25622868|In contrast to studies on aboveground processes, the effect of species diversity on belowground productivity and fine-root regrowth after disturbance is still poorly studied in forests. In 12 old-growth broad-leaved forest stands, we tested the hypotheses that (i) the productivity and recovery rate (regrowth per standing biomass) of the fine-root system (root diameter < 2 mm) increase with increasing tree species diversity, and that (ii) the seasonality of fine-root biomass and necromass is more pronounced in pure than in tree species-rich stands as a consequence of non-synchronous root biomass peaks of the different species. We investigated stands with 1, 3, and 5 dominant tree species growing under similar soil and climate conditions for changes in fine-root biomass and necromass during a 12-month period and estimated fine-root productivity with two independent approaches (ingrowth cores, sequential coring). According to the analysis of 360 ingrowth cores, fine-root growth into the root-free soil increased with tree species diversity from 72 g m y in the monospecific plots to 166 g m y in the 5-species plots, indicating an enhanced recovery rate of the root system after soil disturbance with increasing species diversity (0.26, 0.34, and 0.51 y in 1-, 3-, and 5-species plots, respectively). Fine-root productivity as approximated by the sequential coring data also indicated a roughly threefold increase from the monospecific to the 5-species stand. We found no indication of a more pronounced seasonality of fine-root mass in species-poor as compared to species-rich stands. We conclude that species identification on the fine root level, as conducted here, may open new perspectives on tree species effects on root system dynamics. Our study produced first evidence in support of the hypothesis that the fine-root systems of more diverse forest stands are more productive and recover more rapidly after soil disturbance than that of species-poor forests.
40296371|Using the Ecopath with Ecosim software, a trophic structure model of the Beibu Gulf was constructed to explore the energy flows and provide a snapshot of the ecosystem operations. Input data were mainly from the trawl survey data collected from October 1998 to September 1999 and related literatures. The impacts of various fishing pressure on the biomass were examined by simulation at different fishing mortality rates. The model consists of 20 functional groups (boxes), each representing organisms with a similar role in the food web, and only covers the major trophic flows in the Beibu Gulf ecosystem. It was found that the food web of the Beibu Gulf was dominated by the primary producers path, and phytoplankton was the primary producer mostly used as a food source. The fractional trophic levels ranged from 1.0 to 4.02, and the marine mammals occupied the highest trophic level. Using network analysis, the ecosystem network was mapped into a linear food chain, and six discrete trophic levels were found with a mean transfer efficiency of 11.2%. The Finn cycling index was 9.73%. The path length was 1.821. The omnivory index was 0.197. The ecosystem had some degree of instability due to exploitation and other human activities, according to Odum's theory of ecosystem development. A 10-year simulation was performed for each fishery scenario. The fishing mortality rate was found to have a strong impact on the biomass. By keeping the fishing mortality rate at the current level for all fishing sectors, scenario 1 had a drastic decrease in the large fish groups. The biomass of the small and medium pelagic fish would increase to some extent. The biomass of the small and low trophic level species, jellyfish, prawns and benthic crustaceans would be stable. The total biomass of the fishery resources would have a 10% decrease from the current biomass after 10 years. In contrast, the reduced fishing mortality rate induced the recovery of biomass (scenarios 2-4). In scenario 2, the biomass of the large demersal fish and the large pelagic fish would increase to over 16 times and 10 times, respectively, of their current level. In scenario 4, the biomass of the large pelagic fish would increase to over 3 times of its current level. The total biomass of the fish groups, especially the high trophic level groups, would become significantly higher after 10 years, which illustrates the contribution on biomass recovery by relaxing the fishing pressure.
40603425|Elevated N deposition is continuing on many forested landscapes around the world and our understanding of ecosystem response is incomplete.Soil processes, especially nitrification, are critical. Many studies of soil N transformations have focused on identifying relationships within a single watershed but these results are often not transferable. We studied 10 small forested research watersheds in the northeastern USA to determine if there were common factors related to soil ammonification and nitrification. Vegetation varied between mixed northern hardwoods and mixed conifers. Watershed surface soils (Oa or A horizons) were sampled at grid or transect points and analyzed for a suite of chemical characteristics. At each sampling point, vegetation and topographic metrics (field and GIS-based) were also obtained. Results were examined by watershed averages (n = 10), seasonal/watershed averages (n = 28), and individual sampling points (n = 608). Using both linear and tree regression techniques, the proportion of conifer species was the single best predictor of nitrification rates, with lower rates at higher conifer dominance. Similar to other studies, the soil C/N ratio was also a good predictor and was well correlated with conifer dominance. Unlike other studies, the presence of Acer saccharum was not by itself a strong predictor, but was when combined with the presence of Betula alleghaniensis.Topographic metrics (slope, aspect, relative elevation, and the topographic index) were not related to N transformation rates across the watersheds. Although found to be significant in other studies, neither soil pH, Ca nor Al was related to nitrification. Results showed a strong relationship between dominant vegetation, soil C, and soil C/N.
25470348|A presumed value of shallow-habitat enhanced pelagic productivity derives from the principle that in nutrient-rich aquatic systems phytoplankton growth rate is controlled by light availability, which varies inversely with habitat depth. We measured a set of biological indicators across the gradient of habitat depth within the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta (California) to test the hypothesis that plankton biomass, production, and pelagic energy flow also vary systematically with habitat depth. Results showed that phytoplankton biomass and production were only weakly related to phytoplankton growth rates whereas other processes (transport, consumption) were important controls. Distribution of the invasive clam Corbicula fluminea was patchy, and heavily colonized habitats all supported low phytoplankton biomass and production and functioned as food sinks. Surplus primary production in shallow, uncolonized habitats provided potential subsidies to neighboring recipient habitats. Zooplankton in deeper habitats, where grazing exceeded phytoplankton production, were likely supported by significant fluxes of phytoplankton biomass from connected donor habitats. Our results provide three important lessons for ecosystem science: (a) in the absence of process measurements, derived indices provide valuable information to improve our mechanistic understanding of ecosystem function and to benefit adaptive management strategies; (b) the benefits of some ecosystem functions are displaced by water movements, so the value of individual habitat types can only be revealed through a regional perspective that includes connectedness among habitats; and (c) invasive species can act as overriding controls of habitat function, adding to the uncertainty of management outcomes.
40928216|Rising atmospheric CO concentration will affect belowground processes and forest function. However, the direction and magnitude of change for many soil processes are unknown. We used minirhizotrons to observe fine root and fungal dynamics in response to elevated CO in a model regenerating longleaf pine community in open-top chambers. The model community consisted of five plant species common to xeric sandhills longleaf pine stands: Pinus palustris, Quercus margaretta, Aristida strkta, Crotalaria rotundifolia, and Asclepias tuberosa. Elevated CO significantly increased both fine root and mycorrhizal tip standing crop by more than 50% in the deeper soil horizon (17-34 cm). Rhizomorph standing crop was nearly doubled in both deep and shallow soil (P= 0.04). Survivorship results for fine roots and rhizomorphs varied between soil depths. Fine root survivorship was likely influenced more by changes in community composition and species interactions driven by elevated CO rather than by direct effects of elevated CO on the fine roots of individual species. In this system, it appears that elevated CO led to a greater reliance on fungal symbionts to meet additional nutrient requirements rather than substantially increased root growth.
25053866|Lake-level fluctuations are common in the North American Great Plains region, where large-scale climate systems (El Nio, the Pacific Decadal Oscillation) and periodic droughts cause substantial hydrologic variability in both summer and winter. To date, most such research has focused on the effects of summer droughts on prairie lake ecosystems; therefore, we studied the impact of water-level decline during winter on ecosystem structure and function. Specifically, we hypothesized that lower lake levels during winter would increase anoxia, freezing and scouring of benthos, fish kills, herbivory by zooplankton, and nutrient release from sediments. In addition, we tested the hypothesis that winter droughts may initiate a switch between alternative stable states (turbid, clear). Physical, chemical, and biological variables were monitored from 1996 to 2001 in both Wascana Lake, which experienced a 50% decline in lake level, and Buffalo Pound Lake, where water levels were constant. A combination of before-after-control-impact (BACI) and multivariate analyses showed that drawdown resulted in elevated
3658732|This paper proposes a hypothesis that relates biodiversity, community biomass, and ecosystem function to a gradient of stress. According to this hypothesis, biodiversity has a low threshold of response to stress, whereas biomass and function are stable or increase under low to moderate stress and decrease only under high stress. This hypothesis was tested by examining communities of primary producers in streams under stress from mine drainage in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado, USA. Mine drainage exerts chemical stress (low pH, dissolved metals) as well as physical stress (deposition of metal oxides) on stream biota. Diversity of primary producers was usually more sensitive to stress from mine drainage than community biomass (chlorophyll a) or primary production. Diversity was negatively related to all stresses from mine drainage, but it was especially low in streams with low pH or high concentration of dissolved zinc. Biomass and production were high in streams with only chemical stress, but they were often low in streams with physical stress caused by metal oxide deposition. Stream sites with aluminum oxide deposition usually had very little algal biomass. The rate of metal oxide deposition, presence of aluminum oxides, and pH together explained 65% of the variation in biomass. The rate of net primary production was highly correlated with biomass and had a similar response to stress from mine drainage. Overall, chemical stresses (low pH, high concentration of zinc) generally led to the hypothesized trends in our model of ecosystems under stress. Physical stress (deposition of metal oxides), however, led to variable responses, and often decreased biomass and function even at low intensity, contrary to the original hypothesis. Thus, the nature of ecosystem response to stress may differ for chemical and physical stresses.
40603653|Paniculate organic matter transported from rivers to estuaries (POM R ) varies quantitatively and qualitatively across estuaries; however, a lack of comparative studies poses a challenge in general understanding of responses of estuarine food webs to POM R input. We studied 20 estuarine tidal flats of the Pacific Northwest coast of North America, with watershed areas ranging from 7 to 8000 km. We used carbon-stable isotope (C) to test the hypothesis that the nutritional contribution of P0M R to macrobenthos is proportional to relative abundances of POM R in tidal flat sediments. The predominant origin of total POM (TPOM) in tidal flat sediments generally shifted from marine-origin POM (POM M ) to POM R as watershed area increased; however, terrestrial-origin POM R with high C/N predominated sediment TPOM even in estuaries with small watershed areas. Some macrobenthos species assimilated POM sources in proportion to sediment TPOM composition, and incorporated POM R in POM R -predominant sediments. These species were considered to have low food selectivity; however, the relative nutritional contribution of POM R to these macrobenthos was still lower than the fraction of POM R in sediment TPOM. Other species disproportionately utilized POM M and/or benthic microalgae regardless of the relative abundance of P0M R , indicating their high food selectivity. The species-specific, low-or highfood selectivity was likely linked with depositfeeding and filter-feeding, respectively. Hence, our hypothesis was supported conditionally. Our findings indicate that watershed area, relative abundance of POM R in an estuary, and food selectivity of estuarine species are key factors controlling the tightness of linkage between watersheds and estuarine food webs.
43677517|Ecosystems in the tropics are predicted to have stronger responses to nutrient enrichment, greater diversity, and more intense biotic interactions than in temperate areas. Mangrove forests, which occur across a broad biogeographic range from warm temperate to tropical, provide a unique opportunity to test these hypotheses by investigating the responses of herbivores to nutrient enrichment in temperate versus tropical latitudes. Mangroves are complex intertidal ecosystems with spatial differences in structure and diversity along tidal gradients and are threatened globally by human activities including nutrient over-enrichment. In this study, we used long-term fertilization experiments at the Indian River Lagoon, FL; Twin Cays, Belize; and Bocas del Toro, Panam to determine how increased nutrients impact herbivore abundance and herbivory of Rhizophora mangle at the tree, forest, and regional scales. At these locations, which span approximately 2185 km and 18.4 of latitude, we fertilized individual trees with one of three treatments (Control, +N, +P) in two zones (fringe, scrub) along transects perpendicular to the shoreline and measured their responses for 4 years. Herbivory was measured as folivory, loss of yield, and tissue mining. Although nutrient enrichment altered plant growth, leaf traits, and nutrient dynamics, these variables had little effect on folivory at any location. Our results did not support the prediction that herbivory and per capita consumption are greatest at the most tropical location. Instead, folivory was highest at the most temperate location and lowest at the intermediate location. Folivory was generally higher in the fringe than in the scrub zone, but the pattern varied by location, herbivore, and nutrient treatment. Folivory by a dominant herbivore, Aratus pisonii, decreased from the highest to the lowest latitude. Our data suggest that factors controlling population dynamics of A. pisonii cascade to the mangrove canopy, linking herbivory to crab densities.
41505870|Urban areas are growing in size and importance; however, we are only beginning to understand how the process of urbanization influences ecosystem dynamics. In particular, there have been few assessments of how the land-use history and age of residential soils influence carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) pools and fluxes, especially at depth. In this study, we used 1-m soil cores to evaluate soil profile characteristics and C and N pools in 32 residential home lawns that differed by previous land use and age, but had similar soil types. These were compared to soils from eight forested reference sites. Residential soils had significantly higher C and N densities than nearby forested soils of similar types (6.95 vs. 5.44 kg C/m and 552 vs. 403 g N/m, P < 0.05). Results from our chronosequence suggest that soils at residential sites that were previously in agriculture have the potential to accumulate C (0.082 kg C/m/y) and N (8.3 g N/m/y) rapidly after residential development. Rates of N accumulation at these sites were similar in magnitude to estimated fertilizer N inputs, confirming a high capacity for N retention. Residential sites that were forested prior to development had higher C and N densities than present-day forests, but our chronosequence did not reveal a significant pattern of increasing C and N density over time in previously forested sites. These data suggest that soils in residential areas on former agricultural land have a significant capacity to sequester C and N. Given the large area of these soils, they are undoubtedly significant in regional C and N balances.
43677532|Production, transport, and degradation of terrestrial dissolved organic matter (DOM) influence carbon (C) and nutrient cycling in both soils and down-stream aquatic ecosystems. Here, we assessed the impacts of wildfire on DOM production, composition, and reactivity (biodegradation versus UV degradation) from soils of upland forest and peatland ecosystems. Soil C solubility was lowest for upland char samples, highest from surface soils in unburned spruce stands and decreased with a higher degree of peat humification regardless of fire history. Soil nitrogen (N) became relatively more soluble in both upland and peat soils post-fire, as leachate C/N decreased. Biodegradability was lower for DOM leachates from burned than unburned soils, both in upland and peatland sites. Several DOM composition indices were related to biodegradability; with the strongest relationship for specific UV absorbance at 254 nm (indicator of aromaticity). Parallel factor analysis revealed distinctive characteristics of leachates from burned soils and char that were related to low biodegradability and high UV-mediated losses. Relative to dark incubations, incubation under UV conditions led to greater C losses for highly aromatic leachates, but reduced losses for leachates with low aromaticity. This suggests that UV-mediated degradation could provide a pathway for highly stable terrestrial organic matter, including char, to become rapidly mineralized and released to the atmosphere once it reaches aquatic ecosystems in dissolved form. Together our results demonstrate that wildfire can potentially alter both turnover of DOM in terrestrial soils and linkages between terrestrial and aquatic C cycling through its influence on terrestrial DOM production and composition.
23253689|Regime shifts in stochastic ecosystem models are often preceded by early warning signals such as increased variance and increased autocorrelation in time series. There is considerable theoretical support for early warning signals, but there is a critical lack of field observations to test the efficacy of early warning signals at spatial and temporal scales relevant for ecosystem management. Conditional heteroskedasticity is persistent periods of high and low variance that may be a powerful leading indicator of regime shift. We evaluated conditional heteroskedasticity as an early warning indicator by applying moving window conditional heteroskedasticity tests to time series of chlorophyll-a and fish catches derived from a whole-lake experiment designed to create a regime shift. There was significant conditional heteroskedasticity at least a year prior to the regime shift in the manipulated lake but there was no significant conditional heteroskedasticity in an adjacent reference lake. Conditional heteroskedasticity was an effective leading indicator of regime shift for the ecosystem manipulation.
25622901|In southern California, wildfire is a ubiquitous agent shaping plant communities. Although fire impacts have been widely studied in chaparral-covered uplands, few data are available regarding fire and riparian vegetation. This study provides an example of the impact of a severe fire on riparian habitat. Plant species found in southern California gallery forests are typically adapted to maintaining populations following flood disturbances; we seek to determine whether structural and compositional changes following fire here demonstrate a similar quasi-equilibrium response. We sampled 65 quadrats on 11 transects along two streams in the Los Padres National Forest to characterize tree species sizeclass distributions before and after the 2002 Wolf Fire. We tested whether species exhibited differential patterns of survivorship and regeneration following the fire, and also tested for spatial variability in mortality within the floodplain. Alnus rhombifolia dominated the pre-fire forest, but experienced severe mortality in the fire and showed very limited resprouting after 3 years. Other prominent taxa (Populus, Salix, Quercus spp.) also lost considerable standing basal area, but had substantially greater rates of resprouting, resulting in a dramatically altered post-fire vegetation composition and structure. Fire impacts did not vary with landform position, leading to a distinctive homogenizing disturbance that contrasts with the spatially zoned and relatively stabilizing compositional influence that flood events have in this same riparian setting.
3658795| Theories of forest nitrogen (N) cycling suggest that stream N losses should increase in response to chronic elevated N deposition and as forest nutrient requirements decline with age. The latter theory was supported initially by measurements of stream NO
27823740|Efforts to conserve, restore, or otherwise manage large rivers and the services they provide are hindered by limited understanding of the functional dynamics of these systems. This shortcoming is especially evident with regard to trophic structure and energy flow. We used natural abundances of carbon and nitrogen isotopes to examine patterns of material flow in ten large-river food webs characterized by different landscape-scale hydrologic characteristics (low-gradient river, high-gradient river, river stretches downstream of reservoirs, and reservoirs), and tested predictions from three ecosystem concepts commonly applied to large-rivers: The River Continuum Concept, The Flood Pulse Concept and the Riverine Productivity Model. Carbon derived from aquatic C3 plants and phytoplankton were the dominant energy sources supporting secondary consumers across the ten large-river food webs examined, but relative contributions differed significantly among landscape types. For low-gradient river food webs, aquatic C3 plants were the principal carbon source, contributing as much as 80% of carbon assimilated by top consumers, with phytoplankton secondarily important. The estimated relative importance of phytoplankton was greatest for food webs of reservoirs and river stretches downriver from impoundments, although aquatic C3 plants contributed similar amounts in both landscape types. Highest 99th percentile source contribution estimates for C4 plants and filamentous algae (both approximately 40%) were observed for high-gradient river food webs. Our results for low-gradient rivers supported predictions of the Flood Pulse Concept, whereas results for the three other landscape types supported the Riverine Productivity Model to varying degrees. Incorporation of landscape-scale hydrologic or geomorphic characteristics, such as river slope or floodplain width, may promote integration of fluvial ecosystem concepts. Expanding these models to include hydrologically impacted landscapes should lead to a more holistic understanding of ecosystem processes in large-river systems.
3658932|Numerous pollen records provide evidence for the widespread range expansion of Alnus throughout Alaska and adjacent Canada during the middle Holocene. Because Alnus can fix atmospheric N
3658888|Ecosystems may exist in more than one state. This provocative ecological theory was initially developed and addressed largely through modeling studies, but over the last 2 decades a number of diverse ecosystems have been shown to display alternate states. Here I present data from 30 lakes located in a relatively limited geographic region (Alberta, Canada) to seek evidence for alternate states in shallow prairie lakes. The lakes that I surveyed fell into the following three clusters based on their turbidity and maximum depth: (a) deep, relatively clear dimictic lakes, (b) shallow clear polymictic lakes, and (c) shallow turbid polymictic lakes. The shallow lakes had similar proportions of lake bottom supporting the growth of rooted submerged macrophytes, yet the macrophyte biomass was approximately five times higher in shallow clear lakes than in shallow turbid lakes. An analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) revealed that there was a significantly higher concentration of chlorophyll per unit of dissolved phosphorus in shallow lakes classified as turbid compared to those classified as clear. A separate ANCOVA also showed that the higher turbidity in the turbid lakes was not due simply to higher
41505989|In Mediterranean-continental regions, changes in land use are leading to the expansion of valuable habitats like endemic Juniperus thurifera woodlands, but the impact of reduced rainfall, due to climate change, on this expansion remains uncertain. We assessed the early performance of J. thurifera in different global change scenarios with and without facilitation. Saplings were transplanted in three ecosystems types with different previous land use (woodlands, former agricultural fields, and former livestock pastures), microhabitats (open vs. understory of adult trees) and were subjected to two watering regimens. We characterized the abiotic environment and measured survival, growth and two ecophysiological parameters. Former livestock pastures were the least favorable ecosystem, where the nursing effect was greatest. Former agricultural fields had the highest survival, but were more sensitive than woodlands to water scarcity. Reduced rainfall decreased photochemical efficiency, particularly in the least favorable scenarios, but did not affect survival. Water use efficiency enhanced growth under the canopy, but not in the open, whereas photochemical efficiency enhanced growth and survival more in the open. Facilitation was critical for effective recruitment in the harshest scenarios: former livestock pastures and reduced rainfall. Comparison with previous studies suggests that establishment depends on infrequent wet episodes. In Mediterranean ecosystems, changes in land use and climate change are leading to woodland expansion due to the modulating effect of facilitation of the oncoming adverse drier conditions. Nevertheless, the positive effect of facilitation and the negative impact of aridity on tree recruitment are strongly influenced by previous land-use history.
40928213|Boreal and subarctic peatlands have been extensively studied for their major role in the global carbon balance. However, study efforts have so far neglected the contribution of these ecosystems to the non-methane biogenic volatile organic compound (BVOC) emissions, which are important in the atmospheric chemistry and feedbacks on climate change. We aimed at estimating the BVOC emissions from a subarctic peatland in northern Finland. Furthermore, our aim was to assess how these emissions are affected by enhanced UV-B radiation, the amount of which has increased especially at high latitudes as a result of stratospheric ozone depletion. The contribution of BVOC emissions to the total net carbon exchange and correlations between the emission of different BVOCs and net ecosystem CO exchange, CH emission, total green leaf area, and abiotic factors were also studied. The UV-B exposure, simulating a 20% depletion of stratospheric ozone, was started in 2003, and measurements were performed during the growing seasons of 2006 and 2008. The subarctic peatland proved to be a small source of BVOCs and the dominant moss, Warnstorfla exannulata, emitted a diverse compound spectrum. The water table level exerted a major influence on the BVOC emissions surpassing the effect of enhanced UV-B. In fact, no overall UV-B effect was established on the BVOC emissions, apart from toluene and 1-octene, emissions of which were doubled and tripled by enhanced UV-B in 2008, respectively. The contribution of BVOCs to the total net carbon exchange was below 1 %.
27823746|Using a 50-year-old field experiment, we investigated the effects of the long-term land management practices of repeated burning and grazing on peatland vegetation and carbon dynamics (C). Plant community composition, C stocks in soils and vegetation, and C fluxes of CO2, CH4 and DOC, were measured over an 18-month period. We found that both burning and grazing reduced aboveground C stocks, and that burning reduced C stocks in the surface peat. Both burning and grazing strongly affected vegetation community composition, causing an increase in graminoids and a decrease in ericoid subshrubs and bryophytes relative to unburned and ungrazed controls; this effect was especially pronounced in burned treatments. Soil microbial properties were unaffected by grazing and showed minor responses to burning, in that the C:N ratio of the microbial biomass increased in burned relative to unburned treatments. Increases in the gross ecosystem CO2 fluxes of respiration and photosynthesis were observed in burned and grazed treatments relative to controls. Here, the greatest effects were seen in the burning treatment, where the mean increase in gross fluxes over the experimental period was greater than 40%. Increases in gross CO2 fluxes were greatest during the summer months, suggesting an interactive effect of land use and climate on ecosystem C cycling. Collectively, our results indicate that long-term management of peatland has marked effects on ecosystem C dynamics and CO2 flux, which are primarily related to changes in vegetation community structure.
25470398|Spatially heterogeneous environments are generally characterized by nested landscape patterns with resource aggregations on several scales. Empirical studies indicate that such nested landscape patterns impose selection constraints on the perceptive scales of animals, but the underlying selection mechanisms are unclear. We investigated the selection dynamics of perceptive scale within a spatial resource utilization model, where the environment is characterized by its resource distribution and species differ in their perceptive scales and resource preemption capabilities. Using three model landscapes with various resource distributions, we found that the optimal perceptive scale is determined by scale-specific attributes of the landscape pattern and that the number of coexisting species increases with the number of characteristic scales. Based on the results of this model, we argue that resource aggregations on different scales act as distinct resources and that animal species of particular perceptive scales are superior in utilizing resource aggregations of comparable spatial extent. Due to the allometric relationship between body size and perceptive scale, such fitness difference might result in discontinuous body mass distributions.
40296299|The ability of an ecosystem to retain anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition is dependent upon plant and soil sinks for N, the strengths of which may be altered by chronic atmospheric N deposition. Sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.), the dominant overstory tree in northern hardwood forests of the Lake States region, has a limited capacity to take up and assimilate NO. However, it is uncertain whether long-term exposure to NO deposition might induce NO uptake by this ecologically important overstory tree. Here, we investigate whether 10 years of experimental NO deposition (30 kg N ha y) could induce NO uptake and assimilation in overstory sugar maple (approximately 90 years old), which would enable this species to function as a direct sink for atmospheric NO deposition. Kinetic parameters for NH4 + and NO uptake in fine roots, as well as leaf and root NO reductase activity, were measured under conditions of ambient and experimental NO deposition in four sugar maple-dominated stands spanning the geographic distribution of northern hardwood forests in the Upper Lake States. Chronic NO 3 ~ deposition did not alter the V max or K m for NOand NH uptake nor did it influence  reductase activity in leaves and fine roots. Moreover, the mean V max for NH uptake (5.15 nmol N g; h;) was eight times greater than the Vmax for NO uptake (0.63 mol N g; h;), indicating a much greater physiological capacity for NH uptake in this species. Additionally, NO reductase activity was lower than most values for woody plants previously reported in the literature, further indicating a low physiological potential for NO assimilation in sugar maple. Our results demonstrate that chronic NO deposition has not induced the physiological capacity for NO uptake and assimilation by sugar maple, making this dominant species an unlikely direct sink for anthropogenic NO deposition.
41505992|Despite efforts to understand the factors that determine soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks in terrestrial ecosystems, there remains little information on how SOC turnover time varies among ecosystems, and how SOC turnover time and C input via plant production, differentially contribute to regional patterns of SOC stocks. In this study, we determined SOC stocks (gC m) and used soil radiocarbon measurements to derive mean SOC turnover time (years) for 0-10 cm mineral soil at ten sites across North America that included arctic tundra, northern boreal, northern and southern hardwood, subtropical, and tropical forests, tallgrass and shortgrass prairie, mountain grassland, and desert. SOC turnover time ranged 36-fold among ecosystems, and was much longer for cold tundra and northern boreal forest and dry desert (1277-2151 years) compared to other warmer and wetter habitats (59-353 years). Two measures of C input, net aboveground production (NAP), determined from the literature, and a radiocarbon-derived measure of C flowing to the 0-10 cm mineral pool, I, were positively and SOC turnover time was negatively associated with mean annual evapotranspiration (ET) among ecosystems. The best fit model generated from the independent variables NAP, I, annual mean temperature and precipitation, ET, and clay content revealed that SOC stock was best explained by the single variable I. Overall, these findings indicate the primary role that C input and the secondary role that C stabilization play in determining SOC stocks at large regional spatial scales and highlight the large vulnerability of the global SOC pool to climate change.
40296305|Regular spatial patterns of sharply bounded ridges and hollows are frequently observed in peatlands and ask for an explanation in terms of underlying structuring processes. Simulation models suggest that spatial regularity of peatland patterns could be driven by an evapotranspiration-induced scale-dependent feedback (locally positive, longer-range negative) between ridge vegetation and nutrient availability. The sharp boundaries between ridges and hollows could be induced by a positive feedback between net rate of peat formation and acrotelm thickness. Theory also predicts how scale-dependent and positive feedbacks drive underlying patterns in nutrients, hydrology, and hydrochemistry, but these predictions have not yet been tested empirically. The aim of this study was to provide an empirical test for the theoretical predictions; therefore, we measured underlying patterns in nutrients, hydrology, and hydrochemistry across a maze-patterned peatland in the Great Vasyugan Bog, Siberia. The field data corroborated predicted patterns as induced by scaledependent feedback; nutrient concentrations were higher on ridges than in hollows. Moreover, diurnal dynamics in water table level clearly corresponded to evapotranspiration and showed that water levels in two ridges were lower than in the hollow in between. Also, the data on hydrochemistry suggested that evapotranspiration rates were higher on ridges. The bimodal frequency distribution in acrotelm thickness indicated sharp boundaries between ridges and hollows, supporting the occurrence of a positive feedback. Moreover, nutrient content in plant tissue was most strongly associated with acrotelm thickness, supporting the view that positive feedback further amplifies ridge-hollow differences in nutrient status. Our measurements are consistent with the hypothesis that the combination of scale-dependent and positive feedback induces peatland patterning.
3658596| Climate and biophysical regulation of terrestrial plant production and interannual responses to anomalous events were investigated using the NASA Ames model version of CASA (Carnegie-Ames-Stanford Approach) in a transient simulation mode. This ecosystem model has been calibrated for simulations driven by satellite vegetation index data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) over the mid-1980s. Relatively large net source fluxes of carbon were estimated from terrestrial vegetation about 6 months to 1 year following El Nio events of 1983 and 1987, whereas the years 1984 and 1988 showed a drop in net primary production (NPP) of 1-2 Pg (
3658796|Current natural resource management seldom takes the ecosystem functions performed by organisms that move between systems into consideration. Organisms that actively move in the landscape and connect habitats in space and time are here termed "mobile links." They are essential components in the dynamics of ecosystem development and ecosystem resilience (that is, buffer capacity and opportunity for reorganization) that provide ecological memory (that is, sources for reorganization after disturbance). We investigated the effects of such mobile links on ecosystem functions in aquatic as well as terrestrial environments. We identify three main functional categories: resource, genetic, and process linkers and suggest that the diversity within functional groups of mobile links is a central component of ecosystem resilience. As the planet becomes increasingly dominated by humans, the magnitude, frequency, timing, spatial extent, rate, and quality of such organism-mediated linkages are being altered. We argue that global environmental change can lead to (a) the decline of essential links in functional groups providing pollination, seed dispersal, and pest control; (b) the linking of previously disconnected areas, for example, the spread of vector-borne diseases and invasive species; and (c) the potential for existing links to become carriers of toxic substances, such as persistent organic compounds. We conclude that knowledge of interspatial exchange via mobile links needs to be incorporated into management and policy-making decisions in order to maintain ecosystem resilience and hence secure the capacity of ecosystems to supply the goods and services essential to society.
40928229|To ameliorate local and coastal eutrophication, management agencies are increasingly turning to wetland restoration. A large portion of restoration is occurring in areas that were drained for agriculture. To recover wetland function these areas must be reflooded and disturbances to soils, including high nutrient content due to past fertilizer use, loss of organic matter and soil compaction, must be reversed. Here, we quantified nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) retention and transformation in a unique large-scale (440 ha) restored wetland in the North Carolina coastal plain, the Timberlake Restoration Project (TLRP). For 2 years following restoration, we quantified water and nutrient budgets for this former agricultural field. We anticipated that TLRP would export high concentrations of inorganic P immediately following reflooding, while retaining or transforming inorganic N. In the first 2 years after a return to the precipitation and wind-driven hydrology, TLRP retained or transformed 97% of NO-N, 32% of TDN, 25% of NH-N, and 53% of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) delivered from inflows and precipitation, while exporting 20% more dissolved organic nitrogen (DON), and 13% more total P (inorganic, organic, and paniculate P) than inputs. Areal mass retention rates of N and P at TLRP were low compared to other restored wetlands; however, the site efficiently retained pulses of fertilizer NO-N derived from an upstream farm. This capacity for retaining N pulses indicates that the potential nutrient removal capacity of TLRP is much higher than measured annual rates. Our results illustrate the importance of considering both organic and inorganic forms of N and P when assessing the benefits of wetland restoration. We suggest that for wetland restoration to be an efficient tool in the amelioration of coastal eutrophication a better understanding of the coupled movement of the various forms of N and P is necessary.
25053815|Soils represent the primary biotic sink for atmospheric methane
27823662|Eutrophication due to high anthropogenic nutrient loading has greatly impacted ecological processes in marine coastal waters and, therefore, much effort has been put into reducing nitrogen and phosphorus discharges into European and North-American waters. Nutrient enrichment usually resulted in increase of biomass and production of phytoplankton and microphytobenthos, often coinciding with shifts in species composition within the primary producer community. Consequences of increasing eutrophication for higher trophic levels are still being disputed, and even less is known about the consequences of nutrient reduction on coastal food webs. Here, we present 30-year concurrent field observations on phytoplankton, macrozoobenthos and estuarine birds in the Dutch Wadden Sea, which has been subject to decades of nutrient enrichment and subsequent nutrient reduction. We demonstrate that long-term variations in limiting nutrients (phosphate and silicon) were weakly correlated with biomass and more strongly with community structures of phytoplankton, macrozoobenthos and estuarine birds. Although we cannot conclusively determine if, and if so to what extent, nutrient enrichment and subsequent nutrient reduction actually contributed to the concurrent trends in these communities, it appears likely that part of the variance in the studied coastal communities is related to changes in nutrient loads. Our results imply that nutrient reduction measures should not ignore the potential consequences for policies aimed at bird conservation and exploitation of marine living resources.
40296321|To date, studies examining the impact of agriculture on freshwater systems have been spatially confined (that is, single drainage basin or regional level). Across regions, there are considerable differences in a number of factors, including geology, catchment morphometry, and hydrology that affect water quality. Given this heterogeneity, it is unknown whether agricultural activities have a pervasive impact on lake trophic state across large spatial scales. To address this issue, we tested whether the proportion of agricultural land in a catchment (% Agr) could explain a significant portion of the variation in lake water quality at a broad inter-regional scale. As shallow, productive systems have been shown to be particularly susceptible to eutrophication, we further investigated how lake mean depth modulates the relationship between % Agr and lake total phosphorus (TP) concentration. We applied both traditional metaanalytic techniques and more sophisticated linear mixed-effects models to a dataset of 358 temperate lakes that spanned an extensive spatial gradient (5E to 73W) to address these issues. With metaanalytical techniques we detected an across-study correlation between TP and % Agr of 0.53 (onetailed P-value = 0.021). The across-study correlation coefficient between TP and mean depth was substantially lower (r=-0.38; P= 0.057). With linear mixed-effects modeling, we detected amongstudy variability, which arises from differences in pre-impact (background) lake trophic state and in the relationship between lake mean depth and lake TP. To our knowledge, this is the first quantitative synthesis that defines the influence of agriculture on lake water quality at such a broad spatial scale. Syntheses such as these are required to define the global relationship between agricultural land-use and water quality.
3658777|Nitrogen (N) has been considered a limiting nutrient to many aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. However, human activity has resulted in increased atmospheric N deposition worldwide such that N pollution is now altering ecosystem function in many locations. Research on atmospheric deposition has focused primarily on inorganic nitrogen (DIN;
41505872|Agricultural drainage is thought to alter greenhouse gas emissions from temperate peatlands, with CH emissions reduced in favor of greater CO losses. Attention has largely focussed on C trace gases, and less is known about the impacts of agricultural conversion on NO or global warming potential. We report greenhouse gas fluxes (CH, CO, NO) from a drained peatland in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, California, USA currently managed as a rangeland (that is, pasture). This ecosystem was a net source of CH (25.8  1.4 mg CH-C m d) and NO (6.4  0.4 mg NO-N m d). Methane fluxes were comparable to those of other managed temperate peatlands, whereas NO fluxes were very high; equivalent to fluxes from heavily fertilized agroecosystems and tropical forests. Ecosystem scale CH fluxes were driven by "hotspots" (drainage ditches) that accounted for less than 5% of the land area but more than 84% of emissions. Methane fluxes were unresponsive to seasonal fluctuations in climate and showed minimal temporal variability. Nitrous oxide fluxes were more homogeneously distributed throughout the landscape and responded to fluctuations in environmental variables, especially soil moisture. Elevated CH and NO fluxes contributed to a high overall ecosystem global warming potential (531 g CO-C equivalents m y), with non-CO trace gas fluxes offsetting the atmospheric "cooling" effects of photoassimilation. These data suggest that managed Delta peatlands are potentially large regional sources of greenhouse gases, with spatial heterogeneity in soil moisture modulating the relative importance of each gas for ecosystem global warming potential.
23253686|In many coastal areas, marine ecosystems have shifted into contrasting states having reduced ecosystem services (hereafter called degraded). Such degraded ecosystems may be slow to revert to their original state due to new ecological feedbacks that reinforce the degraded state. A better understanding of the way human actions influence the strength and direction of feedbacks, how different feedbacks could interact, and at what scales they operate, may be necessary in some cases for successful management of marine ecosystems. Here we synthesize interactions of critical feedbacks of the degraded states from six globally distinct biomes: coral reefs, kelp forests, seagrass beds, shallow soft sediments, oyster reefs, and coastal pelagic food webs. We explore to what extent current management captures these feedbacks and propose strategies for how and when (that is, windows of opportunity) to influence feedbacks in ways to break the resilience of the degraded ecosystem states. We conclude by proposing some challenges for future research that could improve our understanding of these issues and emphasize that management of degraded marine states will require a broad socialecological approach to succeed.
3658870|To assess the long-term effects of atmospheric deposition on forest floor chemical composition, we took quantitative samplings of L-(Oi), F-(Oe), and H-(Oa) layers at an old-growth sugar maple-yellow birch stand on a till soil at the Turkey Lakes Watershed near Lake Superior, Ontario, Canada, in 1981 and 1996. We then assessed these samples for contents of organic matter (OM), total N, K, Ca, Mg, S, and Na, and exchangeable NH
41505962|Evapotranspiration (ET) from tropical ecosystems is a major constituent of the global land-atmosphere water flux and strongly influences the global hydrological cycle. Most previous studies of ecosystem ET have been conducted predominantly in tropical forests, and only few observations cover other tropical land-use types such as pastures, croplands, savannas or plantations. The objectives of our study were: (1) to estimate daily, monthly, and annual ET budgets in a tropical pasture and an adjacent afforestation site, (2) to assess diurnal and seasonal patterns of ET, (3) to investigate environmental controls of ET, and (4) to evaluate the soil infiltration potential. We performed eddy covariance measurements of ecosystem ET in Sardinilla (Panama) from 2007 to 2009. Daily ET (2.6  1.0 mm day) was significantly lower in the pasture compared to the afforestation site (3.0  0.9 mm day). The highest ET was observed during the wet-dry transition period in both ecosystems. However, differences in daily ET between sites were relatively small, particularly during the wet season. Radiation was the main environmental control of ET at both sites, however, we observed considerable seasonal variation in the strength of this control, which was stronger during the wet compared to the dry season. In 2008, total annual ET was only slightly higher for the afforestation (1114 mm y) than the pasture site (1034 mm y). Our results suggest that afforestation of pasture only marginally increases ecosystem-scale ET 6-8 years after establishment. Differences in soil infiltration potentials between our sites seem to explain this pattern.
23501472|Wildfire and clearcutting are two main disturbances in North American forests, but whether root systems may respond differently to such disturbances is unknown. Here, we studied how the dynamics of fine roots ( <2 mm in diameter) varied with stand origins in a boreal forest in northern Ontario, Canada. Fine root biomass increased with stand age, but did not differ between stands originating from fire and clearcutting. By contrast, fine root production, mortality and turnover rates were lower in 3- and 11-year-old clearcut-origin than fire-origin stands, but did not differ in 29-year-old stands of different stand origins. The lower rates of production, mortality, and turnover rates in 3- and 11-year-old clearcut-origin than fire-origin stands are attributable to a lower density of shrubs and herbs and larger nutrient pools after clearcutting than fire. The similarities among 29-year-old stands indicate that the effects of stand origin on fine root processes tend to converge at this time scale. Our results illustrate that time scale is critical for assessing ecosystem responses to disturbances.
3659003|Tsuga heterophylla (western hemlock), a fire-sensitive, late-successional tree species, is an important component of old-growth forests in the Pacific Northwest, USA. In the Oregon Coast Range, however, T. heterophylla occurs at low densities in or is completely absent from many conifer stands. We used a cellular automata-based simulation model to explore the influences of the fire regime and gap disturbances on T. heterophylla dynamics at a landscape scale. The abundance of T. heterophylla in the simulated landscape was particularly sensitive to variation in fire return interval and fire severity. T. heterophylla was less sensitive to canopy gap return interval, probability of recruitment in canopy gaps, and the probability of rare long-distance dispersal events. Relatively short periods of high fire frequency caused a rapid and persistent decline in the amount of T. heterophylla in the landscape. Based on the simulation results, we propose two new hypotheses. The first is that landscape-level constraints imposed by the frequency, severity, and pattern of wildfires will limit the potential for gap-level processes to affect T. heterophylla regeneration patterns at the landscape scale. The second, related hypothesis is that legacies of cumulative fire effects will have a strong influence on the subsequent development of late-successional forest structure.
23253741|Carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) are strongly coupled across ecosystems due to stoichiometrically balanced assimilatory demand as well as dissimilatory processes such as denitrification. Microorganisms mediate these biogeochemical cycles, but how microbial communities respond to environmental changes, such as dissolved organic carbon (DOC) availability, and how those responses impact coupled biogeochemical cycles in streams is not clear. We enriched a stream in central Indiana with labile DOC for 5 days to investigate coupled C and N cycling. Before, and on day 5 of the enrichment, we examined assimilatory uptake and denitrification using whole-stream 15 N-nitrate tracer additions and short-term nitrate releases. Concurrently, we measured bacterial and denitrifier abundance and community structure. We predicted N assimilation and denitrification would be stimulated by the addition of labile C and would be mediated by increases in bacterial activity, abundance, and a shift in community structure. In response to the twofold increase in DOC concentrations in the water column, N assimilation increased throughout the enrichment. Community respiration doubled during the enrichment and was associated with a change in bacterial community structure (based on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the 16S rRNA gene). In contrast, there was little response in denitrification or denitrifier community structure, likely because labile C was assimilated by heterotrophic communities on the stream bed prior to reaching denitrifiers within the sediments. Our results suggest that coupling between C and N in streams involves potentially complex interactions with sediment texture and organic matter, microbial community structure, and possibly indirect biogeochemical pathways.
3658775|Cultural eutrophication of lakes caused by excess phosphorus (P) loading from agricultural areas is a persistent and serious environmental problem. We quantified P flows in a watershed-lake ecosystem using a simple mathematical model that coupled in-lake and upland processes to assess and compare the long-term impacts of various management strategies. Our model compares abatement by in-lake strategies (such as increasing the flux of P from algae to consumers and alum application) with riparian management to decrease P flow and with balancing P budgets at the watershed scale. All of these strategies are effective to some extent. However, only reducing the amount of fertilizer P imported to the watershed will decrease the total P in the system at steady state. Soil P-a large reservoir with slow turnover rate-governs long-term flux to the lake and must be decreased in size to maintain long-term control of eutrophication.
41505869|Ecosystem acidification and eutrophication resulting from increased deposition of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) are issues of increasing global concern. Consequently, costly policy decisions are being implemented to decrease nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions. Although declining DIN deposition along with rapid declines of DIN in surface waters have been reported in parts of Europe, the same observation is just emerging in North America. Here we find a significant decline in bulk deposition NO during the later part of a 28-year record in southcentral Ontario, Canada. Despite high N retention and substantial inter-annual variability in the long-term record due to periods of drought, we find significant declines in annual NO concentrations and export at six out of 11 streams that drain upland-dominated catchments. In contrast, five streams draining primarily wetland-dominated catchments with lower levels of NO show no decreasing trend in NO concentration or export. The rapid response in stream NO to declining atmospheric inputs was observed at sites with historically moderate inputs of DIN (~870 mg m y) in bulk deposition. Topographic features such as slope, and related catchment features including wetland cover, appear to influence which catchments will respond positively to declining DIN deposition. These findings force us to revise our original conceptualization of the N saturation status of these catchments.
27823670|The age-dependent variability of ecosystem carbon (C) fluxes was assessed by measuring the net ecosystem exchange of C (NEE) in five managed forest stands in northern Wisconsin, USA. The study sites ranged in age from 3-year-old clearcut to mature stands (65 years). All stands, except the clearcut, accumulated C over the study period from May to October 2002. Seasonal NEE estimates were 655  17.5 g C m2 in the mature hardwood (MHW), 648  16.8 in the mature red pine (MRP), 195  15.6 in the pine barrens (PB), +128  17.1 in the young hardwood clearcut (YHW), and 313  14.6 in the young red pine (YRP). The age-dependent differences were similar in the hardwood and conifer forests. Even though PB was not part of either the hardwood or conifer chronosequence, and had a different disturbance agent, it still fits the same general age relationship. Higher ecosystem respiration (ER) in the young than in the mature stands was the combined result of earlier soil warming in spring, and higher temperature and greater biological activity in summer, as indicated by temperature-normalized respiration rates. The fire-generated PB had lower ER than the harvest-generated YHW and YRP, where high ER was sustained partly on account of logging residue. During the main growing season, the equivalent of 31 (MHW), 48 (MRP), 68 (PB), 114 (YHW) and 71% (YRP) of daily gross ecosystem production (GEP) was released in ER during the same day. The lower ER:GEP ratio in the mature stands was driven by greater age-dependent changes in ER than GEP. The magnitude of the increase in ER:GEP ratio in spring and fall was interpreted as the extent of the decoupling of ER and GEP. Decoupling (sustained high ER despite decreasing GEP) was observed in YHW, PB and MHW, whereas in coniferous stands (MRP and YRP) the stable ER:GEP ratio suggested preferential use of new photosynthates in ER. The results indicate that a great part of the variation in landscape-level C fluxes can be accounted for by mean stand age and associated parameters, which highlights the need to consider this source of heterogeneity in regional C balance estimates.
23325679|Tundra vegetation is responding rapidly to on-going climate warming. The changes in plant abundance and chemistry might have cascading effects on tundra food webs, but an integrated understanding of how the responses vary between habitats and across environmental gradients is lacking. We assessed responses in plant abundance and plant chemistry to warmer climate, both at species and community levels, in two different habitats. We used a long-term and multisite warming (OTC) experiment in the Scandinavian foresttundra ecotone to investigate (i) changes in plant community composition and (ii) responses in foliar nitrogen, phosphorus, and carbon-based secondary compound concentrations in two dominant evergreen dwarf-shrubs (Empetrum hermaphroditum and Vaccinium vitis-idaea) and two deciduous shrubs (Vaccinium myrtillus and Betula nana). We found that initial plant community composition, and the functional traits of these plants, will determine the responsiveness of the community composition, and thus community traits, to experimental warming. Although changes in plant chemistry within species were minor, alterations in plant community composition drive changes in community-level nutrient concentrations. In view of projected climate change, our results suggest that plant abundance will increase in the future, but nutrient concentrations in the tundra field layer vegetation will decrease. These effects are large enough to have knock-on consequences for major ecosystem processes like herbivory and nutrient cycling. The reduced food quality could lead to weaker trophic cascades and weaker top down control of plant community biomass and composition in the future. However, the opposite effects in forest indicate that these changes might be obscured by advancing tree-line forests.
3658763|We analyzed the spatial heterogeneity in vegetation indices among 13 North American landscapes by using full Landsat Thematic Mapper images. Landscapes varied broadly in the statistical distribution of vegetation indices, but were successfully ordinated by using a measure of central tendency (the mean) and a measure of dispersion (the standard deviation or the coefficient of variation). Differences in heterogeneity among landscapes were explained by their topographic relief and their land cover. Landscape heterogeneity (standard deviation of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index, NDVI) tended to increase linearly with topographic relief (standard deviation of elevation), but landscapes with low relief were much more heterogeneous than expected from this relationship. The latter were characterized by a large proportion of agricultural land. Percent agriculture, in turn, was inversely related to topographic relief. The strength of these relationships was evaluated against changes in image spatial resolution (grain size). Aggregation of NDVI images to coarser grain size resulted in steady decline of their standard deviation. Although the relationship between landscape heterogeneity and explanatory variables was generally preserved, rates of decrease in heterogeneity with grain size differed among landscapes. A spatial autocorrelation analysis showed that rates of decrease were related to the scale at which pattern is manifested. On one end of the spectrum are agricultural, low-relief landscapes with low spatial autocorrelation and small-scale heterogeneity associated with fields; their heterogeneity decreased sharply as grain size increased. At the other end, desert landscapes were characterized by low small-scale heterogeneity, high spatial autocorrelation, and almost no change in heterogeneity as grain sized was increased-their heterogeneity, associated with land forms, was present at a large scale.
27823768|Whether plant invasion increases ecosystem carbon (C) stocks is controversial largely due to the lack of knowledge about differences in ecophysiological properties between invasive and native species. We conducted a field experiment in which we measured ecophysiological properties to explore the response of the ecosystem C stocks to the invasion of Spartina alterniflora (Spartina) in wetlands dominated by native Scirpus mariqueter (Scirpus) and Phragmites australis (Phragmites) in the Yangtze Estuary, China. We measured growing season length, leaf area index (LAI), net photosynthetic rate (Pn), root biomass, net primary production (NPP), litter quality and litter decomposition, plant and soil C and nitrogen (N) stocks in ecosystems dominated by the three species. Our results showed that Spartina had a longer growing season, higher LAI, higher Pn, and greater root biomass than Scirpus and Phragmites. Net primary production (NPP) was 2.16 kg C m2 y1 in Spartina ecosystems, which was, on average, 1.44 and 0.47 kg C m2 y1 greater than that in Scirpus and Phragmites ecosystems, respectively. The litter decomposition rate, particularly the belowground decomposition rate, was lower for Spartina than Scirpus and Phragmites due to the lower litter quality of Spartina. The ecosystem C stock (20.94 kg m2) for Spartina was greater than that for Scirpus (17.07 kg m2), Phragmites (19.51 kg m2) and the mudflats (15.12 kg m2). Additionally, Spartina ecosystems had a significantly greater N stock (698.8 g m2) than Scirpus (597.1 g m2), Phragmites ecosystems (578.2 g m2) and the mudflats (375.1 g m2). Our results suggest that Spartina invasion altered ecophysiological processes, resulted in changes in NPP and litter decomposition, and ultimately led to enhanced ecosystem C and N stocks in the invaded ecosystems in comparison to the ecosystems with native species.
3658701|We describe existing models of the relationship between species diversity and ecological function, and propose a conceptual model that relates species richness, ecological resilience, and scale. We suggest that species interact with scale-dependent sets of ecological structures and processes that determine functional opportunities. We propose that ecological resilience is generated by diverse, but overlapping, function within a scale and by apparently redundant species that operate at different scales, thereby reinforcing function across scales. The distribution of functional diversity within and across scales enables regeneration and renewal to occur following ecological disruption over a wide range of scales.
40793007|Land-use change in peatlands affects important drivers of CH 4 emission such as groundwater level and nutrient availability. Due to the high spatial and temporal variability of such environmental drivers, it is hard to make good predictions of CH 4 emissions in the context of land-use changes. Here, we used plant species composition as a stable integrator of environmental drivers of CH 4 emissions. We used weighted averaging regression and calibration to make a direct link between plant species composition and CH 4 flux in an effort to predict values of CH 4 emission for a land-use gradient in two extensive peatland sites. Our predicted CH 4 emissions showed good fit with observed values. Additionally, we showed that a quick characterization of vegetation composition, by the dominant species only, provides equally good predictions of CH 4 emissions. The use of mean groundwater level alone for predicting emissions showed the same predictive power as our models. However, water level showed strong variability in time. Furthermore, the inverse relationship between water level and CH 4 emission can lead to higher errors in predictions at sites with higher CH 4 emission. The performance of our model was comparable with those of mechanistic models developed for natural wetland ecosystems. However, such mechanistic models require complex input parameters that are rarely available. We propose the use of plant species composition as a simple and effective alternative for deriving predictions of CH 4 emissions in peatlands in the context of land-use change.
3658850|We investigated gap dynamics within a shallow subtidal landscape characterized by seagrass vegetation and examined the relationship between gap formation and selected physical factors. The study was conducted over 2 y by using a biannual mapping of seagrass and water depth across an
23501474|Peatlands and forested wetlands can cover a large fraction of the land area and contain a majority of the regional carbon pool in wet northern temperate landscapes. We used the LANDIS-II forest landscape succession model coupled with a model of plant community and soil carbon responses to water table changes to explore the impacts of declining water table on regional carbon pools in a peatland- and wetland-rich landscape in northern Wisconsin, USA. Simulations indicated that both biomass accumulation and soil decomposition would increase as a consequence of drying. In peatlands, simulated water table declines of 100 cm led to large increases in biomass as well as short-term increases in soil carbon, whereas declines of 40 cm led to continuous declines in soil carbon and smaller increases in biomass, with the net result being a loss of total carbon. In non-peat wetlands, biomass accumulation outweighed soil carbon loss for both scenarios. Long-term carbon cycle responses were not significantly affected by the time scale of water table decline. In general, peatland carbon storage over the first 50150 years following drainage was neutral or increasing due to increased plant growth, whereas carbon storage over longer time scales decreased due to soil carbon loss. Although the simplicity of the model limits quantitative interpretation, the results show that plant community responses are essential to understanding the full impact of hydrological change on carbon storage in peatland-rich landscapes, and that measurements over long time scales are necessary to adequately constrain landscape carbon pool responses to declining water table.
3658667| Tropical soils account for 10%-20% of the 15-35 Tg of atmospheric methane ( CH
27823763|Dynamic landscape models have generally assumed random distributions of habitat although real landscapes show spatial organization at many scales. To explore the role of spatial structure in determining the frequency of dispersal-limited forest species, we used a cellular landscape model divided into two zones. Zones were distributed in a random, clustered, or regular spatial pattern. Within each zone habitat cells were randomly destroyed and regenerated, and habitat density and turnover rate were systematically varied. A hypothetical habitat-limited species dispersed between adjacent habitat cells. All trials showed a reduced species frequency relative to a static landscape. Reduction was greater at low habitat density (P = 0.30) than at high density (0.90) suggesting the importance of habitat connectivity in controlling species frequency. The greatest reduction occurred when habitat was concentrated in a small, regularly distributed zone at low habitat density reflecting the enforced isolation of individual habitat cells. Very little reduction was observed when habitat cells were packed into a small clustered zone, a situation promoting connectivity between cells. Moderatesevere frequency reduction occurred when habitat turnover was concentrated in a clustered zone at high habitat density, but little was observed when turnover was widely distributed in a regular or random pattern. These results can be interpreted in terms of a source-sink function in which spatial pattern controlled the degree of contact between landscape zones and determined opportunities for dispersal between habitat cells. We conclude that clustering of forest habitat has the potential to maintain herb species frequency in sparsely forested landscapes. Conversely, clustering of forest disturbance in heavily forested regions, or regular distribution of forest stands (as often occurs in agricultural regions) creates areas which are difficult to colonize, and should be avoided.
43677524|This study aimed to assess the combined effects of long-term nitrogen (N) supply and nitrogen deposition (Ndep) on carbon (C) accumulation within Sitka spruce [Picea sitchensis (Bong.) Carr.] plantations in Scotland. Six study sites established from 1970 to 1982 were periodically N-fertilized, monitored over time and commonly surveyed in 2010. Soil, aboveground biomass, and ground vegetation C stock changes were analyzed; aboveground C experienced at each site, that is, the sum of experimental N supply (Nadd) and site-specific accumulated Ndep from 1900 to 2010. Results showed a positive N effect on aboveground tree C stock and no decline in tree growth was observed either during fertilization or after the latest N addition. The amount of C in litter was significantly higher in experimentally N-treated plots, whereas the amount of C in understory vegetation was higher in control plots. Pooling all the compartments (that is, understory vegetation, litter, soil, and tree biomass) the total ecosystem C content was estimated for each site, and at most sites a higher C stock was estimated for N-treated plots. Differences in aboveground C accumulation rates between treated and control plots were lower at sites with high levels of accumulated Ndep. Our results indicate that site-specific accumulated Ndep should be considered to understand tree growth responses to N fertilization.
40928224|We used dendroecological techniques to analyze the effects of rainfall and grazing on fire regime and its implications for tree regeneration in subtropical mountains of northwestern Argentina during the 20th century, a period characterized by increasing rainfall and decreasing land-use intensity. We dated fire scars and establishment of Alnus acuminata (the dominant tree species) in six watersheds along a 600 km latitudinal range. We correlated fire frequency with rainfall records and performed Superposed Epoch Analyses to assess the relationship between rainfall and fire events during the century, and in two sub-periods: 1930-1965 (low rainfall, high grazing) and 1966-2001 (high rainfall, low grazing). We performed permutation analyses to assess the association between fire events and tree establishment, and to describe the spatial distribution of fires and forests in relation to hillslope aspect. Rainfall was associated with regional fires at interannual and decadal scales: fire probability increased after growing seasons with above-average rainfall and through the century, in concurrence with rainfall increase. The climatic control of fire was stronger under lower land-use intensity. Tree establishment was temporally associated with fire events, which occurred mainly in north facing slopes, where grassland cover is more extensive and forest colonization more likely. These results suggest that fire is limited by the availability of fine fuels, which is enhanced by high rainfall and reduced grazing; and tree establishment is limited by the competition with grasses. Consequently, increasing rainfall and decreasing grazing favored higher fire frequency, thus promoting forest encroachment during 20th century.
3658854|Growing disillusion with the predictive capability of single species fisheries assessment methods and the realization that the management approaches they imply will always fail to protect bycatch species has led to growing interest in the potential of marine protected areas (MPAs) as a tool for protecting such species and allowing for rebuilding populations of target species and damaged habitat. Ecospace is a spatially explicit model for policy evaluation that allows for considering the impact of MPAs in an ecosystem (that is, trophic) context, and that relies on the Ecopath mass-balance approach for most of its parameterization. Additional inputs are movement rates used to compute exchanges between grid cells, estimates of the importance of trophic interactions (top-down vs bottom up control), and habitat preferences for each of the functional groups included in the model. An application example, including the effect of an MPA, and validation against trawl survey data is presented in the form of a color map illustrating Ecospace predictions of biomass patterns on the shelf of Brunei Darussalam, Southeast Asia. A key general prediction of Ecospace is spatial "cascade" effects, wherein prey densities are low where predators are abundant, for example, in protected areas or areas where fishing costs are high. Ecospace also shows that the potential benefits of local protection can be easily negated by high movement rates, and especially by concentration of fishing effort at the edge of the MPAs, where cascade effects generate prey gradients that attract predators out of the protected areas. Despite various limitations (for example, no explicit consideration of seasonal changes or directed migration), the outward simplicity of Ecospace and the information-rich graphs it generates, coupled with the increasingly global availability of the required Ecopath files, will likely ensure a wide use for this approach, both for generating hypotheses about ecosystem function and evaluating policy choices.
3658928|The introduction of salmonid fishes into naturally fishless lakes represents one of the most prevalent environmental modifications of aquatic ecosystems in western North America. Introduced fish may alter lake nutrient cycles and primary production, but the magnitude and variation of these effects have not been fully explored. We used bioenergetics modeling to estimate the contributions of stocked trout to phosphorus (P) cycles across a wide range of fish densities in lakes of the Sierra Nevada, California. We also assessed the larger effects of fish-induced changes in phosphorus cycling on primary production using paleolimnological analyses from lakes in the southern Canadian Rockies. Our analyses showed that total P recycling by fish was independent of fish density but positively related to fish biomass in the Sierra Nevada. In lakes with fish populations maintained by continued stocking, fish recycled P at over twice the rate of those in lakes where introduced fish populations are maintained by natural reproduction and stocking has been discontinued. We estimate that P regeneration by introduced fishes is approximately equivalent to atmospheric P deposition to these lakes. Paleolimnological analyses indicated that algal production increased substantially following trout introductions to Rocky Mountain lakes and was maintained for the duration of fish presence. The results of our modeling and paleolimnological analyses indicate that introduced trout fundamentally alter nutrient cycles and stimulate primary production by accessing benthic P sources that are not normally available to pelagic communities in oligotrophic mountain lakes. These effects pose a difficult challenge for managers charged with balancing the demand for recreational fisheries with the need to maintain natural ecosystem processes.
41505948|We assessed the spatial variability in both, surface carbon dioxide (CO) fluxes and in pelagic respiration rates in a newly created 600-km boreal reservoir, located in Northern Quebec. We show that total CO emission to the atmosphere was highest in the first year after flooding, and that surface fluxes were spatially heterogeneous. This spatial heterogeneity was not random, but was linked to the preflood landscapes: reservoir areas overlying former peatbogs and mature forests had the highest average emissions, whereas areas overlying former nonforest and burned soils had the lowest emissions. Total reservoir emissions appeared to decline exponentially in the next 2 years, and so did the degree of spatial heterogeneity in surface fluxes, suggesting a progressive weakening of the link to the pre-flood landscapes, and a homogenization of reservoir processes. We show that pelagic respiration rates were also initially high and spatially heterogeneous, the latter linked to the pre-flood landscapes. A simple, first-order mass balance for the first 3 years after flooding was used to derive potential benthic CO production rates, and thus to apportion the total reservoir emissions between its pelagic and benthic components. Extrapolation of the observed declines (normal exponential) in total emission, as well as of the underlying pelagic and benthic fluxes, results in a large underestimation of the fluxes for the fourth year, relative to the measured emissions. We postulate that the initial exponential decline in total emissions is driven primarily by the patterns of decomposition of surface plant biomass, whereas at later stages emission is increasingly dominated by sediment and pelagic respiration, which decline in time at a slower rate.
25053873|Rivers can provide important sources of energy for riparian biota. Stable isotope analysis
23501297|Local observations, repeat photos, and broad-scale remote sensing suggest that tall shrubs are becoming an increasingly dominant component of Low Arctic ecosystems. This shift has the potential to alter the surface energy balance through changes to the surface albedo, snow accumulation and melt, and ground thermal regimes. However, to date there have been few quantitative estimates of the rate of tall shrub expansion. We used soft copy stereo visualization of air photos to map fine-scale changes in tall shrub tundra and green alder density in the upland tundra north of Inuvik, NT between 1972 and 2004. We also used 2004 photos to map tall shrub tundra in areas affected by fires that occurred between 1960 and 1968. To assess the potential impact of vegetation change on microclimate, we used pyranometers to measure albedo and net solar radiation, thermistors attached to data loggers to record ground temperatures, and field surveys to record winter snow conditions in three common vegetation types. Fine-scale mapping shows that green alder stem density has increased by 68% (24.1) since 1972. Average tall shrub tundra cover has also increased by 15% (3.6) since 1972. Historical tundra fires had the highest proportion of tall shrub cover of all areas mapped using 2004 photos, ranging from 92 to 99%. Based on these results, we suggest that predicted increases in the size and frequency of tundra fire are likely to drive rapid shrub proliferation in the Low Arctic. Shrub-dominated sites have decreased albedo, increased net solar radiation, deeper snow pack, and elevated near-surface ground temperatures, indicating that continued increases in shrub cover will affect regional climate, hydrology, permafrost temperatures, and terrain stability.
27823700|Mapping biological diversity is a high priority for conservation research, management and policy development, but few studies have provided diversity data at high spatial resolution from remote sensing. We used airborne imaging spectroscopy to map woody vascular plant species richness in low-land tropical forest ecosystems in Hawai'i. Hyper-spectral signatures spanning the 4002,500 nm wavelength range acquired by the NASA Airborne Visible and Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (AVIRIS) were analyzed at 17 forest sites with species richness values ranging from 1 to 17 species per 0.10.3 ha. Spatial variation (range) in the shape of the AVIRIS spectra (derivative reflectance) in wavelength regions associated with upper-canopy pigments, water, and nitrogen content were well correlated with species richness across field sites. An analysis of leaf chlorophyll, water, and nitrogen content within and across species suggested that increasing spectral diversity was linked to increasing species richness by way of increasing biochemical diversity. A linear regression analysis showed that species richness was predicted by a combination of four biochemically-distinct wavelength observations centered at 530, 720, 1,201, and 1,523 nm (r2 = 0.85, p < 0.01). This relationship was used to map species richness at approximately 0.1 ha resolution in lowland forest reserves throughout the study region. Future remote sensing studies of biodiversity will benefit from explicitly connecting chemical and physical properties of the organisms to remotely sensed data.
3658841|The efflux of carbon from soils is a critical link between terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere. Current concerns about rising atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
40296324|Extreme weather events are expected to increase in frequency and magnitude due to climate change. Their effects on vegetation are widely unknown. Here, experimental grassland and heath communities in Central Europe were exposed either to a simulated single drought or to a prolonged heavy rainfall event. The magnitude of manipulations imitated the local 100-year weather extreme according to extreme value statistics. Overall productivity of both plant communities remained stable in the face of drought and heavy rainfall, despite significant effects on tissue die-back. Grassland communities were more resistant against the extreme weather events than heath communities. Furthermore, effects of extreme weather events on community tissue die-back were modified by functional diversity, even though conclusiveness in this part is limited by the fact that only one species composition was available per diversity level within this case study. More diverse grassland communities exhibited less tissue die-back than less complex grassland communities. On the other side, more diverse heath communities were more vulnerable to extreme weather events compared to less complex heath communities. Furthermore, legumes did not effectively contribute to the buffering against extreme weather events in both vegetation types. Tissue die-back proved a strong stress response in plant communities exposed to 100-year extreme weather events, even though one important ecosystem function, namely productivity, remained surprisingly stable in this experiment. Theories and concepts on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning (insurance hypothesis, redundancy hypothesis) may have to be revisited when extreme weather conditions are considered.
25470345|Productivity of aridland plants is predicted to increase substantially with rising atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) concentrations due to enhancement in plant water-use efficiency (WUE). However, to date, there are few detailed analyses of how intact desert vegetation responds to elevated CO. From 1998 to 2001, we examined aboveground production, photosynthesis, and water relations within three species exposed to ambient (around 38 Pa) or elevated (55 Pa) CO concentrations at the Nevada Desert Free-Air CO Enrichment (FACE) Facility in southern Nevada, USA. The functional types sampled-evergreen (Larrea tridentata), drought-deciduous (Ambrosia dumosa), and winter-deciduous shrubs (Krameria erecta)-represent potentially different responses to elevated CO in this ecosystem. We found elevated CO significantly increased aboveground production in all three species during an anomalously wet year (1998), with relative production ratios (elevated:ambient CO) ranging from 1.59 (Krameria) to 2.31 (Larrea). In three below-average rainfall years (1999-2001), growth was much reduced in all species, with only Ambrosia in 2001 having significantly higher production under elevated CO. Integrated photosynthesis (mol CO m y) in the three species was 1.26-2.03-fold higher under elevated CO in the wet year (1998) and 1.32-1.43-fold higher after the third year of reduced rainfall (2001). Instantaneous WUE was also higher in shrubs grown under elevated CO. The timing of peak canopy development did not change under elevated CO; for example, there was no observed extension of leaf longevity into the dry season in the deciduous species. Similarly, seasonal patterns in CO assimilation did not change, except for Larrea. Therefore, phenological and physiological patterns that characterize Mojave Desert perennials-early-season lags in canopy development behind peak photosynthetic capacity, coupled with reductions in late-season photosynthetic capacity prior to reductions in leaf area-were not significantly affected by elevated CO. Together, these findings suggest that elevated CO can enhance the productivity of Mojave Desert shrubs, but this effect is most pronounced during years with abundant rainfall when soil resources are most available.
3658975|Complex environmental and ecological problems require collaborative, interdisciplinary efforts. A common approach to integrating disciplinary perspectives on these problems is to develop simulation models in which the linkages between system components are explicitly represented. There is, however, little guidance in the literature on how such models should be developed through collaborative teamwork. In this paper, we offer a set of heuristics (rules of thumb) that address a range of challenges associated with this enterprise, including the selection of team members, negotiating a consensus view of the research problem, prototyping and refining models, the role of sensitivity analysis, and the importance of team communication. These heuristics arose from a comparison of our experiences with several interdisciplinary modeling projects. We use one such experience-a project in which natural scientists, social scientists, and local residents came together to investigate the sustainability of small indigenous communities in the Arctic-to illustrate the heuristics.
3658935|Streams are important sites of nutrient transport and transformation in the landscape but little is known about the way in which individual taxa or individual habitats (riffles and pools) influence nutrient dynamics within stream reaches. We used 5-week additions of a stable isotope
3658819|We use archaeological, historical, ecological, and fisheries data to identify three distinct and sequential phases in the trophic structure of kelp forests in the western North Atlantic's Gulf of Maine. Phase 1 is characterized by vertebrate apex predators such as Atlantic cod, haddock, and wolffish and persisted for more than 4,000 years. Phase 2 is characterized by herbivorous sea urchins and lasted from the 1970s to the 1990s. Phase 3 is dominated by invertebrate predators such as large crabs and has developed since 1995. Each phase change resulted directly or indirectly from fisheries-induced "trophic-level dysfunction," in which populations of functionally important species at higher trophic levels fell below the densities necessary to limit prey populations at lower trophic levels. By using fractional trophic-level analysis, we found that phase changes occurred rapidly (over a few years to a few decades) as well as relatively recently (over the past half-century). Interphase durations have declined as fishing effects have accelerated in recent years. The naturally low species diversity of the kelp forest ecosystem we studied may facilitate rapid changes because the redundancy within each trophic level is low. If the biodiversity within controlling trophic levels is a buffer against trophic-level dysfunction, then our observations from Maine may be predictive of the fate of other, more diverse systems. If fishing successively targets most, or all, strong interactors at higher trophic levels, then as those population densities decline, the potential for trophic-level dysfunction and associated instabilities will increase.
41505959|Though typically limited in aerial extent, soils of high-elevation riparian wetlands have among the highest density of soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) of terrestrial ecosystems and therefore contribute disproportionally to ecosystem services such as water retention, forage production, wildlife habitat, and reactive N removal. Because much soil C and N is stored in labile forms in anaerobic conditions, management activities or environmental changes that lead to drying cause mineralization of labile soil organic matter, and loss of C and N. Meadows are focal points of human activities in mountain regions, often with incised stream channels from historically heavy grazing exacerbated by extreme runoff events. To quantify soil C and N stores in montane riparian meadows across hydrologie conditions, 17 meadows between 1950-and 2675-m elevation were selected in the central Sierra Nevada Range, California, that were classified using the proper functioning condition (PFC) system. Results indicate that C and N density in whole-solum soil cores were equivalent at forest edge positions of properly functioning, functioning at-risk, and nonfunctioning condition. Soils under more moist meadow positions in properly functioning meadows have at least twice the C, N, dissolved organic C, and dissolved organic N (DON) than those under nonfunctioning meadows. Densities of total N and DON, but not C, of functioning at-risk meadows are significantly lower (P < 0.05) than those of properly functioning meadows at mid-slope and streambank positions, suggesting accelerated loss of N early in degradation processes. Though variable, the soil attributes measured correspond well to the PFC riparian wetland classification system.
3658774|The restoration and rehabilitation of the native fish communities is a long-term goal for the Laurentian Great Lakes. In Lake Superior, the ongoing restoration of the native lake trout populations is now regarded as one of the major success stories in fisheries management. However, populations of the deepwater morphotype (siscowet lake trout) have increased much more substantially than those of the nearshore morphotype (lean lake trout), and the ecosystem now contains an assemblage of exotic species such as sea lamprey, rainbow smelt, and Pacific salmon (chinook, coho, and steelhead). Those species play an important role in defining the constraints and opportunities for ecosystem management. We combined an equilibrium mass balance model (Ecopath) with a dynamic food web model (Ecosim) to evaluate the ecological consequences of future alternative management strategies and the interaction of two different sets of life history characteristics for fishes at the top of the food web. Relatively rapid turnover rates occur among the exotic forage fish, rainbow smelt, and its primary predators, exotic Pacific salmonids. Slower turnover rates occur among the native lake trout and burbot and their primary prey-lake herring, smelt, deepwater cisco, and sculpins. The abundance of forage fish is a key constraint for all salmonids in Lake Superior. Smelt and Mysis play a prominent role in sustaining the current trophic structure. Competition between the native lake trout and the exotic salmonids is asymmetric. Reductions in the salmon population yield only a modest benefit for the stocks of lake trout, whereas increased fishing of lake trout produces substantial potential increases in the yields of Pacific salmon to recreational fisheries. The deepwater or siscowet morphotype of lake trout has become very abundant. Although it plays a major role in the structure of the food web it offers little potential for the restoration of a valuable commercial or recreational fishery. Even if a combination of strong management actions is implemented, the populations of lean (nearshore) lake trout cannot be restored to pre-fishery and pre-lamprey levels. Thus, management strategy must accept the ecological constraints due in part to the presence of exotics and choose alternatives that sustain public interest in the resources while continuing the gradual progress toward restoration.
41505969|Elephant and fire are considered to be among the most important agents that can modify the African savanna ecosystem. Although the synergistic relationship between these two key ecological drivers is well documented, it has proved much more difficult to establish the relative effects they have on savanna vegetation structure at a fine-scale over time. In this study, we explore the comparative impacts of fire and elephant on 2,522 individually identified large trees (> 5 m in height) in the Kruger National Park, South Africa. Data were collected from 21 transects first surveyed in April 2006 and resurveyed in November 2008, to determine the relative importance of past damage by these agents on subsequent impacts and mortality. The occurrence of fire or elephant damage in 2006 affected the amount of tree volume subsequently removed by both these agents; elephant removed more tree volume from previously burned trees and the impact of subsequent fire was higher on previously burned or elephant-utilized trees than on undamaged trees. Mortality was also affected by an interaction between previous and recent damage, as the probability of mortality was highest for trees that suffered from fire or elephant utilization after being pushed over. Subsequent fire damage, but not elephant utilization, on debarked trees also increased the probability of mortality. Mortality was twice (4.6% per annum) that of trees progressing into the > 5 m height class, suggesting an overall decline in large tree density during the 30-month study period. The responses of large trees were species and landscape-specific in terms of sensitivity to elephant and fire impacts, as well as for levels of mortality and progression into the > 5 m height class. These results emphasize the need for fine-scale site-specific knowledge for effective landscape level understanding of savanna dynamics.
3658933|In temperate forests, symbiotic nitrogen (N) fixation is restricted to the early phases of succession despite the persistence of N limitation on production late in succession. This paradox has yet to be explained adequately. We hypothesized that the restriction of N fixation to early stages of succession results from the optimization of resource allocation in the vegetation. Because of this optimization, N fixation should be restricted to periods when fixation is less costly than N uptake. Our analysis differs from others in the way we calculate the cost of N uptake; we assess the cost of N uptake as the amount of carbon (C) that could be assimilated if the resources necessary to acquire one gram of N from the soil were allocated instead to photosynthesis. We then simulate N fixation as an asymptotic function of the difference in cost between N uptake and N fixation and proportional to the abundance of host tissues for the N-fixing symbionts. The factors that contribute to conditions that favor N fixation are (a) elevated-carbon dioxide ( CO
27823767|Metabolic hotspots at landwater interfaces are important in supporting biogeochemical processes. Here we confirm the generality of landaquatic interfaces as biogeochemical hot spots by extending this concept to marine beach cast materials. In situ atmospheric pCO2, from a respiration chamber (10 cm in diameter and 20 cm high) inserted into wrack deposits, was determined using a high-precision (1 ppm) non-dispersive infrared gas analyzer (EGM-4, PP-systems) at 1 minute recording intervals. The wrack deposits supported high metabolic activities, with CO2 fluxes averaging (SE) 6.62  0.88 mol C m2 s1, compared to median value of 0.98 mol C m2 s1 (mean 2.21  1.25 mol C m2 s1) for bare sand adjacent to deposits. Wrack metabolic rates ranged 40-fold across beaches, from a minimum of 0.57  0.22 mol C m2 s1 to a maximum of 20.8  5.04 mol C m2 s1, both derived from beaches with deposits dominated by Sargassum. Rates tended to increase significantly (F test, P < 0.05) from the shoreline to reach maximum rates at about 10 m from the shoreline, declining sharply further from the shoreline, and increased with increasing thickness of the deposits (maximum about 10 cm deep), declining for thicker deposits. Wrack differing in composition had similar metabolic rates, although deposits consisting of a mixture of seagrass and algae tended to show somewhat higher rates. Our results show a meter square of wrack deposit supports a metabolic rate equivalent to that supported by 3 m2 of living seagrass or macroalgal habitat. In wrack, the marine environment provides organic material and moisture and the land environment provides oxygen to render wrack ecosystems an efficient metabolic reactor. Intense wrack metabolism should also be conducive to organismal growth by supporting the development of a cryptic, but diverse wrack-based food web.
25470332|In ecology textbooks prior to the 1970s, Aldo Leopold's classic story of predator control, over-population of deer, and habitat degradation on the Kaibab Plateau during the 1920s epitomized predator regulation of herbivore populations. However, the story disappeared from texts in the late 20th century after several papers noted uncertainties in estimations of the deer population and provided alternative explanations. We re-examined the case study by determining the age structure of aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) on the plateau. Aspen comprises the majority of deer browse in the summer, and the absence of a normal cohort of aspen from the 1920s would indicate deer over-population. The number of aspen (at 1.4 m) dating to the 1920s was an order of magnitude lower than the null expectation. Other periods of unusual numbers of aspen included high numbers of aspen dating to the 1880s and 1890s (when regular surface fires ceased), few aspen dating from 1953 to 1962 (after a second irruption of the deer population), and very high numbers from 1968 to 1992 (coincident with widespread logging). These convergent lines of evidence support the idea of extreme deer herbivory in the 1920s, consistent with food limitation of deer at high populations (bottom-up control) and predation limitation at low deer populations (top-down control). Some uncertainty remains within the overall story, and this level of ambiguity is common in case studies that involve population ecology, land management, and people at the scale of 1,000 km and 100 years. A complete version of the Kaibab deer story and its history would be a valuable, realistic case study for ecology texts.
3658981|We describe the three-dimensional structure of an old-growth Douglas-fir/western hemlock forest in the central Cascades of southern Washington, USA. We concentrate on the vertical distribution of foliage, crowns, external surface area, wood biomass, and several components of canopy volume. In addition, we estimate the spatial variation of some aspects of structure, including the topography of the outer surface, and of microclimate, including the within-canopy transmittance of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR). The crowns of large stems, especially of Douglas-fir, dominate the structure and many aspects of spatial variation. The mean vertical profile of canopy surfaces, estimated by five methods, generally showed a single maximum in the lower to middle third of the canopy, although the height of that maximum varied by method. The stand leaf area index was around
40296306|Spawning salmon deliver nutrients (salmonderived nutrients, SDN) to natal watersheds that can be incorporated into terrestrial and aquatic food webs, potentially increasing ecosystem productivity. Peterson Creek, a coastal watershed in southeast Alaska that supports several species of anadromous fish, was sampled over the course of a storm during September 2006 to test the hypothesis that stormflows re-introduce stored SDN into the stream. We used stable isotopes and PARAFAC modeling of fluorescence excitation-emission spectroscopy to detect flushing of DOM from salmon carcasses in the riparian zone back into a spawning stream. During the early storm hydrograph, streamwater concentrations of NH 4-N and total dissolved phosphorus (TDP), the fluorescent protein tyrosine and the 5 15 N content of DOM peaked, followed by a rapid decrease during maximum stormflow. Although N has previously been used to track SDN in riparian zones, the use of fluorescence spectroscopy provides an independent indicator that SDN are being returned from the riparian zone to the stream after a period of intermediate storage outside the stream channel. Our findings further demonstrate the utility of using both N of streamwater DOM and fluorescence spectroscopy with PARAFAC modeling to monitor how the pool of streamwater DOM changes in spawning salmon streams.
27823736|Empirical estimates of the function and resilience of communities under different management regimes can provide valuable information for sustainable natural resource management, but such estimates are scarce to date. We quantified the functional richness and relative resilience of bird communities inhabiting five regions in southeastern Australia that represented different management regimes. First, we show that functional richness and relative resilience were reduced at species-poor sites in all regions. Second, we show that bird communities in agricultural regions had fewer body mass groups and fewer functional groups than expected by chance. This suggests that both the function and the resilience of bird communities in agricultural regions were reduced. The likely mechanisms for the observed loss of function and relative resilience are: (1) the simplification of landscape texture resulting in selective extinction of certain body mass groups; and (2) the selective extinction of certain functional groups that are particularly sensitive to intensive land use.
3658964|Boreal forests are composed of a few plant species with contrasting traits with respect to ecosystem functioning and spatial patterning. Early successional deciduous species, such as birch and aspen, disperse seeds widely, do not tolerate low light and nitrogen availabilities, have rapidly decaying litter, and are highly preferred by herbivores. These later succeed to conifers, such as spruce and fir, which disperse seeds locally, tolerate low light levels and low nitrogen availability, have litter that decays slowly, and are unpalatable to most mammalian herbivores. Although there are also early successional conifers, such as jack pine and Scots pine, the aspen-birch-spruce-fir successional sequence is the most common over much of North America, and (without fir) in Fennoscandia and Siberia. The course of succession in these forests is controlled partly by seed dispersal and selective foraging by mammalian herbivores. Both of these processes are spatially dynamic, but little is known about how their spatial dynamics may affect ecosystem processes, such as nitrogen cycling or productivity. We present spatially explicit models that demonstrate the following: (a) Spatially explicit seed dispersal results in more clumped distribution of tree species and persistence of greater paper birch biomass than uniform seed rain across the landscape. Such results are consistent with current spatially explicit population models of dispersal and coexistence. (b) With localized seed dispersal, the concentrations of available soil nitrogen are distributed in larger patches with sharp transitions from low to high nitrogen availability near patch edges. In contrast, with a uniform seed rain, the distribution of soil nitrogen availability was more uniform and "hotspots" were more localized. Thus, the spatial pattern of an ecosystem process (nitrogen cycling) is determined by seed dispersal and competition for light among competing populations. (c) A dispersing herbivore, such as moose, that selectively forages on early successional deciduous species with high quality litter, such as aspen or birch, and discriminates against late successional conifers, such as spruce or fir, imposes higher-order repeated patterns of plant species and biomass distribution on the landscape. Thus, seed dispersal and herbivore foraging correlate properties in adjacent patches but in different ways, and different spatial patterns emerge. Other processes, such as insect outbreaks, fire, and water flow, also may correlate properties between adjacent patches and result in additional patterns.
40296268|High arctic wetlands hold large stores of soil carbon (C). The fate of these C stores in a changing climate is uncertain, as rising air temperatures may differentially affect photosynthesis and ecosystem respiration (ER). In this study, open-top warming chambers were used to increase air and soil temperatures in contrasting microtopographic positions of a high arctic fen in NW Greenland. CO exchange between the ecosystem and the atmosphere was measured on 28 dates over a 3-year period. Measurements of the normalized difference vegetation index, leaf and stem growth, leaf-level gas exchange, leaf nitrogen, leaf 5 13 C, and fine root production were made to investigate the mechanisms and consequences of observed changes in CO exchange. Gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) increased with chamber warming in hollows, which are characterized by standing water, and in hummocks, which extend above the water table. ER, however, increased only in hummocks, such that net ecosystem exchange (NEE) increased in hollows, but did not change in hummocks with chamber warming. Complementary measurements of plant growth revealed that increases in GEP corresponded with increases in C allocation to aboveground biomass in hummocks and belowground biomass in hollows. Our results and those of several recent studies clearly demonstrate that effects of climate change on the C balance of northern wetlands will depend upon microtopography which, in turn, may be sensitive to climate change.
23501443|Nitrogen (N) deposition threatens European Mediterranean ecosystems but investigation and understanding of impacts are limited. We report plant responses from an ongoing field N fertilization experiment conducted in a kermes oak shrubland, where NH 4 NO 3 has been added for 1.5 years at four rates (0, 10, 20, and 50 kg N ha -1 y -1 ). Two annual plants (Asterolinon linum-stellatum and Limonium echiodes) were negatively affected by N fertilization in terms of density and growth. However, responses were only evident when accounting for between-plot differences in soil NO 3 - -N and NH 4 + -N. Responses of A. linum-stellatum to simulated N deposition were also dependent on microhabitat, with the most negative effects found in the interspaces between rosemary shrubs. Negative effects were attributed either to increased soil NH 4 + -N or to a nutritional (N to P) imbalance. Mycorrhizal infection rates were not altered by N addition in the case of L. echioides, whereas mycorrhizal colonization of A. linum-stellatum roots increased with N in those individuals growing under shrub protection. Living cover of rosemary shrubs was also reduced by simulated N deposition as a consequence of a reduced interannual twig growth. Contrary to annual plants, tissue N content and C:N ratios in rosemary were not affected by simulated N deposition. Overall, our data suggest a high sensitivity of plant communities from moderately polluted semiarid Mediterranean shrublands to N deposition, highlight the role of different forms of inorganic N on plant response to N deposition, and support the importance of conducting similar experiments in other Mediterranean areas spanning a wide range of climatic, soil, and background N deposition conditions.
27823749|We present a regional fuel load model (1 km2 spatial resolution) applied in the southern African savanna region. The model is based on a patch-scale production efficiency model (PEM) scaled up to the regional level using empirical relationships between patch-scale behavior and multi-source remote sensing data (spatio-temporal variability of vegetation and climatic variables). The model requires the spatial distribution of woody vegetation cover, which is used to determine separate respiration rates for tree and grass. Net primary production, grass and tree leaf death, and herbivory are also taken into account in this mechanistic modeling approach. The fuel load model has been calibrated and validated from independent measurements taken from savanna vegetation in Africa southward from the equator. A sensitivity analysis on the effect of climate variables (incoming radiation, air temperature, and precipitation) has been conducted to demonstrate the strong role that water availability has in determining productivity and subsequent fuel load over the southern African region. The model performance has been tested in four different areas representative of a regional increasing rainfall gradientEtosha National Park, Namibia, Mongu and Kasama, Zambia, as well as in Kruger National Park, South Africa. Within each area, we analyze model output from three different magnitudes of canopy coverage (<5, 30, and 50%). We find that fuel load ranges predicted by the model are globally in agreement with field measurements for the same year. High rainfall sustains green herbaceous production late in the dry season and delays tree leaf litter production. Effect of water on production varies across the rainfall gradient with delayed start of green material production in more arid regions.
3658694|The sizes of organisms are determined by their interactions with their environment and related ecological and evolutionary processes. Recent studies of body size distributions across communities show evidence for multimodality. The multiple modes were originally explained as a consequence of textural discontinuities in habitat structure. Because communities consist of species that are drawn from lineages, body size patterns within lineages will affect those that are expressed in communities. We used a cellular automation model to argue that multimodality in body sizes within lineages can arise from a few fundamental evolutionary mechanisms alone. We tested the hypothesis using body size data for 138 fish genera and found strong support for the idea that evolution structures body size distributions. The results suggest, first, that we should expect the distribution of body sizes within lineages to be multimodal and second, that a coherent theory of community body size distributions will need to combine both evolutionary and ecological perspectives.
40296300|Computational thinking (CT) is a way to solve problems and understand complex systems that draws on concepts fundamental to computer science and is well suited to the challenges that face researchers of complex, linked social-ecological systems. This paper explores CT's usefulness to sustainability science through the application of the services-oriented architecture (SOA). The SO A is a popular organizational framework in information technology that enables businesses to describe the services they offer, including how, where, to whom, and under what terms these services are available to consumers. It provides a straightforward, scalable, and portable way to describe and organize complex business systems, with an emphasis on system controls and component interactions rather than on the system components themselves. Here, we present the SOA as a path to a more mature ecosystem services concept, in support of integrated assessment frameworks such as the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA). With the SOA we capture important interrelationships among ecosystems, ecosystem service consumers, and ecosystem service governance authorities, particularly the effects of their interactions on the viability of ecosystem services. By standardizing the description and relationships involving ecosystem services, the SOA supports a diagnostic approach for evaluating stability and change in ecosystem service use across both space and time, when influenced by drivers of social, political, and/or ecological change, whether directional or stochastic, planned or otherwise. We present here a prototype of the SOA and illustrate its utility with an example from rural Alaskan communities.
27823659|Restoring soil C pools by reducing land use intensity is a potentially high impact, rapidly deployable strategy for partially offsetting atmospheric CO2 increases. However, rates of C accumulation and underlying mechanisms have rarely been determined for a range of managed and successional ecosystems on the same soil type. We determined soil organic matter (SOM) fractions with the highest potential for sequestering C in ten ecosystems on the same soil series using both density- and incubation-based fractionation methods. Ecosystems included four annual row-crop systems (conventional, low input, organic and no-till), two perennial cropping systems (alfalfa and poplar), and four native ecosystems (early successional, midsuccessional historically tilled, midsuccessional never-tilled, and late successional forest). Enhanced C storage to 5 cm relative to conventional agriculture ranged from 8.9 g C m2 y1 in low input row crops to 31.6 g C m2 y1 in the early successional ecosystem. Carbon sequestration across all ecosystems occurred in aggregate-associated pools larger than 53 m. The density-based fractionation scheme identified heavy-fraction C pools (SOM > 1.6 g cm3 plus SOM < 53 m), particularly those in macroaggregates (>250 m), as having the highest potential C accumulation rates, ranging from 8.79 g C m2 y1 in low input row crops to 29.22 g C m2 y1 in the alfalfa ecosystem. Intra-aggregate light fraction pools accumulated C at slower rates, but generally faster than in inter-aggregate LF pools. Incubation-based methods that fractionated soil into active, slow and passive pools showed that C accumulated primarily in slow and resistant pools. However, crushing aggregates in a manner that simulates tillage resulted in a substantial transfer of C from slow pools with field mean residence times of decades to active pools with mean residence times of only weeks. Our results demonstrate that soil C accumulates almost entirely in soil aggregates, mostly in macroaggregates, following reductions in land use intensity. The potentially rapid destruction of macroaggregates following tillage, however, raises concerns about the long-term persistence of these C pools.
23501479|Decomposition models typically under-predict decomposition relative to observed rates in drylands. This discrepancy indicates a significant gap in our mechanistic understanding of carbon and nutrient cycling in these systems. Recent research suggests that certain drivers of decomposition that are often not explicitly incorporated into models (for example, photodegradation and soillitter mixing; SLM) may be important in drylands, and their exclusion may, in part, be responsible for model under-predictions. To assess the role of SLM, litterbags were deployed in the Chihuahuan Desert and interrelationships between vegetation structure, SLM, and rates of decomposition were quantified. Vegetation structure was manipulated to simulate losses of grass cover from livestock grazing and shrub encroachment. We hypothesized that reductions in grass cover would promote SLM and accelerate mass loss by improving conditions for microbial decomposition. Litter mass decreased exponentially, with the greatest losses occurring in concert with summer monsoons. There were no differences in decay constants among grass cover treatments. A significant, positive relationship between mass loss and SLM was observed, but contrary to expectations SLM was independent of grass cover. This suggests that processes operating at finer spatial scales than those in our grass removal treatments were influencing SLM. Shifts in litter lipid composition suggest increased bacterial contribution to decomposition through time. SLM, which is seldom included as a variable controlling decomposition in statistical or mechanistic models, was a strong driver of decomposition. Results are discussed in the context of other known drivers of decomposition in drylands (for example, UV radiation and climate) and more mesic systems.
25053867|Given the importance of colored dissolved organic matter (CDOM) for the structure and function of lake ecosystems, a method that could estimate the amount of CDOM in lake waters over large geographic areas would be highly desirable. Satellite remote sensing has the potential to resolve this problem. We carried out model simulations to evaluate the suitability of different satellite sensors (Landsat, IKONOS, and the Advanced land Imager [ALI]) to map the amount of CDOM in concentration ranges that occur in boreal lakes of the Nordic countries. The results showed that the 8-bit radiometric resolution of Landsat 7 is not adequate when absorption by CDOM at 420 nm is higher than 3
27823759|This review article describes vectors for nitrogen and phosphorus delivery to riparian zones in semiarid African savannas, the processing of nutrients in the riparian zone and the effect of disturbance on these processes. Semiarid savannas exhibit sharp seasonality, complex hillslope hydrology and high spatial heterogeneity, all of which ultimately impact nutrient fluxes between riparian, upland and aquatic environments. Our review shows that strong environmental drivers such as fire and herbivory enhance nitrogen, phosphorus and sediment transport to lower slope positions by shaping vegetative patterns. These vectors differ significantly from other arid and semiarid ecosystems, and from mesic ecosystems where the impact of fire and herbivory are less pronounced and less predictable. Also unique is the presence of sodic soils in certain hillslopes, which substantially alters hydrological flowpaths and may act as a trap where nitrogen is immobilized while sediment and phosphorus transport is enhanced. Nutrients and sediments are also deposited in the riparian zone during seasonal, intermittent floods while, during the dry season, subsurface movement of water from the stream into riparian soils and vegetation further enrich riparian zones with nutrients. As is found in mesic ecosystems, nutrients are immobilized in semiarid riparian corridors through microbial and plant uptake, whereas dissimilatory processes such as denitrification may be important where labile nitrogen and carbon are in adequate supply and physical conditions are suitablesuch as in seeps, wallows created by animals, ephemeral wetlands and stream edges. Interaction between temporal hydrologic connectivity and spatial heterogeneity are disrupted by disturbances such as large floods and extended droughts, which may convert certain riparian patches from sinks to sources for nitrogen and phosphorus. In the face of increasing anthropogenic pressure, the scientific challenges are to provide a basic understanding of riparian biogeochemistry in semiarid African savannas to adequately address the temporal and spatial impact of disturbances, and to apply this knowledge to better regional land and water management. An integrated, multidisciplinary approach applied in protected as well as human-disturbed ecosystems in southern Africa is essential for underpinning a strong environmental basis for sustainable human-related expansion.
23253733|Earthworm invasion in North American temperate forest reduces forest floor mass, yet the interactions between litter composition, invasive earthworm community composition, and forest floor structure and composition are not well understood. For 2 years, we compared disappearance of leaf litter in field mesocosms in which we manipulated litter composition (monocultures of Quercus rubra, Acer saccharum, and Tilia americana litter, and an equal mixture of all three) and thereby the initial litter chemistry (C, C fractions, N, Ca) in sites with and without the major litter-feeding invasive earthworm species. The disappearance of litter mass followed the same ranking at both the sites: T. americana > equal mixtures > A. saccharum  Q. rubra. However, differences in disappearance rate between the sites depended on litter composition and time. The differences in mass loss among litters of different compositions were greatest at the site invaded by the large litter-feeding earthworm, Lumbricus terrestris, and especially for T. americana and the mixture. Similarly, observed disappearance of the litter mixture was faster than predicted by an additive model at the site with L. terrestris, especially for the higher quality litter component in early summer. Initial litter calcium content was the best predictor (R 2  0.90) of overall litter mass remaining each year, supporting the idea of the importance of calcium in forest floor dynamics, especially in the presence of calciferous, invasive earthworms.
3658897| During the unstratified (winter) and stratified (summer) periods of 1999 and 2000, we examined carbon (C) dynamics in the upper water column of southern Lake Michigan. We found that (a) bacterial respiration (BR) and planktonic respiration (PR) were major sinks for C, (b) C flux through bacteria (CFTB) was diminished in winter because of reduced bacterial production (BP) and increased bacterial growth efficiency (BGE) at colder temperatures, and (c) PR exceeded primary production (PP) during the spring-summer transition. Drawdown of dissolved organic C (DOC), resuspended organic matter from the lake floor, and riverine organic matter likely provided organic C to compensate for this temporal deficit. DOC in the water column decreased between winter and summer (
41413038|Recent warming at high-latitudes has accelerated permafrost thaw in northern peatlands, and thaw can have profound effects on local hydrology and ecosystem carbon balance. To assess the impact of permafrost thaw on soil organic carbon (OC) dynamics, we measured soil hydrologic and thermal dynamics and soil OC stocks across a collapse-scar bog chronosequence in interior Alaska. We observed dramatic changes in the distribution of soil water associated with thawing of ice-rich frozen peat. The impoundment of warm water in collapse-scar bogs initiated talik formation and the lateral expansion of bogs over time. On average, Permafrost Plateaus stored 137  37 kg C m, whereas OC storage in Young Bogs and Old Bogs averaged 84  db 13 kg C m. Based on our reconstructions, the accumulation of OC in near-surface bog peat continued for nearly 1,000 years following permafrost thaw, at which point accumulation rates slowed. Rapid decomposition of thawed forest peat reduced deep OC stocks by nearly half during the first 100 years following thaw. Using a simple mass-balance model, we show that accumulation rates at the bog surface were not sufficient to balance deep OC losses, resulting in a net loss of OC from the entire peat column. An uncertainty analysis also revealed that the magnitude and timing of soil OC loss from thawed forest peat depends substantially on variation in OC input rates to bog peat and variation in decay constants for shallow and deep OC stocks. These findings suggest that permafrost thaw and the subsequent release of OC from thawed peat will likely reduce the strength of northern permafrost-affected peatlands as a carbon dioxide sink, and consequently, will likely accelerate rates of atmospheric warming.
25053810|Ecosystem services-the benefits that people obtain from ecosystems-are essential to human existence, but demands for services often surpass the capacity of ecosystems to provide them. Lack of ecological information often precludes informed decision making about ecosystem services. The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA) was conceived in part to provide the necessary ecological information to decision makers. To this end, the MA set out to address the stated needs and concerns of decision makers and examine the ecological dynamics and uncertainties underlying these concerns. To improve our understanding of their information needs and concerns, we interviewed 59 decision makers from five continents. The respondents indicated that although most people generally agree about the ideal state of the planet-free of poverty and extreme inequality, replete with cultural and biological diversity-they often disagree about the best way to achieve these goals. Further, although nonspecialists are generally concerned about the environment and may have a good understanding of some of issues, they often have a more limited grasp of the ecological dynamics that drive the issues of concern. We identify some of the principal uncertainties about ecosystem dynamics and feedbacks that underlie the concerns of decision makers. Each of the papers in this special feature addresses these ecological feedbacks from the perspective of a specific discipline, suggesting ways in which knowledge of ecological dynamics can be incorporated into the MA's assessment and scenario-building process.
43677539|According to recent climate change scenarios, temperate forests will be increasingly exposed to droughts in the 21st century which are thought to affect productivity. Although decreasing timber yield with reduced precipitation has frequently been reported from temperate forests, the dependence of forest net primary production (NPP) on precipitation is little understood. In a 3-year transect study (2009-2011) carried out in 12 mature beech forests (Fagus sylvatica) along a precipitation gradient (820-540 mm y) in Northern Germany, we measured all aboveground NPP components (NPP; stem wood, leaf mass, flower and fruit production) and analyzed relationships with monthly weather data. Because we measured NPP under a broad range of precipitation levels, drought lengths and mast fruiting intensities, the climatic controls of aboveground productivity and carbon allocation could be analyzed in detail. Despite a significant decrease in annual (and growing season) precipitation sums along the transect, NPP remained largely invariant in each of the years, but varied remarkably between the years (means of 981, 702, 955 g DM m y, respectively). Variation in NPP a was most closely related to current year's early summer weather conditions (June-July), whereas the patterns of biomass allocation to wood, leaf, and fruit production responded to the previous summer's weather. Wood production cannot predict NPP a in beech due to alternative allocation priorities of vegetative and reproductive growth. Our results show that apparent drought-induced reductions in beech timber yield often are the result of allocation shifts toward fruit production triggered by warm and dry weather in the previous summer.
40603414|Long-term nitrogen (N) addition experiments have found positive, negative, and neutral effects of added N on rates of decomposition. A leading explanation for this variation is differential effects of N on the activity of microbially produced extracellular enzymes involved in decomposition. Specifically, it is hypothesized that adding N to N-limited ecosystems increases activity of cellulose degrading enzymes and decreases that of lignin degrading enzymes, and that shifts in enzyme activity in response to added N explain the decomposition response to N fertilization. We measured litter and soil organic matter (SOM) decomposition and microbial enzyme activity in a long-term N fertilization experiment at eight forested and grassland sites in central Minnesota, USA, to determine (1) variation among sites in enzyme activity, (2) variation in the response of enzymes, litter decomposition, and soil respiration to added N, and (3) whether changes in enzyme activity in response to added N explained variability among sites in the effect of N on litter and SOM decomposition. Site differences in pH, moisture, soil carbon, and microbial biomass explained much of the amongsite variation in enzyme activity. Added N generally stimulated activities of cellulose degrading and Nand phosphorus-acquiring enzymes in litter and soil, but had no effect on lignin degrading enzyme activity. In contrast, added N generally had negative or neutral effects on litter and SOM decomposition in the same sites, with no correspondence between effects of N on enzyme activity and decomposition across sites.
23501469|From an ecosystem management perspective, analysis of the functional roles of species is a challenge. It is valuable to determine which species are irreplaceable within a given community based on their contribution to the system's organization. This study relates the emergent functional and structural indices of biological groups estimated from a trophic model of the Northern Gulf of California to identify the roles of these groups in the ecosystem context, with a particular focus on the role of the vaquita, an endemic porpoise in critically endangered status. The simulation of removing each group allowed the analysis of the removal's functional effect on the ecosystem's global attributes and organization (based on Ulanowicz's ascendency concept). Groups from lower trophic levels (TL) were more related to complexity indicators, suggesting their contribution to the organization and structure of energy flows in the food web. Groups from intermediate TL had higher values of structural indexes, indicating their function in the control of flows throughout the network. The vaquita along with other marine mammals, aquatic birds, and some species of fish with a high TL contribute in a similar way to the order (for example, ascendency/capacity-of-development ratio) of the system, showing a relatively high value of ascendency (contribution of the group to the organization inherent to the ecosystem) and the change in ecosystem ascendency when they were removed. The vaquita, like marine and coastal birds, plays a small role in the ecosystem. But like them, it does contribute substantially to ecosystem organization. This study thus provides information potentially useful for management in understanding the species' role and in reducing uncertainty in decision-making.
3658606|The integration of the social sciences into long-term ecological research is an urgent priority. To address this need, a group of social, earth, and life scientists associated with the National Science Foundation's (NSF) Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Network have articulated a conceptual framework for understanding the human dimensions of ecological change for the LTER Network. This framework explicitly advocates that what is often divided into "natural" and human systems be considered a single, complex social-ecological system (SES). In this paper, we propose a list of core social science research areas, concepts, and questions; identify the need for multiscale investigatory frameworks crucial for implementing integrated research; and suggest practical approaches for integration. In sum, this paper is a general outline for empirical and cross-site research projects where investigators agree that bringing together social, biological, and earth scientists can lead to synthetic approaches and a unified understanding of the mechanisms regulating SES. Although the motivation for this goal is specific to the LTER Network and similar projects, we believe that the issues and ideas presented here are widely applicable to other interdisciplinary SES studies.
3658729|How can decision makers reconcile the demand for increasingly reliable services drawn from the environment (including water and power) with the desire for both a better environment and more environmental amenities? In this paper, which is based on US case studies of ecosystem rehabilitation initiatives in the San Francisco Bay-Delta, the Columbia River Basin in the Pacific Northwest, and the Florida Everglades, we focus on several notable problems in current management practice. We assess the role of adaptive management and identify five areas of major innovation by which ecologists and the authorities that operate large water and hydropower systems attempt to reconcile the tension between maintaining service reliability and promoting ecological rehabilitation. The implications of the findings for a wider framework within which ecosystems can be matched to the most appropriate management regime are related specifically to aquatic-terrestrial ecosystems. Finally, we emphasize the importance of redefining ecosystem functions and services so that the inherent conflict between high-reliability services and ecosystem rehabilitation can be reconciled.
41505935|Following fire, fine-scale variation in early successional vegetation and soil nutrients may influence development of ecosystem structure and function. We studied conifer forests burned by stand-replacing wildfire in Greater Yellowstone (Wyoming, USA) to address two questions: (1) How do the variability and spatial structure of aboveground cover and soil nitrogen availability change during the first 4 years following stand-replacing fire? (2) At fine scales (2-20 m), are postfire soil inorganic N pools and fluxes related to aboveground cover? Aboveground cover, soil N pools, and annual net N transformations were measured from 2001 to 2004 using a spatially explicit sampling design in four 0.25-ha plots that burned during summer 2000. Within-stand variability (coefficient of variation) in postfire live vegetative cover declined with time since fire, whereas variability in bare mineral soil, charred litter and fresh litter was greatest 2-3 years postfire. The soil nitrate pool was more variable than the soil ammonium pool, but annual net nitrification was less variable than annual net N mineralization. Spatial structure (quantified by semivariograms) was observed in some aboveground cover variables (for example, graminoids and fresh litter), but there was little spatial structure in soil N variables and no obvious congruence in spatial scales of autocorrelation for soil N and aboveground cover. Significant Spearman correlations (at the sample point) indicated that aboveground cover and soil N were coupled following severe fire, and the dominant influence was from aboveground cover to soil N, rather than from soil N to vegetation. Initial patterns of fire severity and re-vegetation contributed to fine-scale heterogeneity in soil N availability for at least 4 years after severe fire.
27823741|The dynamics of a community are said to be compensatory if aggregate biomass is less variable over time than the biomass of the individual components of the system. In broad terms, the presence of compensation reflects interactions between components that tend to stabilize the overall community. A common quantitative measure used to detect compensation is the ratio of the temporal variance of total biomass to the sum of the biomass variances of the components, with a ratio less than 1 indicative of compensation. The purpose of this note is to describe a test for compensation when the variance ratio is estimated from biomass time series data. The test involves a bootstrap procedure that accounts for serial correlation in biomass. Failure to account for positive serial correlation can lead to spurious detection of compensation. The test is illustrated using biomass data for fish stocks on George Bank.
3658760|Planktonic bacterial production in the tidal freshwater Hudson River is a major component of secondary productivity and is uncoupled from planktonic primary productivity. There are several major sources of allochthonous dissolved organic carbon (DOC) whose potential contribution to heterotrophic bacterial growth was examined with bioassays. Supply of DOC from the upper Hudson drainage basin and a large tributary in the mid-Hudson together comprise 70 kT DOC/year, which is the bulk of the DOC load to the tidal freshwater Hudson River. Two contrasting tidal wetlands contribute DOC to the main-stem river but were only a few percent of the tributary load even during summer low-flow conditions. The quantity of DOC released from fine sediments was intermediate to the other two loadings considered. Bacterial growth in bioassays receiving water from the sources varied, but differences in thymidine incorporation between reference and DOC sources were small, usually less than 2 nmol/L/h. Similarity in thymidine incorporation suggests that all sources of DOC were capable of supporting bacterial growth at approximately equal rates. Seasonal shifts in carbon availability were clear in several cases, for example, greater growth on wetland-derived DOC at times of peak plant productivity. Seasonal differences in tributary DOC bioavailability were not large despite the well-known seasonality of tributary inputs. Activities of a suite of extracellular enzymes were used as a biologically based characterization of DOC from the various sources. Shifts in allocation among enzymes were apparent, indicating that there are biologically relevant differences in composition among the sources. Fluorescence characteristics and absorbance per unit carbon also varied among sources, providing an independent confirmation of compositional differences among sources. The absence of large differences in bacterial productivity among sources suggests that growth is supported by a wide range of DOC, and the relative importance of the sources is probably related to the quantitative differences in inputs. Efforts to classify carbon supplies to ecosystems must recognize that organism plasticity in carbon use and physical mixing processes will both act to homogenize what might initially appear to be quite distinctive carbon inputs.
3659062|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) contains molecules that absorb light at various wavelengths. This chromophoric DOM (CDOM) influences the transmission of both visible and ultraviolet energy through water. The absorption of light by CDOM often causes structural changes that reduce its capacity to further absorb light, a process termed 'photobleaching'. A model was designed to assess photobleaching through the entire water column of lake ecosystems. The model uses lake morphometry and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentration in conjunction with a defined solar spectrum and experimentally measured photobleaching rates to compute the total water columm photobleaching. The model was initially applied to a theoretical 'average' lake using solar spectra for both the north (N) and south (S) temperate western hemispheres and variable DOC from 0.3 to
27823732|Ecological network analysis (ENA) is a modeling approach increasingly being used to examine food webs. However, most studies do not replicate networks, and a statistical evaluation of ENA is lacking. The major objectives of this study, therefore, were to evaluate statistically the effectiveness of ENA in detecting differences in food web properties and to compare ENA output with established community level indices. Quantitative trophic networks (n = 12) representing four high salt marsh ponds during three times (corresponding to low stress, high stress, and post-disturbance) were constructed from an extensive field sampling program augmented by literature values. Food webs of salt marsh ponds were used because these systems contain relatively simple food webs, have well defined boundaries, and allow for adequate replication. A null hypothesis was tested to determine how values of 12 indices from ENA output differed among the three stress/disturbance conditions (Ho: low stress = high stress = post-disturbance). Results of both ANOVA and Friedman's tests indicated most ENA indices were significantly different among the three stress/disturbance conditions. The amount of covariance among the indices was relatively low (7 of 66 were significant). Results were compared to differences in community indices (richness, evenness, and diversity) among the three stress/disturbance conditions. ENA output identified differences beyond those recognized by the community indices. Overall, networks were unique enough under different environmental conditions to provide statistically significant differences in ENA results. Our findings are supportive of the use of carefully constructed networks in food web analysis and for decision making in ecosystem-based management.
3658826|In many tropical and volcanic soils, phosphorus (P) availability is strongly influenced by geochemical sorption, which binds P to soil minerals. The aim of this study was to determine whether biological demand or soil sorption strength was the primary control over phosphate availability and retention in a wet tropical soil with high sorption capacity and low P availability. We added
25470368|Ecological succession has been the subject of intense study and debate throughout the history of ecology as conceptualizations of process were proposed and refined. Modern concepts view ecological succession as largely driven by bottom-up resource competition for light and nutrients. However, growing evidence shows that top-down effects of consumers can govern succession. These contrasting perspectives require synthesis. We offer such a synthesis by revitalizing the hypothesis that succession proceeds by abrupt transitions to alternative states or dynamic regimes. We present evidence from field sampling along two successional gradients in a New England old field aimed at identifying pattern, and from experimentation in the same field aimed at identifying process. Field sampling revealed that a competitive dominant plant existed in a mosaic with two distinct patch types of relative abundances ( 25% and > 30%). Competitive dominant plant abundance varied systematically with plant species diversity (evenness), and resource supply (light and soil nitrogen). The six-year field experiment tested for alternative regimes by systematic removal and staggered reintroduction of top predators. Long-term predator removal caused an abrupt and irreversible shift from a top-down to a bottom-up controlled regime with a breakpoint at approximately 25% relative abundance of the competitive dominant plant. This caused significant shifts in plant species evenness and resource supply (solar radiation and N mineralization rate). Moreover, the competitive dominant abundance, species evenness and resource supply in the two dynamic regimes matched levels in the different patch types in the field. We conclude that a single ecosystem can display both top-down and bottom-up control. Abrupt shifts in trophic control lead to abrupt changes in the rate of development of ecosystems consistent with a working hypothesis that succession proceeds via abrupt regime shifts.
3658721|A suite of physical processes controls the rate at which polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) concentrations change in Lake Michigan fauna. To the extent that these processes are homogenous in space, predator and forage fish species are exposed to the same water column and sediment concentrations of PCB in Lake Michigan, whereas exposure due to diet varies with trophic position. We can think of observed PCB concentrations in a particular species as realizations of an unknown process consisting of many sources of variability. Because all species are utilizing the resources of the same ecosystem, a component of variability of PCB concentration is shared by all organisms in the system, whereas other components are not. Individual species were modeled with parameters that were estimated as the overall, or reference mean and a shared rate of change, plus an individual species offset from that reference mean and shared rate of change. This approach allows species-specific differences to be manifest via the offset, whereas the shared components of variability are known with greater precision than would be possible if we considered only a single species. The objective of this work is to determine the extent to which observed declines in PCB concentrations in various species in the Lake Michigan ecosystem are similar and synchronous. A high degree of similarity and synchrony between species would imply a high degree of spatial homogeneity of the physical processes controlling PCB concentrations in Lake Michigan fauna. A lack of synchrony suggests that other factors, such as food web interactions or spatial patterns, may be important.
41505911|Herring (Clupea harengus) and sprat (Sprattus sprattus) are the key prey resources of common terns (Sterna hirundo) breeding in the Wadden Sea. Breeding success of the terns has been below average since 2002, coinciding with exceptionally low herring recruitment and sprat abundance. Time series of herring and sprat abundance in the North Sea and in the Wadden Sea were analyzed to explain long-term breeding success and chick development at two common tern breeding colonies. North Sea herring recruitment and sprat abundance in the Wadden Sea explained the largest part of common tern breeding success, both as single variables and in a multiple regression approach. Breeding success showed stronger correlations with herring recruitment indices derived from the North Sea region compared to the Wadden Sea. Also, herring and sprat abundance data explained more variability in breeding success than of more directly responding measures such as growth rate and maximum weight of chicks. Despite spatial and temporal incoherences between fish surveys and the common tern breeding season, breeding success of common terns reflected the abundance of their key prey fish beyond their foraging range and breeding season. We argue that the ecological connectivity between large- and small-scale herring abundance and the responsiveness of common tern breeding success is strong enough to establish a fish-seabird indicator system to be potentially valuable in monitoring and conservation.
40928236|Non-nitrogenous mineral nutrients may be an important constraint on forest productivity and belowground processes in many ecosystems. We measured responses of soil CO efflux (FCO), fine root production, and root-free incubation soil respiration to experimental additions of non-nitrogenous mineral nutrients (phosphorus (P) + potassium (K) fertilizer, dolomitic lime, and P + K plus lime) over 2 years in a sugar-maple-dominated forest in central Ontario; this region receives some of the highest anthropogenic nitrogen (N) inputs in North America, and evidence exists for co-limitation by P, magnesium (Mg), and calcium (Ca) of the growth of dominant trees. Soil amendments, in particular P + K fertilization, reduced FCO, fine root production and microbial respiration, with decreases in FCO of 28-51 % in fertilized compared to control plots. Partial regression analyses indicated that soil available P had a negative effect on FCO, fine root production, and microbial respiration, but detected no significant effects of N, Ca, or Mg. Path analysis further suggested that available P reduced both fine root production and microbial respiration, and that these effects were largely responsible for reduced FCO. There was also a residual direct negative relationship between available P and FCO, which may represent reduced metabolic activity of roots. The study indicates that P is a critical nutrient dominating belowground processes in an N-saturated forest ecosystem, and suggests that additions of P may enhance C sink strength in managed forests in part through reductions in soil CO efflux.
3658910|The capture and efficient use of limiting resources influence the competitive success of individual plant species as well as species diversity across resource gradients. In simulations, efficient nutrient acquisition or nutrient retention by species were key predictors of success when nutrients were limiting. Increased nutrient supply favored species with characteristics that improved light interception or light use. Ecological theory suggests that low diversity on fertile sites may be a consequence of competitive exclusion by one or a few species with superior light-interception characteristics. On infertile sites, competitive exclusion may be a function of superior nutrient-acquisition characteristics in species. At intermediate fertility, a shift from single-resource specialization to a balanced effort in the acquisition of multiple resources should allow for greater species diversity. Thus, a unimodal relationship between diversity and nutrient supply, vegetation biomass, or productivity is predicted. However, simulations demonstrated alternate relationships depending on the ecosystem characteristic to which diversity was compared. Diversity was greatest at intermediate total biomass but increased monotonically with net primary production and nitrogen (N) supply. The highest diversity occurred midrange on a scale of community-level leaf area to fine-root length ratios, which in the context of the model indicates that the vegetation as a whole was simultaneously limited by both N and light and that effort toward the acquisition of both resources is distributed in such a way that both resources are equally exploited. Diversity was lowered by the presence of species with a superior ability to sequester resources.
40296409|We re-visited a seven-stand boreal chronosequence west of Thompson, Manitoba, Canada, in which coarse woody debris (CWD) and its instantaneous decomposition were measured in 2000. New CWD measurements were performed in 2007, and tree inventories updated to provide mortality and snag failure data. These data were used to model CWD changes, compare methods of estimating decomposition, and infer possible fragmentation rates. Measured CWD was between 9.7 (in both the 77-and 43-year-old stands) and 80.4 (in the 18-yearold stand) Mg ha in 2007. Spatial variability was high; at most stands CWD levels had not changed significantly from 2000 to 2007. Tree mortality was a significant flux only in older stands, whereas snag fall rate varied by an order of magnitude, from 2.9% y (0.2 Mg ha y) in the 9-year-old stand to 9.8% y (2.3 Mg ha y ) in the 12-year-old stand. A one-pool model based on these inputs underestimated actual 2000-2007 CWD decomposition in the younger stands, suggesting that fragmentation could be an important part of the carbon flux exiting the CWD pool. We compared three independent measures of annual decomposition (k): direct measurements of CWD respiration, rates based on the 7-year re-sampling effort described here, and rates inferred from the chronosequence design itself. Mean k values arrived at via these techniques were 0.06  0.03, 0.05  0.04, and 0.05  0.05 y , respectively. The four-pool model suggested that the transition rate between decay classes was 0.14-0.19 y ; the model was most sensitive to initial CWD values. Although the computed k values implied a problem with chronosequence site selection for at least one site, the overall CWD trend was consistent with a larger number of sites surveyed in the region.
41505990|Grasslands are globally widespread and capable of storing large amounts of carbon (C) in soils, and are generally experiencing increasing atmospheric CO, nitrogen (N) deposition, and biodiversity losses. To better understand whether grasslands will act as C sources or sinks in the future we measured microbial respiration in long-term laboratory incubations of soils collected from a grassland field experiment after 9 years of factorial treatment of atmospheric CO, N deposition, and plant species richness on a deep and uniformly sandy soil. We fit microbial soil respiration rates to three-pool models of soil C cycling to separate treatment effects on decomposition and pool sizes of fast, slow, and resistant C pools. Elevated CO decreased the mean residence time (MRT) of slow C pools without affecting their pool size. Decreasing diversity reduced the size and MRT of fast C pools (comparing monocultures to plots planted with 16 species), but increased the slow pool MRT. N additions increased the size of the resistant pool. These effects of CO, N, and species-richness treatments were largely due to plant biomass differences between the treatments. We found no significant interactions among treatments. These results suggest that C sequestration in sandy grassland soils may not be strongly influenced by elevated CO or species losses. However, high N deposition may increase the amount of resistant C in these grasslands, which could contribute to increased C sequestration.
25622895|Floodplains in the Pacific Coastal Ecoregion (PCE) stem from steep eroding mountain landscapes in a rain forest environment, and sustain a rich array of natural resources. Like floodplains elsewhere, many of the approximately 200 coastal river valleys are profoundly altered by flow regulation and land conversion for agriculture and urban development, and these activities have contributed to widespreas declines in anadromous fishes and environmental quality. Some of the coastal river valleys, however, still retain many of their natural features, thereby providing important reference sites. Understanding fundamental biophysical processes underpinning natural floodplain characteristics is essential for successfully protecting and restoring ecological integrity, including inherent goods and services. This article examines factors underpinning the ecological characteristics of PCE floodplains, particularly riparian soils and trees. Drawing on over two decades of research and literature, we describe the spatial and temporal characteristics of physical features for alluvial PCE floodplains, examine the importance of sediment deposition and associated biogeochemical processes in floodplain soil formation, quantify vegetative succession and production dynamics of riparian trees, discuss how epiphytes, marine-derived nutrients, and soil processes contribute to tree production, describe the roles and importance of large dead wood in the system, the role of termites in its rapid decomposition, and show how large wood contributes to vegetative succession. These highly interconnected features and associated processes are summarized in a model of system-scale drivers and changes occurring over several centuries. Collectively, this integrated perspective has strong implications for floodplain rehabilitation, and we identify appropriate metrics for evaluating floodplain condition and functions. We draw heavily from our own experience on several well-studied rivers, recognizing additional studies are needed to evaluate the generality of concepts presented herein. As in any complex adaptive system, fundamental uncertainties remain and constraints imposed by the legacies of past human actions persist. Nevertheless, the evolving knowledge base is improving conservation strategies of lightly modified floodplains and is supporting the incorporation of emerging process-based perspectives into the rehabilitation of heavily modified systems.
41413965|Methods to detect and quantify shifts in the state of ecosystems are increasingly important as global change drivers push more systems toward thresholds of change. Temporal relationships between precipitation and aboveground net primary production (ANPP) have been studied extensively in arid and semiarid ecosystems, but rarely has spatial variation in these relationships been investigated at a landscape scale, and rarely has such information been viewed as a resource for mapping the distribution of different ecological states. We examined the broad-scale effects of a shift from grassland to shrubland states on spatiotemporal patterns of remotely sensed ANPP proxies in the northern Chihuahuan Desert. We found that the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), when averaged across an eight-year period, did not vary significantly between these states, despite changes in ecosystem attributes likely to influence water availability to plants. In contrast, temporal relationships between precipitation and time-integrated NDVI (NDVI-I) modeled on a per-pixel basis were sensitive to spatial variation in shrub canopy cover, a key attribute differentiating ecological states in the region. The slope of the relationship between annual NDVI-I and 2-year cumulative precipitation was negatively related to, and accounted for 71% of variation in, shrub canopy cover estimated at validation sites using high spatial resolution satellite imagery. These results suggest that remote sensing studies of temporal precipitation-NDVI relationships may be useful for deriving shrub canopy cover estimates in the region, as well as for mapping other ecological state changes characterized by shifts in long-term ANPP, plant functional type dominance, or both.
25622887|Peatlands store 30% of the world's terrestrial soil carbon (C) and those located at northern latitudes are expected to experience rapid climate warming. We monitored growing season carbon dioxide (CO) fluxes across a factorial design of in situ water table (control, drought, and flooded plots) and soil warming (control vs. warming via open top chambers) treatments for 2 years in a rich fen located just outside the Bonanza Creek Experimental Forest in interior Alaska. The drought (lowered water table position) treatment was a weak sink or small source of atmospheric CO compared to the moderate atmospheric CO sink at our control. This change in net ecosystem exchange was due to lower gross primary production and light-saturated photosynthesis rather than increased ecosystem respiration. The flooded (raised water table position) treatment was a greater CO sink in 2006 due largely to increased early season gross primary production and higher light-saturated photosynthesis. Although flooding did not have substantial effects on rates of ecosystem respiration, this water table treatment had lower maximum respiration rates and a higher temperature sensitivity of ecosystem respiration than the control plot. Surface soil warming increased both ecosystem respiration and gross primary production by approximately 16% compared to control (ambient temperature) plots, with no net effect on net ecosystem exchange. Results from this rich fen manipulation suggest that fast responses to drought will include reduced ecosystem C storage driven by plant stress, whereas inundation will increase ecosystem C storage by stimulating plant growth.
43677516|Grasslands support large populations of herbivores and store up to 30% of the world's soil carbon (C). Thus, herbivores likely play an important role in the global C cycle. However, most studies on how herbivory impacts the largest source of C released from grassland soilssoil carbon dioxide (CO) emissionsonly considered the role of large ungulates. This ignores all other vertebrate and invertebrate herbivores and their collective effects on ecosystem properties. We progressively excluded large, medium, and small vertebrates and invertebrates from two subalpine grasslands (productive, heavily grazed short-grass; less productive, lightly grazed tall-grass) using size-selective fences, assessed the impact on soil CO emissions and related biotic and abiotic variables. Exclusion resulted in significant changes in soil CO emissions in both vegetation types. Short-grass soil CO emissions progressively increased when large and medium mammals were excluded. However, no difference was detected among plots were all or no herbivores grazed. In contrast, tall-grass soil CO emissions were not affected by mammal exclusion, but excluding all herbivores lead to reduced emissions. Soil micro-climatic parameters best predicted the patterns of soil CO emissions in short-grass vegetation, whereas root biomass was the best predictor of CO release in tall-grass vegetation. Our results showed that diverse herbivore communities affect soil respiration differently than assumed from previous studies that only excluded large ungulates. Such information is important if we are to understand how changes in herbivore species compositionas could happen through altered management practices, extinction or invasionimpact grassland C storage and release.
40603630|Despite the frequent citation of wetlands as effective regulators of water quality, few quantitative estimates exist for their cumulative retention of the annual river loads of nutrients or sediments. Here we report measurements of sediment accretion and associated carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus accumulation as sedimentation over feldspar marker horizons placed on floodplains of the non-tidal, freshwater Coastal Plain reaches of seven rivers in the Chesapeake Bay watershed, USA. We then scale these accumulation rates to the entire extent of non-tidal floodplain in the Coastal Plain of each river, defined as riparian area extending from the Fall Line to the upper limit of tidal influence, and compare them to annual river loads. Floodplains accumulated a very large amount of material compared to their annual river loads of sediment (median among rivers = 119%), nitrogen (24%), and phosphorus (59%). Systems with larger floodplain areas and longer floodplain inundation retained greater proportions of riverine loads of nitrogen and phosphorus, but systems with larger riverine loads retained a smaller proportion of that load on floodplains. Although the source and longterm fate of deposited sediment and associated nutrients are uncertain, these fluxes represent the interception of large amounts of material that otherwise could have been exported downstream.Coastal Plain floodplain ecosystems are important regulators of sediment, carbon, and nutrient transport in watersheds of the Chesapeake Bay.
3658632|The relationship between soil nitrogen (N) availability and plant community structure was investigated in old-fields in the shortgrass steppe of Colorado. Nitrogen availability was manipulated by N or sucrose additions for 4 years at three old-fields (early-seral, mid-seral, and late-seral) and at an uncultivated control site. The addition of N generally resulted in increased abundance of annual forbs and grasses relative to perennials at all of the previously cultivated sites. Conversely, experimental reduction of N availability generally increased the relative abundance of perennials. Despite a lack of detectable differences in N mineralization between sites and treatments, ion-exchange resin bags confirmed that sucrose additions reduced plant-available N and that N additions increased plant-available N. This was evidenced further by similar observations for plant tissue N content. The degree to which N additions increased N availability at the various sites supported the idea that late-seral plant communities are less effective at N capture relative to earlier-seral communities. The mid-seral old-field had the lowest rates of litter decomposition and a relatively large accumulation of litter on the soil surface. This mid-seral old-field was dominated by an exotic annual grass (Bromus tectorum), which appears to be a major hindrance to redevelopment of the plant-soil system. By experimentally reducing N availability at this stage, we were able, in 4 years, to change the plant community into one that more closely resembled the late-seral community. We also observed that the natural recruitment of weedy annual species on the uncultivated site during an unusually wet year was suppressed by reducing N availability. Our results suggest that available N is an important factor controlling the rate and course of plant and soil community redevelopment on abandoned croplands in the shortgrass steppe, and that manipulation of N availability might be useful in restoration of rangeland vegetation.
23501436|Open top chambers (OTCs) and infrared (IR) lamps have been widely used for experimentally warming ecosystems, especially in high latitude and alpine regions. The efficacy of OTCs and IR lamps is variable, yet there has not been a direct, experimentally controlled comparison of these warming methods. We, therefore, implemented a factorial study in a northern Michigan peatland to test how warming and microtopography interacted to affect micrometeorological parameters and CO 2 and CH 4 flux rates. IR lamps significantly warmed the soil (5 cm depth; P < 0.05) by 1.4 and 1.9C in 2009 and 2010, respectively, with the majority of warming occurring during nighttime hours. OTCs did not provide any long-term warming increase compared to control plots, which is contrary to OTC studies at high latitudes. By investigating diurnal heating patterns and micrometeorological variables, we determined that OTCs were not achieving strong daytime heating peaks and were often cooler than controls during nighttime hours. Temperate day-length, cloudy and humid conditions, and latent heat loss were factors that may have inhibited OTC warming. Warming treatments created mixed effects on gas flux components. Within drier, hummock plots, IR lamps significantly increased gross ecosystem production (GEP) but not ecosystem respiration (ER), whereas OTCs had no effect on GEP or ER in hummocks. In wetter, lawn plots, warming treatments had no effect on CO 2 flux or CH4 flux. We show here that IR lamps are more effective than OTCs for studying how temperate peatlands may respond to increased temperatures.
3658618|Chronic human activities may result in new and permanent successional trajectories in certain ecosystems. The invasion of longleaf pine ecosystems by sand pine in the Florida Panhandle is one such change in the landscape. This study examined the spatial pattern of sand pine expansion and explored the natural and anthropogenic disturbances that fostered this invasion. Aerial photographs (1949, 1994) and Geographic Information Systems analyses confirmed sand pine expansion at Eglin Air Force Base. In 1949, there were 8,982 ha of sand pine in the southern portion of the study area near riparian and coastal lowland forests. By 1994, sand pine had expanded further upland and inland, for a total of 17,147 ha in the study area. Sand pine age data showed that this expansion had started by 1920 but increased rapidly in the 1940s. Historical accounts and structural data from stands suggest that land-use activities associated with the extraction of turpentine promoted the invasion by sand pine. Fires were suppressed in longleaf pine forests to protect turpentine trees, resulting in increased vegetation cover and decreased regeneration of longleaf pine. In addition, stands were typically harvested after turpentining, and there was little or no advanced regeneration of longleaf pine. Sand pine age histograms showed that the onset of high establishment rates (1940s) coincided with changes in land ownership and widespread fire suppression. Sand pine is likely to persist in these ecosystems due to its abundant regeneration.
40296386|Fire disturbance patterns influence forest communities at a range of spatial scales. Forest community structure may also influence fire disturbance patterns, because tree species vary in their fuel value and in their tolerance to fire damage. However, the influence of community structure on fire disturbance likely depends on latent ecological differences between fires and on the spatial scale at which patterns are observed. Using data on fire intensity, community structure, and post-fire tree survival in four systematically sampled boreal forest fires, we tested the hypotheses that: (1) patterns in post-fire tree survival reflect interactions between fire intensity and community structure; (2) these relationships change with the spatial scale of observation. To test the first hypothesis, we used information theoretic methods to compare eight generalized linear mixed effects models describing the influence of community structure and fire intensity on tree survival in a 500 m sample plot, accounting for latent fire-to-fire differences in response. To test the scaling hypothesis, we reaveraged the data at nine successively larger spatial resolutions up to approximately 2 km, at each resolution tracking the parameter values of the best model. When fit to the plot-level data, the dominant feature of the best model was a strong intensity-survival correlation which varied from fire to fire, and depended on plot-level community structure. In some fires, community structure and survival became more tightly coupled at larger scales, whereas fire intensity became less important. These results support the view that fire disturbance patterns are influenced by cross-scale interactions between community structure and fire intensity.
25053841|Increased nitrogen (N) loading to lotic ecosystems may cause fundamental changes in the ability of streams and rivers to retain or remove N due to the potential for N saturation. Lotic ecosystems will saturate with sustained increases in the N load, but it is unclear at what point saturation will occur. Rates of N transformation in lotic ecosystems will vary depending on the total N load and whether it is an acute or chronic N load. Nitrogen saturation may not occur with only pulsed or short-term increases in N. Overall, saturation of microbial uptake will occur prior to saturation of denitrification of N and denitrification will become saturated prior to nitrification, exacerbating increases in nitrate concentrations and in N export downstream. The rate of N export to downstream ecosystems will increase proportionally to the N load once saturation occurs. Long term data sets showed that smaller lotic ecosystems have a greater capacity to remove in-stream N loads, relative to larger systems. Thus, denitrification is likely to become less important as a N loss mechanism as the stream size increases. There is a great need for long-term studies of N additions in lotic ecosystems and clear distinctions need to be made between ecosystem responses to short-term or periodic increases in N loading and alterations in ecosystem functions due to chronic N loading.
41505933|Arctic tundra vegetation composition is expected to undergo rapid changes during the coming decades because of changes in climate. Higher air temperatures generally favor growth of deciduous shrubs, often at the cost of moss growth. Mosses are considered to be very important to critical tundra ecosystem processes involved in water and energy exchange, but very little empirical data are available. Here, we studied the effect of experimental moss removal on both understory evapotranspiration and ground heat flux in plots with either a thin or a dense low shrub canopy in a tundra site with continuous permafrost in Northeast Siberia. Understory evapotranspiration increased with removal of the green moss layer, suggesting that most of the understory evapotranspiration originated from the organic soil layer underlying the green moss layer. Ground heat flux partitioning also increased with green moss removal indicating the strong insulating effect of moss. No significant effect of shrub canopy density on understory vapotranspiration was measured, but ground heat flux partitioning was reduced by a denser shrub canopy. In summary, our results show that mosses may exert strong controls on understory water and heat fluxes. Changes in moss or shrub cover may have important consequences for summer permafrost thaw and concomitant soil carbon release in Arctic tundra ecosystems.
41413972|A key aspect of savannah vegetation heterogeneity is mosaics formed by two functional grassland types, bunch grasslands, and grazing lawns. We investigated the role of termites, important ecosystem engineers, in creating high-nutrient patches in the form of grazing lawns. Some of the ways termites can contribute to grazing lawn development is through erosion of soil from aboveground mounds to the surrounding soil surface. This may alter the nutrient status of the surrounding soils. We hypothesize that the importance of this erosion varies with termite genera, depending on feeding strategy and mound type. To test this, we simulated erosion by applying mound soil from three termite genera (Macrotermes, Odontotermes, and Trinerviter mes) in both a field experiment and a greenhouse experiment. In the greenhouse experiment, we found soils with the highest macro nutrient levels (formed by Trinervitermes) promoted the quality and biomass of both a lawn (Digitaria longiflora) and a bunch (Sporobolus pyramidalis) grass species. In the field we found that soils with the highest micro nutrient levels (formed by Macrotermes) showed the largest increase in cover of grazing lawn species. By linking the different nutrient availability of the mounds to the development of different grassland states, we conclude that the presence of termite mounds influences grassland mosaics, but that the type of mound plays a crucial role in determining the nature of the effects.
40296281|In systems ranging from lakes and woodlands to coral reefs, the long-term ecosystem state may often be determined largely by rare extreme events such as wet ENSO years, droughts, or disease outbreaks. Such events can flip these systems into a contrasting state that represents either an alternative attractor or a transient that is slow enough to persist even if the frequency of events that push the system to this state is low. Here we show that escape from herbivores is a mechanism that can play a role in several state shifts of this kind. This can happen if plants become less susceptible to herbivory as they grow. Using a model we show that, surprisingly, this mechanism can lead to a situation where a brief resource pulse for plants may invoke a persistent shift to a high biomass state whereas gradual enrichment to the same resource level is insufficient to allow such a change. This counterintuitive phenomenon occurs if the numerical response of herbivores is sufficiently slow to allow the plants to use the resource pulse to escape to a safe biomass at which herbivory is reduced. Our results imply that rates of environmental change can sometimes be more important than their magnitude. This has many ramifications. On the conceptual side, our findings suggest that key mechanisms that regulate long-term ecosystem dynamics are easily missed by the traditional focus of modelers on equilibria. A more practical corollary is that increased climatic variability may have more profound effects in some ecosystems than gradual change in conditions.
25470394|Best-practice environmental policy often suggests co-management of marine resources as a means of achieving sustainable development. Here we consider the impacts of superimposing co-management policy, in the form of territorial user rights for fishers over an existing traditional community-based natural-resource management system in Chile. We consider a broad definition of co-management that includes a spectrum of arrangements between governments and user groups described by different levels of devolution of power. We used participatory rural appraisal techniques and questionnaires to understand the mechanisms that underpin the traditional management system for the bull-kelp "cochayuyo" (Durvillaea antarctica). Traditional management was based on the allocation of informal access rights through a lottery system. This system was controlled by a complex web of traditional institutions that were shown to be successful in terms of equity and resilience. Using a similar approach, we analyzed the effects of superimposing a government-led co-management policy into this traditional system. Two major effects of the new policy were encountered. First, traditional institutions were weakened, which had negative effects on the levels of trust within the community and intensified conflict among users. Second, the management system's adaptive capacity was reduced, thereby jeopardizing the ecosystem's resilience. Our results suggest that the devolution of power to this kind of fisher community still has not reached the level required for fishers to legally address the local deficiencies of the Chilean co-management policy. Additionally, legal adjustments must be made to accommodate traditionally managed ecosystems that offer benefits comparable to those mandated under the formal policy. A fuller understanding of the interactions between co-management and traditional institutions can help us to identify ways to promote resilience and facilitate equal access by mitigating the potential negative effects of co-management policy and informing its future implementation.
25622904|Mangroves on Pacific high islands offer a number of important ecosystem services to both natural ecological communities and human societies. High islands are subjected to constant erosion over geologic time, which establishes an important source of terrigeneous sediment for nearby marine communities. Many of these sediments are deposited in mangrove forests and offer mangroves a potentially important means for adjusting surface elevation with rising sea level. In this study, we investigated sedimentation and elevation dynamics of mangrove forests in three hydrogeomorphic settings on the islands of Kosrae and Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). Surface accretion rates ranged from 2.9 to 20.8 mm y, and are high for naturally occurring mangroves. Although mangrove forests in Micronesian high islands appear to have a strong capacity to offset elevation losses by way of sedimentation, elevation change over 6 1/2 years ranged from -3.2 to 4.1 mm y, depending on the location. Mangrove surface elevation change also varied by hydrogeomorphic setting and river, and suggested differential, and not uniformly bleak, susceptibilities among Pacific high island mangroves to sea-level rise. Fringe, riverine, and interior settings registered elevation changes of -1.30, 0.46, and 1.56 mm y, respectively, with the greatest elevation deficit (-3.2 mm y) from a fringe zone on Pohnpei and the highest rate of elevation gain (4.1 mm y) from an interior zone on Kosrae. Relative to sea-level rise estimates for FSM (0.8-1.8 mm y) and assuming a consistent linear trend in these estimates, soil elevations in mangroves on Kosrae and Pohnpei are experiencing between an annual deficit of 4.95 mm and an annual surplus of 3.28 mm. Although natural disturbances are important in mediating elevation gain in some situations, constant allochthonous sediment deposition probably matters most on these Pacific high islands, and is especially helpful in certain hydrogeomorphic zones. Fringe mangrove forests are most susceptible to sea-level rise, such that protection of these outer zones from anthropogenic disturbances (for example, harvesting) may slow the rate at which these zones convert to open water.
25470393|Identifying the conditions and mechanisms that control ecosystem processes, such as net primary production, is a central goal of ecosystem ecology. Ideas have ranged from single limiting-resource theories to colimitation by nutrients and climate, to simulation models with edaphic, climatic, and competitive controls. Although some investigators have begun to consider the influence of land-use practices, especially cropping, few studies have quantified the impact of cropping at large scales relative to other known controls over ecosystem processes. We used a 9-year record of productivity, biomass seasonality, climate, weather, soil conditions, and cropping in the US Great Plains to quantify the controls over spatial and temporal patterns of net primary production and to estimate sensitivity to specific driving variables. We considered climate, soil conditions, and long-term average cropping as controls over spatial patterns, while weather and interannual cropping variations were used as controls over temporal variability. We found that variation in primary production is primarily spatial, whereas variation in seasonality is more evenly split between spatial and temporal components. Our statistical (multiple linear regression) models explained more of the variation in the amount of primary production than in its seasonality, and more of the spatial than the temporal patterns. Our results indicate that although climate is the most important variable for explaining spatial patterns, cropping explains a substantial amount of the residual variability. Soil texture and depth contributed very little to our models of spatial variability. Weather and cropping deviation both made modest contributions to the models of temporal variability. These results suggest that the controls over seasonality and temporal variation are not well understood. Our sensitivity analysis indicates that production is more sensitive to climate than to weather and that it is very sensitive to cropping intensity. In addition to identifying potential gaps in out knowledge, these results provide insight into the probable long-and short-term ecosystem response to changes in climate, weather, and cropping.
43677511|We studied production by three key pelagic energy mobilizer communities, phytoplankton (PP), heterotrophic bacteria (HB), and methanotrophic bacteria (MOB), in five boreal lakes of varying size and concentration of dissolved organic carbon (DOC). Production by PP was responsible for most (> 55%) of the total pelagic energy mobilization in all five lakes. Production by HB and PP estimated for the whole water column during the ice-free period were positively correlated, but with the exception of the clearest and most eutrophic lake PP apparently could not support the total carbon demand of bacteria. However, the DOC concentration did not explain the variability of heterotrophic bacterial production (HBP) within or between the lakes. Thus, our results provide circumstantial evidence for the "priming effect" whereby labile organic matter from autochthonous production enhances decomposition of allochthonous DOC. However, HBP was only 10-23% of the total pelagic energy mobilization in the lakes, suggesting that only a minor fraction of allochthonous DOC became available for higher trophic levels. High MOB activity was detected in the water columns of the stratified lakes when the molar ratio of CH:O varied between 0.5 and 12. In the small stratified lakes (area < 0.01 km), MOB production contributed 13-52% of the total pelagic energy mobilization, being greatest during the autumn mixing period. Our results indicate that in small stratified lakes (area < 0.01 km) bacteria, especially MOB, are potentially quantitatively important supplementary food resources for zooplankton. However, in larger lakes primary producers are the most important (> 70%) potential food source for zooplankton.
43677509|We evaluated the potential contribution of allochthonous biomass subsidies to the upper trophic levels of offshore food webs in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico (GOM). We made this evaluation considering nitrogen, an essential and often limiting nutrient in coastal ecosystems, to estimate the potential production of within-ecosystem biomass relative to the known import of biomass from an adjacent seagrass-dominated ecosystem. When adjusted for trophic transfer efficiency, we found the biomass subsidy from a single species (pinfish, Lagodon rhomboides) from nearshore seagrass habitat to the offshore GOM to be greater than the amount of nitrogen exported by two major rivers and local submarine ground water discharge. Our calculations show that seagrass-derived biomass accounts for approximately 25% of the total potential production in the northeastern GOM. This estimate is in agreement with a previous study that found 18.5-25% of the biomass in a predatory reef fish was derived from seagrass biomass inputs. These results indicate that all of the sources we consider account for the majority of the nitrogen available to the food web in the northeastern GOM. Our approach could be adapted to other coupled ecosystems to determine the relative importance of biomass subsidies to coastal ocean food webs.
3658757|Understanding human disturbance regimes is crucial for developing effective conservation and ecosystem management plans and for targeting ecological research to areas that define scarce ecosystem services. We evaluate and develop a forecasting model for land-use change in the Southern Appalachians. We extend previous efforts by (a) addressing the spatial diffusion of human populations, approximated by building density, (b) examining a long time period (40 years, which is epochal in economic terms), and (c) explicitly testing the forecasting power of the models. The resulting model, defined by linking a negative binomial regression model of building density with a logit model of land cover, was fit using spatially referenced data from four study sites in the Southern Appalachians. All fitted equations were significant, and coefficient estimates indicated that topographic features as well as location significantly shape population diffusion and land use across these landscapes. This is especially evident in the study sites that have experienced development pressure over the last 40 years. Model estimates also indicate significant spatial autocorrelation in land-use observations. Forecast performance of the models was evaluated by using a separate validation data set for each study area. Depending on the land-use classification scheme, the models correctly predicted between 68% and 89% of observed land uses. Tests based on information theory reject the hypothesis that the models have no explanatory power, and measures of entropy and information gain indicate that the estimated models explain between 47% and 66% of uncertainty regarding land-use classification. Overall, these results indicate that modeling land-cover change alone may not be useful over the long run, because changing land cover reflects the outcomes of more than one human process (for example, agricultural decline and population growth). Here, additional information was gained by addressing the spatial spread of human populations. Furthermore, coarse-scale measures of the human drivers of landscape change (for example, population growth measured at the county level) appear to be poor predictors of changes realized at finer scales. Simulations demonstrate how this type of approach might be used to target scarce resources for conservation and research efforts into ecosystem effects.
41505896|The dominant conceptual model of nitrogen (N) saturation in forests predicts the temporal patterns of key N cycling indicators as an initially N-limited forest is progressively enriched in N. We present the results from a long-term N addition experiment in an oak forest in southeastern New York State, USA, which do not conform to the predictions of the conceptual model in several ways. In contrast to the predictions of the conceptual model, the foliar N concentrations in the N-treated stands of our study increased to about 20% above the levels in the control stands and then remained essentially constant, and nitrogen leaching from the treated stands increased almost immediately after the start of the experiment, prior to the onset of elevated nitrification. Concentrations of N in soil solution of the N-treated stands peaked at over 150-fold greater than the concentrations in the control stands. There were no significant changes in potential net N mineralization. Tree mortality increased in the treated stands, but the tree mortality did not appear to be the primary cause of the excess nitrate leaching. Based on these results and those of other recent studies, we present a new conceptual model of the N saturation process focused on the mass balance of N rather than the temporal dynamics of N cycling indicators. The mass balance is characterized by inputs of N from atmospheric deposition and fertilization, internal sinks in the vegetation and soils, and outputs to leaching and gaseous losses. The key points of the conceptual model are (1) added N can flow simultaneously to all sinks and losses in the system, (2) the fate of the added N and the temporal patterns of flow of N depend on the strength of the sinks and the factors that control them, and (3) the movement of N to the various sinks determines how N saturation is manifested in the ecosystem. We distinguish capacity N saturation, in which the sinks in the vegetation and soil are zero or negative, from kinetic N saturation, in which the sinks are positive but lower than the N input rate. The sink strengths in the vegetation and soil have two components, one due to carbon (C) accumulation in the system and the other due to change in the stoichiometry (C:N ratio) of the pool. Further work quantifying the magnitudes and controlling factors for the N sinks will allow better prediction of the dynamics of N saturation in different types of forested ecosystems.
40793005|The redistribution of water in semi-arid environments is critical for the maintenance and survival of vegetation patches. We used a systems approach to examine the interactive effects of three engineers Stipa tenadssima, biological soil crusts, and the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus)  on infiltration processes in a model gypseous semi-arid Mediterranean grassland. We measured the early (sorptivity) and later (steady-state infiltration) stages of infiltration at two supply potentials using disk permeameters, which allowed us to determine the relative effects of different engineers and soil micropores on water flow through large macropores. We detected few effects under tension when flow was restricted to matrix pores, but under ponding, sorptivity and steady-state infiltration adjacent to Stipa tussocks were 2-3 times higher than in intact or rabbit-disturbed biological soil crusts. Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) showed that both Stipa and biological soil crust cover exerted substantial and equal positive effects on infiltration under ponding, whereas indirectly, rabbit disturbance negatively affected infiltration by reducing crust cover. Under tension, when macropores were prevented from conducting water, Stipa had a direct negative effect and biological soil crust cover was relatively unimportant. More complex SEM models demonstrated that (1) Stipa primarily influenced biological soil crusts by reducing their richness, (2) rabbits exerted a small negative effect on crust richness, and (3) lichens were negatively, and mosses positively, correlated with a derived "infiltration" axis. Our results highlight the importance of biological soil crusts as key players in the maintenance of infiltration processes in Stipa grasslands, and demonstrate the modulating role played by rabbits through their surface disturbances.
3658980| The Wind River old-growth forest, in the southern Cascade Range of Washington State, is a cool (average annual temperature, 8.7C), moist (average annual precipitation, 2223 mm), 500-year-old Douglas-fir-western hemlock forest of moderate to low productivity at 371-m elevation on a less than 10% slope. There is a seasonal snowpack (November-March), and rain-on-snow and freezing-rain events are common in winter. Local geology is characterized by volcanic rocks and deposits of Micocene/Oligocene Micocene-Oligocene (mixed) Micocene and Quaternary age, as well as intrusive rocks of Miocene age. Soils are medial, mesic, Entic Vitrands that are deep (2-3 m), well drained, loams and silt loams, generally stone free, and derived from volcanic tephra. The vegetation is transitional, between the Western Hemlock Zone and the Pacific Silver Fir Zone, and the understory is dominated by vine maple, salal, and Oregon grape. Stand structural parameters have been measured on a 4-ha plot. There are eight species of conifers, with a stand density of
43677522|Closely integrated research between archaeologists and ecologists provides a long-term view of human land use that is rare in the ecological literature, allowing for investigation of activities that lead to enduring environmental outcomes. This extended temporal perspective is particularly important in aridlands where succession occurs slowly and ecosystem processes are mediated by abiotic, geomorphic factors. Numerous studies show that impacts from ancient human actions can persist, but few have explored the types of practices or mechanisms that lead to either transient or long-term environmental change. We compared plant and soil properties and processes from a range of landscape patch types in the Sonoran Desert of the US Southwest that supported different, well-documented prehistoric farming practices from AD 750-1300. Our results show that the types of ancient human activities that leave long-term ecological legacies in aridlands are those that fundamentally alter "slow variables" such as soil properties that regulate the timing and supply of water. Prehistoric Hohokam floodwater-irrigation practices, but not dryland farming techniques, substantially altered soil texture, which was strongly associated with desert plant community and functional composition. However, prehistoric agriculture did not consistently alter long-term nutrient availability and thus had no impact on "fast variables" such as production of seasonal annual plants that are restricted to periods of ample rainfall. In this arid ecosystem, the inverse texture model explained patterns in plant functional composition at large scales, but is less predictive of production of shortlived desert annuals that experience a more mesic precipitation regime.
40603663|Mangrove forests are rapidly expanding their distribution in New Zealand, which is at the southern limit of their range. We investigated how these expanding mangrove forests develop through time. We assessed patterns in forest structure and function at the Firth of Thames, which is a rapidly accreting mangrove site in New Zealand where 1 km of mangrove of Avicennia marina has established seaward since the 1950s. Across the intertidal region, mangrove forest structure was highly variable. We used bomb-pulse radiocarbon dating to age the forest. Two major forest establishment events were identified; one in 1978-1981 and another in 1991-1995. These events coincided with sustained El Nio activity and are likely the result of reduced wind and wave energy at the site during these periods. We used the two forests of different ages to assess whether mangroves in New Zealand mature at similar rates as other mangroves and whether they conform to classic models of succession. The timing of forest maturation is similar in New Zealand as in more tropical locations with trees exhibiting features of mature forests as they age from about 10 to about 30 years. In older forest (~ 30 years old) trees become larger and stands more homogenous than in the younger forest (~ 10 years old). Carbon and nutrient concentrations in soils increased and soils become more aerobic in older forest compared to younger forest. Additionally, using fertilization experiments, we established that despite reduced growth rates in older forests, nitrogen remained limiting to growth in both older and young forests. However, in contrast to classic successional models leaf tissue nutrient concentrations and nutrient conservation (nutrient rsorption from senescence leaf tissue) were similar in forests of differing ages and did not vary with fertilization. We conclude that mangrove forest expansion in New Zealand is influenced by climatic factors. Mangrove forests mature rapidly, even at the limits of their range and they satisfy many of the successional patterns predicted by Odum (1969) for the early stages of forest succession.
3658745| Many biological functions of soil organisms are replaced in intensive agricultural systems, but earthworms and other soil invertebrates may continue to have significant effects on nutrient cycling in these disturbed systems. We investigated the influence of earthworms on leaching of water and nitrogen in corn (Zea mays L.) agroecosystems in a long-term (6-year) field experiment in Wooster, Ohio, USA. We employed a split-plot experimental design in which main plots received one of three nutrient treatments (cow manure, legume-grass mixture, inorganic fertilizer) and contained three 4.5  4.5-m field enclosures in which earthworm populations were increased, decreased, or unmodified. We installed zero-tension lysimeters beneath enclosures with increased or decreased populations and collected leachates regularly in 1996, analyzing them for water volume and concentrations of NH
25053800|A coupled energy and water balance model is used to simulate the effects of large tree canopies on soil moisture and water stress across a series of sites spanning a regional moisture gradient in southern Africa. The model tracks evapotranspiration from five components of the land surface at each site-the tree canopy, the grass under and between tree canopies, and the bare soil under and between tree canopies. The soil moisture dynamics are simulated at daily time steps and driven by a stochastic model of storm arrivals and storm depth. Evapotranspiration is modeled using the Priestley-Taylor approach, with potential evapotranspiration scaled by soil moisture availability. The soil moisture under tree canopies is compared to the soil moisture between tree canopies, and differences in average annual soil moisture stress conditions are analyzed at each site. The spatial distribution of large trees has important consequences for small-scale soil moisture dynamics across the rainfall gradient. The results indicate that tree canopies serve to reduce soil moisture stress of under-canopy vegetation in the middle of the rainfall gradient. At the dry end of the rainfall gradient, the effect of tree canopies on soil moisture is dependent on the amount of rainfall received in a given growing season.
3658640|Despite the widely recognized importance of disturbance in accelerating the loss of elements from land, there have been few empirical studies of the effects of natural disturbances on nitrogen (N) dynamics in forest ecosystems. We were provided the unusual opportunity for such study, partly because the intensively monitored watersheds at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF), New Hampshire, experienced severe canopy damage following an ice storm. Here we report the effects of this disturbance on internal N cycling and loss for watershed 1 (W1) and watershed 6 (W6) at the HBEF and patterns of N loss from nine other severely damaged watersheds across the southern White Mountains. This approach allowed us to test one component of N limitation theory, which suggests that N losses accompanying natural disturbances can lead to the maintenance of N limitation in temperate zone forest ecosystems. Prior to the ice storm, fluxes of nitrate
3658927|The introduction of fish into high-elevation lakes can provide a geographic and demographic boost to their invasion of stream networks, thereby further endangering the native stream fauna. Increasingly, remaining populations of native salmonids are concentrated in fragmented headwater refugia that are protected by physical or biological barriers from introduced fishes that originate in the pervasive source populations established at lower elevations. Although fish introduced near mainstem rivers frequently encounter obstacles to upstream dispersal, such as steep slopes or falls, we found that brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) dispersed downstream through channel slopes of 80% and 18-m-high falls. Thus, headwater lake stocking provides source populations that may be capable of invading most downstream habitats, including headwater refugia of native fishes. The extent of additional area invasible from lakes, beyond that invasible from downstream, depends on the geography of the stream network, particularly the density and distribution of headwater lakes and their location relative to barriers inhibiting upstream dispersal. In the thermal and trophic environments downstream of lakes, fish commonly grow faster and thus mature earlier and have higher fecundity-at-age than their counterparts in other high-elevation streams. The resulting higher rates of population growth facilitate invasion. Larger body sizes also potentially aid the fish in overcoming barriers to invasion. Trout introductions to high-elevation headwater lakes thus pose disproportionately large risks to native fishes-even when the place of introduction may appear to be spatially dissociated from populations of the native species. Mapping the potential invasible area can help to establish priorities in stocking and eradication efforts.
40296309|Early succession aspen and late succession conifer forests have different architecture and physiology affecting hydrologic transfer processes. An evaluation of water pools and fluxes was used to determine differences in the hydrologic dynamics between stands of quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) and associated stands of mixed conifer consisting of white fir (Abies concolor), Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), and Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii). In 2005 and 2006, measurements of snow water accumulation, snow ablation (melt), soil water content, snowpack sublimation, and evapotranspiration (ET) were measured in adjacent aspen and conifer stands. Peak snow water equivalent (SWE) averaged 34-44% higher in aspen in 2005 (average snow fall) and 2006 (above average snow fall), respectively, whereas snow ablation rates were greater in aspen stands (21 mm day) compared to conifer stands (11 mm day). When changes in soil water content (due to over-winter snowmelt) were combined with peak snow accumulation in 2006, aspen had greater potential (42-83%) water yield for runoff and groundwater recharge. Snowpack sublimation during the ablation period was not significantly different between meadow, aspen, and conifer sites and comprised less than 5% of the winter precipitation. Extended conifer transpiration in spring and fall did not contribute to large differences in water yield (< 28 mm y). Summertime ET rates were higher in aspen plots (3.6 mm day) than in conifer plots (2.7 mm day), and differences in net ET largely reflected soil column porosity. This study shows that the largest differences in annual water yield between aspen and conifer stands result from differences in SWE and net summertime ET. Although SWE and accumulation of water in soil was greater in aspen, it was partly offset by greater net annual ET losses in aspen.
40793004|Microbial immobilization of nitrogen (N) in litter from one year's production may cause oscillations in biomass production if it delays N availability the following year. We tested whether shoot and root litter and plant density affect biomass and seed production of populations of wild rice (Zizannia palustris L.) grown in 378 1 stock tank mesocosms over four consecutive years. Half the tanks were thinned to a uniform seedling density whereas density in the remaining tanks was allowed to fluctuate ad libitum. Litter treatments included both shoot litter removal, leaving only root litter, and retaining shoot litter intact with root litter. A separate greenhouse fertilizer experiment tested whether N and/or phosphorus (P) limited productivity. Responses to N additions were much stronger than to P additions. Annual production and N availability in the tanks were correlated with each other and followed a concurrent cycle from 2004 to 2008. Furthermore, production in tanks with shoot + root litter did not fluctuate more than tanks with only root litter. Root litter immobilized more nitrogen and for a longer period than shoot litter. Neither litter immobilized P. Density did not affect mean seed weight, total seed production, or mean plant weight, but total seed production declined in years following productive years and was high only following years of low litter production. Root litter may therefore be primarily responsible for the delays in N availability that cause cycles in biomass and seed production. Consequently, both wild rice litter quantity and quality play central roles in production and population dynamics of wild rice stands.
25470350|Deposition of reactive nitrogen (N) compounds has the potential to cause severe damage to sensitive soils and waters, but the process of 'nitrogen saturation' is difficult to demonstrate or predict. This study compares outputs from a simple carbon-nitrogen model with observations of (1) regional-and catchment-scale relationships between surface water nitrate and dissolved organic carbon (DOC), as an indicator of catchment carbon (C) pool; (2) inter-regional variations in soil C/N ratios; and (3) plot scale soil and leachate response to long-term N additions, for a range of UK moorlands. Results suggest that the simple model applied can effectively reproduce observed patterns, and that organic soil C stores provide a critical control on catchment susceptibility to enhanced N leaching, leading to high spatial variability in the extent and severity of current damage within regions of relatively uniform deposition. Results also support the hypothesis that the N richness of organic soils, expressed as C/N ratio, provides an effective indicator of soil susceptibility to enhanced N leaching. The extent to which current C/N is influenced by N deposition, as opposed to factors such as climate and vegetation type, cannot be unequivocally determined on the basis of spatial data. However, N addition experiments at moorland sites have shown a reduction in organic soil C/N. A full understanding of the mechanisms of N-enrichment of soils and waters is essential to the assessment of current sensitivity to, and prediction of future damage from, globally increasing reactive nitrogen deposition.
40603419|Forest fire regimes are likely to experience considerable changes in the European Alps due to climatic changes. However, little is known about the recent regional fire history and the impact of local climate on the fire regime during the 20th centuryWe therefore reconstructed the fire history in a dry continental valley of the Swiss Alps (Valais) over the past 100 years based on documentary evidence, and investigated the relationship between the reconstructed fire regime and the local climatic variability. We compared the impact of temperature, precipitation, drought and dry foehn winds on fire frequency, extent of burnt area, and fire seasonality on various spatial and temporal scales. In the subalpine zone, the fire regime appears to have been mainly driven by temperature and precipitation, whereas these variables seem to have played only a secondary role in the colline-montane zones. Here, foehn winds and, probably, non-climatic factors seem to have been more important.Temperature and precipitation played a major role in shaping fire frequency and burnt area in the first half of the 20th century, but lost their importance during the second half. Our case study illustrates the occurrence of different fire regime patterns and their driving forces on small spatial scales (a few hundred square kilometers). We conclude that the strong rise in temperature over the past century has not profoundly changed the fire regime in Valais, but in the second half of the 20th century temperature was no longer a strong determinant for forest fires as compared to human activities or biomass availability in forests.
40296308|We examined the influence of watershed land use and morphology on dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentration in 32 south-central Ontario streams having varying agricultural land-use intensities in their catchments. For streams in this region, both univariate and multivariate regression models identify the proportion of the watershed with poorly drained soils (r 2 up to 0.67) as a better predictor of stream DOC concentrations than any other landscape characteristic, including the proportion of the watershed as wetland. Agricultural land use did not strongly influence DOC concentrations in our study area; however, we do show that land-use changes could significantly alter the delivery of DOC to streams in the region. We also identify how landscape-DOC relationships change over a 2-year time period, as related to season, regional climatic conditions, soil moisture, and hydrology. Our results indicate that the relationships between landscape predictors and stream DOC concentrations are temporally dynamic. Strong temporal trends are shown seasonally and in association with climate, through its control of modelled soil moisture conditions. During periods of positive and negative deviation from normal soil moisture conditions, the relationships of DOC concentrations with landscape characteristics become less predictable. We show that these dominant patterns are likely a function of varying flow paths and that anthropogenic changes that affect soil moisture conditions or flow path will in turn strongly influence DOC dynamics.
3659014| Most arid ecosystems have suffered from severe overexploitation by excessive wood harvesting, overgrazing, and agriculture, resulting in depletion of vegetation biomass and soil erosion. These changes are often difficult to reverse due to positive feedbacks that tend to stabilize the new situation. In this paper, we briefly review evidence for the idea that different states in these ecosystems might represent alternative equilibria and present a graphic model that summarizes the implications for their response to changing environmental conditions. We show how, in the light of this theoretical framework, climatic oscillations such as El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) could be used in combination with grazer control to restore degraded arid ecosystems. We also present evidence that, depending on grazing pressure, ENSO episodes can trigger structural and long-lasting changes in these ecosystems. 
3658952|Potential changes in tree species richness and forest community types were evaluated for the eastern United States according to five scenarios of future climate change resulting from a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
27823753|Stream water exports of nutrients and pollutants to water bodies integrate internal and external watershed processes that vary in both space and time. In this paper, we explore nitrate (NO3) fluxes for the 326 km2 mixed-land use Fall Creek watershed in central New York for 19722005, and consider internal factors such as changes in land use/land cover, dynamics in agricultural production and fertilizer use, and external factors such as atmospheric deposition. Segmented regression analysis was applied independently to dormant and growing seasons for three portions of the period of record, which indicated that stream water NO3 concentrations increased in both dormant and growing seasons from the 1970s to the early 1990s at all volumes of streamflow discharge. Dormant season NO3 concentrations then decreased at all flow conditions between the periods 19871993 and 19942005. Results from a regression-based stream water loading model (LOADEST) normalized to mean annual concentrations showed annual modeled NO3 concentration in stream water increased by 34% during the 1970s and 1980s (from 1.15 to 1.54 mg 11), peaked in about 1989, and then decreased by 29% through 2005 (to 1.09 mg 1). Annual precipitation had the strongest correlation with stream water NO3 concentratioins (r = 0.62, P = 0.01). Among land use factors, corn production for grain was the variable most highly correlated to stream water NO3 concentrations (r = 0.53, P = 0.01). The strongest associative trend determined using Chi-squared Automatic Interaction Detection (CHAID) was found between stream water No3 concentrations and N-equivalence of dairy production (Bonferroni adjusted P value = 0.0003). Large increases in dairy production were coincident with declining nitrate concentrations over the past decade, which suggest that dairy management practices may have improved in the watershed. However, because dairy production in the Fall Creek watershed has been fueled by large increases in feed imports, the environmental costs of feed production have likely been externalized to other watersheds.
3658674|Each year, about 75 billion tons of soil are eroded from the world's terrestrial ecosystems. Most agricultural land in the world is losing soil at rates ranging from 13 tons/ha/year to 40 tons/ha/year. Because soil is formed very slowly, this means that soil is being lost 13-40 times faster than the rate of renewal and sustainability. Rain and wind energy are the two prime causes of erosion from tilled or bare land. Erosion occurs when the soil lacks protective vegetative cover. Soil erosion reduces the productivity of the land by loss of water, soil organic matter, nutrients, biota, and depth of soil. The greatest threat to providing food for a rapidly growing human population is soil erosion. Abandoned, eroded agricultural land is replaced by clearing forested ecosystems.
41505938|We characterized spatial and temporal variability in net ecosystem production (NEP), community respiration (CR), and gross primary production (GPP) over an ice-free season in an oligotrophic high-elevation lake using high-frequency measurements of dissolved oxygen. We combined the use of free-water and incubation chamber measurements to compare pelagic and benthic habitats and estimate their relative contributions to whole-lake metabolism. Despite a brief period of predominant heterotrophy after snowmelt, both free-water and incubation chamber measurements confirmed autotrophy of the epilimnion in all habitats throughout the ice-free season. In contrast, benthic incubation chambers showed the benthos to be consistently heterotrophic. Although temperature was the strongest seasonal driver of benthic metabolism, bacterioplankton density and indexes of organic matter quality explained the most variability in pelagic metabolism. Driven largely by benthic metabolism, free-water measurements of GPP and CR were twice as high in littoral than pelagic habitats. However, rates of water column primary production overlying the littoral benthos were high enough to overcome net benthic heterotrophy, and seasonal mean NEP in littoral habitats remained positive and not significantly different from pelagic habitats. Benthic rates averaged about 25% of wholelake metabolism. Pelagic metabolism measurements were affected by littoral rates about half the time, with the degree of isolation between the two a function of advection and water column stability. These results emphasize the importance of characterizing spatial and temporal variability in metabolism within the context of physical dynamics and challenge the notion that benthic metabolism will necessarily be larger than pelagic metabolism in oligotrophic lakes.
27823734|Mediterranean ecosystems have been impacted for millennia by human practices, particularly agricultural and pastoral activities. Since the middle of the nineteenth century, land-use abandonment has lead to scrubland and forest expansion, especially in mountain areas of the northern Mediterranean basin. This study aimed at analyzing how grazing history affects subsequent forest dynamics at a site located in the limestone foothills of the Southern Alps (France). The approach combines archival documents and dendroecology to investigate the origin, establishement and development of forest following land-use abandonment. Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) started to colonize quickly in the 1870s, with the recruitment rate increasing during the first decade of the 1900s, associated with a decline of the local human population and regional livestock. Since the 1960s, European beech (Fagus sylvatica) and silver fir (Abies alba) have regenerated in the understorey of Scots pines. Regeneration is controlled by a threshold of grazing pressure. Noticeably, the rate of reforestation differs according to the former land-use, with pastures being colonized more quickly than ploughed areas. Different previous land-uses leading to different times of grazing cessation, combined with variable herbaceous competition explain the contrasting microscale regeneration patterns. Agricultural land-use and abandonment are both significant driving forces of vegetation dynamics. Knowledge of these factors is thus necessary to understand present patterns and to predict future forest pathways in the Mediterranean mountains.
40792947|This article reports the results of a study of submarine groundwater discharge (SGD) to coastal waters of Majorca (NW Mediterranean). The overall aim is to evaluate the relevance of SGD of the island and chemically characterize the components that are supplied to the coastal waters through this pathway. Although other discharge areas are identified, we particularly focus on SGD in bays and areas of increased sea water residence time where effects of the discharges are expected to be most notable. Analysis at four selected embayments with different land-use characteristics indicated a link between human activities (mainly agriculture and urban) and compounds arriving to the coast. A pathway for these elements is the diffuse discharge along the shoreline, as suggested by the inverse relationship between salinity and nutrients in nearshore porewaters. A general survey was conducted at 46 sites around the island, and used dissolved radium as a qualitative indicator of SGD. Measurements of nutrients (P and N), pCO and TOC were performed to characterize the elements delivered to the coastal environment. Most nearshore samples showed 224 Ra enrichment (mean  SE, 7.0  0.6 dpm 100 l) with respect to offshore waters (1.1  0.2 dpm 100 l); however, Ra measurements along the coast were highly variable (1.0-38.1 dpm 100 l). Coastal samples with enhanced radium levels showed elevated pCO with respect to atmospheric concentrations, which together with high pCO in groundwater (> 5,000 ppm) indicates that SGD is an important vector of CO to coastal waters. Moreover, a relationship between Ra and phytoplankton biomass was established, suggesting an important impact of SGD on coastal productivity. The results presented here provide a first approximation of the SGD effect in the coastal waters of Majorca, and indicate that SGD could be an important source of nutrients and CO to the coast, strongly influencing the productivity and biogeochemical cycling of the coastal waters of Majorca.
3658825|Although the watershed approach has long been used to study whole-ecosystem function, it has seldom been applied to study human-dominated systems, especially those dominated by urban and suburban land uses. Here we present 3 years of data on nitrogen (N) losses from one completely forested, one agricultural, and six urban/suburban watersheds, and input-output N budgets for suburban, forested, and agricultural watersheds. The work is a product of the Baltimore Ecosystem Study, a long-term study of urban and suburban ecosystems, and a component of the US National Science Foundation's long-term ecological research (LTER) network. As expected, urban and suburban watersheds had much higher N losses than did the completely forested watershed, with N yields ranging from 2.9 to
40928217|Spruce budworm (Choristoneura fumiferana Clem.) is an important and recurrent disturbance throughout spruce (Picea sp.) and balsam fir (Abies balsamea L.) dominated forests of North America. Forest carbon (C) dynamics in these ecosystems are affected during insect outbreaks because millions of square kilometers of forest suffer growth loss and mortality. We tested the hypothesis that a spruce budworm outbreak similar to those in the past could switch a forest from a C sink to a source in the near future. We used a model of ecosystem C to integrate past spruce budworm impact sequences with current forest management data on 106,000 km of forest in eastern Qubec. Spruce budworm-caused mortality decreased stand-level merchantable C stocks by 11-90% and decreased ecosystem C stocks by 2-10% by the end of the simulation. For the first 13 years (2011-2024), adding spruce budworm significantly reduced ecosystem C stock change for the landscape from a sink (4.6  2.7 g C m y in 2018) to a source ( 16.8  3.0 g C m y in 2018). This result was mostly due to reduced net primary production. The ecosystem stock change was reduced on average by 2 Tg C y for the entire simulated area. This study provides the first estimate that spruce budworm can significantly affect the C sink or source status of a large landscape. These results indicate that reducing spruce budworm impacts on timber may also provide an opportunity to mitigate a C source.
40296388|Ecological filters and nutrient heterogeneity are important in the function of ecosystems. Herbaceous layers alter forest ecosystems by filtering tree species during early stages of tree reproduction and influencing nutrient cycling. Important aspects about how tree species successfully establish below and extend above this ecological filter are unanswered in forest ecology. We experimentally tested the effects of large ungulate carcasses on the filtering function of herbaceous layers. Even wellutilized carcasses created unexpected disturbances that reduced herbaceous cover, which effectively perforated the herbaceous layer filter that can differentially influence tree reproduction. Carcasses also created lasting biogeochemical "hotspots" in forest soils that may help maintain plant biodiversity by creating resource heterogeneity and shifting competitive relationships. Because the spatial distribution of carcasses is influenced by predators, these data establish an unrecognized link between large carnivores, prey carcasses, and ecosystem processes. This link supports a novel understanding of disturbance by large herbivores in forest ecosystems by demonstrating an important interaction between predator-prey functional traits and tree seedling dynamics on either side of a major ecological filter.
3658707|Human land-use activities differ from natural disturbance processes and may elicit novel biotic responses and disrupt existing biotic-environmental relationships. The widespread prevalence of land use requires that human activity be addressed as a fundamental ecological process and that lessons from investigations of land-use history be applied to landscape conservation and management. Changes in the intensity of land use and extent of forest cover in New England over the past 3 centuries provide the opportunity to evaluate the nature of forest response and reorganization to such broad-scale disturbance. Using a range of archival data and modern studies, we assessed historical changes in forest vegetation and land use from the Colonial period (early 17th century) to the present across a
27823691|Well-founded methods to assess habitat connectivity are essential to inform land management decisions that include conservation and restoration goals. Indeed, to be able to develop a conservation plan that maintains animal movement through a fragmented landscape, spatial locations of habitat and paths among them need to be represented. Graph-based approaches have been proposed to determine paths among habitats at various scales and dispersal movement distances, and balance data requirements with information content. Conventional graphs, however, do not explicitly maintain geographic reference, reducing communication capacity and utility of other geo-spatial information. We present spatial graphs as a unifying theory for applying graph-based methods in a geographic context. Spatial graphs integrate a geometric reference system that ties patches and paths to specific spatial locations and spatial dimensions. Arguably, the complete graph, with paths between every pair of patches, may be one of the most relevant graphs from an ecosystem perspective, but it poses challenges to compute, process and visualize. We developed Minimum Planar Graphs as a spatial generalization of Delaunay triangulations to provide a reasonable approximation of complete graphs that facilitates visualization and comprehension of the network of connections across landscapes. If, as some authors have suggested, the minimum spanning tree identifies the connectivity "backbone" of a landscape, then the Minimum Planar Graph identifies the connectivity "network". We applied spatial graphs, and in particular the Minimum Planar Graph, to analyze woodland caribou habitat in Manitoba, Canada to support the establishment of a national park.
3658970|Strong inference is a powerful and rapid tool that can be used to identify and explain patterns in molecular biology, cell biology, and physiology. It is effective where causes are single and separable and where discrimination between pairwise alternative hypotheses can be determined experimentally by a simple yes or no answer. But causes in ecological systems are multiple and overlapping and are not entirely separable. Frequently, competing hypotheses cannot be distinguished by a single unambiguous test, but only by a suite of tests of different kinds, that produce a body of evidence to support one line of argument and not others. We call this process "adaptive inference". Instead of pitting each member of a pair of hypotheses against each other, adaptive inference relies on the exuberant invention of multiple, competing hypotheses, after which carefully structured comparative data are used to explore the logical consequences of each. Herein we present an example that demonstrates the attributes of adaptive inference that have developed out of a 30-year study of the resilience of ecosystems.
41505993|To explore within-gap spatial patterns of soil surface CO flux, we measured instantaneous soil surface CO flux, soil surface temperature, and soil moisture in north-south transects across canopy gaps and in adjacent contiguous forest from April to November 2010 in a second-growth northern hardwood forest in Wisconsin, USA. Throughout the growing season, soil surface CO flux was higher in the northern 1/3 and northern edge of gaps compared to the central and southern portions. These patterns were driven primarily by within-gap variation in soil temperature, which was itself driven by within-gap patterns of insolation. Most locations in the northern 1/3 and northern edge of gaps had significantly higher modeled total growing season C flux (mean 725 g C m) compared to the contiguous forest (mean 706 g C m), whereas C flux in the central and southern portions of gaps (mean 555 g C m) was significantly lower than both the contiguous forest and the northern portions of gaps.
40603499|Herbivory can lead to shifts in ecosystem state or changes in ecosystem functioning, and recovery from herbivory is particularly slow in disturbancesensitive ecosystems such as arctic tundra. Herbivore impacts on ecosystems are variable in space and time due to population fluctuations and selective utilization of habitats; thus there is a need to accurately predict herbivore impacts at the landscape scale. The habitat utilization and extent of disturbance caused by increasing populations of pink-footed geese (Anser brachyrhynchus) foraging in the high arctic tundra of Svalbard were assessed using a predictive model of the population's habitat use. Pink-footed geese arrive in Svalbard in early spring when they forage for belowground plant parts; this foraging (called grubbing) can cause vegetation loss and soil disturbance. Surveys of the extent and intensity of grubbing were carried out to develop predictive models that were subsequently tested against data collected during the following year from different areas. Both habitat type at a particular point and the amount of preferred fen habitat in the surrounding area were powerful predictors of grubbing likelihood and the developed model correctly classified over 69% of validation observations with an AUC of 0.75. Pink-footed geese showed a strong preference for wetter habitats within low-lying landscapes. Extrapolation of the predictive model across the archipelago showed that a maximum potential area of 2300 km 2 (3.8% of the archipelago) could be disturbed by grubbing. Thus, increasing populations of geese may cause large-scale vegetation loss and soil disturbance in arctic ecosystems.
40603624|The large pool of actively cycling carbon (C) held in soils is susceptible to release due to changes in landuse, management, or climate. Yet, the amount and distribution of potentially mineralizable C present in soils of various types and the method by which this soil C fraction can best be quantified, are not well established. The distribution of total organic C (TOC), extractable C pools (hot-water-extractable and acidhydrolyzable), and in vitro mineralizable C in 138 surface soils across a north Florida watershed was found to be quite heterogeneous. Thus, these C quality parameters could not statistically distinguish the eight landuses or four major soil orders represented. Only wetland and upland forest soils, with the largest and smallest C pool size, respectively, were consistently different from the soils of other landuse types. Variations in potential C mineralization were best explained by TOC (62%) and hot-waterextractable C (59%), whereas acid-hydrolyzable C (32%) and clay content (35%) were generally not adequate indicators of C bioavailability. Within certain landuse and soil orders (Alfisol, Wetland and Rangeland, all with >3% clay content), however, C mineralization and clay content were directly linearly correlated, indicating a possible stimulatory effect of clay on microbial processing of C. Generally, the sandy nature of these surface soils imparted a lack of protection against C mineralization and likely resulted in the lack of landuse/soil order differences in the soil C pools. If a single parameter is to be chosen to quantify the potential for soil C mineralization in southeastern U.S. coastal plain soils, we recommend TOC as the most efficient soil variable to measure.
25053851|Spawning Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) contribute marine-derived nutrients to riparian ecosystems, potentially affecting characteristics of the associated soils and vegetation. We quantified these effects by comparing soil and vegetative characteristics upstream and downstream of natural migratory barriers on ten spawning streams in southwest Alaska. Mean
40603625|We explored the net effects of grazing on soil C and N pools in a Patagonian shrub-grass steppe (temperate South America). Net effects result from the combination of direct impacts of grazing on biogeochemical characteristics of microsites with indirect effects on relative cover of vegetated and unvegetated microsites. Within five independent areas, we sampled surface soils in sites subjected to three grazing intensities: (1) ungrazed sites inside grazing exclosures, (2) moderately grazed sites adjacent to them, and (3) intensely grazed sites within the same paddock. Grazing significantly reduced soil C and N pools, although this pattern was clearest in intensely grazed sites. This net effect was due to the combination of a direct reduction of soil N content in bare soil patches, and indirect effects mediated by the increase of the cover of bare soil microsites, with lower C and N content than either grass or shrub microsites. This increase in bare soil cover was accompanied by a reduction in cover of preferred grass species and standing dead material. Finally, stable isotope signatures varied significantly among grazed and ungrazed sites, with N and C significantly depleted in intensely grazed sites, suggesting reduced mineralization with increased grazing intensity. In the Patagonian steppe, grazing appears to exert a negative effect on soil C and N cycles; sound management practices must incorporate the importance of species shifts within life form, and the critical role of standing dead material in maintaining soil C and N stocks and biogeochemical processes.
3658648|In fluvial systems, the interactions between rivers and groundwater significantly affect various ecological structures (for example, riparian vegetation) and functions. To examine the effects of hydrological exchange between groundwater and surface water on the distribution of aquatic invertebrates within a riverine landscape, we investigated the main stem, tributaries, and various surface and subsurface waters of two floodplains of a southern Alpine river (Brenno, Switzerland) in terms of their physicochemical, hydraulic, substratum, and faunal characteristics. The origins of the water were investigated by analyzing geomorphic settings and physicochemical variables. The two floodplains had different hydrological regimes. The middle floodplain was dominated by lateral inputs and exfiltration of hillslope groundwater from two different subcatchments. Bank filtration of river water sustained subsurface water only close to the channel. The aquatic habitats of the middle floodplain formed a rather homogeneous group with high taxon richness and intrahabitat diversities. These aquatic habitats resembled mountain springbrooks in their physicochemical characteristics and faunal compositions. In the lower floodplain, the exchange between river water and groundwater was more extensive. The aquatic floodplain habitats of the lower floodplain were fed mainly by deep and shallow alluvial groundwater, hyporheic exfiltration, and partly by surface water. In contrast to aquatic habitats of the middle floodplain, habitats of the lower floodplain showed a low intrahabitat and a high interhabitat diversity in terms of both substrate characteristics and faunal compositions. For both floodplains, ordination analyses showed a high concordance between the structure of the invertebrate community and the characteristics of the environmental habitat, including chemical, geomorphic, and hydraulic variables. Ordinations grouped aquatic habitats according to the origins of the waters. Taxon richness was related to local structural diversity, but species turnover was related to differential vertical and lateral connectivity. Exfiltration of groundwaters provided aquatic floodplain habitats for several specialized species. The results of this study show the significance of the river-groundwater connectivity for the creation of the habitat mosaic that sustains biodiversity in floodplains and thus have important implications for managing the ecological integrity of floodplains.
27823713|Riparian areas contain structurally diverse habitats that are challenging to monitor routinely and accurately over broad areas. As the structural variability within riparian areas is often indiscernible using moderate-scale satellite imagery, new mapping techniques are needed. We used high spatial resolution satellite imagery from the QuickBird satellite to map harvested and intact forests in coastal British Columbia, Canada. We distinguished forest structural classes used in riparian restoration planning, each with different restoration costs. To assess the accuracy of high spatial resolution imagery relative to coarser imagery, we coarsened the pixel resolution of the image, repeated the classifications, and compared results. Accuracy assessments produced individual class accuracies ranging from 70 to 90% for most classes; whilst accuracies obtained using coarser scale imagery were lower. We also examined the implications of map error on riparian restoration budgets derived from our classified maps. To do so, we modified the confusion matrix to create a cost error matrix quantifying costs associated with misclassification. High spatial resolution satellite imagery can be useful for riparian mapping; however, errors in restoration budgets attributable to misclassification error can be significant, even when using highly accurate maps. As the spatial resolution of imagery increases, it will be used more routinely in ecosystem ecology. Thus, our ability to evaluate map accuracy in practical, meaningful ways must develop further. The cost error matrix is one method that can be adapted for conservation and planning decisions in many ecosystems.
3658842|We developed a dynamic model to investigate the effect of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
3658639|The effects of CO
40603628|Field studies of atmospheric CO effects on ecosystems usually include few levels of CO and a single soil type, making it difficult to ascertain the shape of responses to increasing CO or to generalize across soil types. The Lysimeter CO Gradient (LYCOG) chambers were constructed to maintain a linear gradient of atmospheric CO (~ 250 to 500 l1) on grassland vegetation established on intact soil monoliths from three soil series. The chambers maintained a linear daytime CO gradient from 263 l 1 at the subambient end of the gradient to 502 l1 at the superambient end, as well as a linear nighttime CO gradient. Temperature variation within the chambers affected aboveground biomass and evapotranspiration, but the effects of temperature were small compared to the expected effects of CO . Aboveground biomass on Austin soils was 40% less than on Bastrop and Houston soils. Biomass differences between soils resulted from variation in biomass of Sorghastrum nutans, Bouteloua curtipendula, Schizachyrium scoparium (C grasses), and Solidago canadensis (C forb), suggesting the COsensitivity of these species may differ among soils. Evapotranspiration did not differ among the soils, but the COsensitivity of leaf-level photosynthesis and water use efficiency in S. canadensis was greater on Houston and Bastrop than on Austin soils, whereas the COsensitivity of soil CO efflux was greater on Bastrop oils than on Austin or Houston soils. The effects of soil type on CO sensitivity may be smaller for some processes that are tightly coupled to microclimate. LYCOG is useful for discerning the effects of soil type on the CO sensitivity of ecosystem function in grasslands.
3658741| Predicted changes in climate may affect key soil processes such as respiration and net nitrogen (N) mineralization and thus key ecosystem functions such as carbon (C) storage and nutrient availability. To identify the sensitivity of shrubland soils to predicted climate changes, we have carried out experimental manipulations involving ecosystem warming and prolonged summer drought in ericaceous shrublands across a European climate gradient. We used retractable covers to create artificial nighttime warming and prolonged summer drought to
25053817|The results of nitrogen (N) fertilization experiments have shown inconsistent rates of plant litter decomposition, a phenomenon that may be explained by dispropotionate influence of animal detritivores (macro-detritivores) on litter mass loss versus that of microbial decomposers, whose activity may be dependent on inorganic N. In turn, macrodetritivores may be influenced by plant species composition via their selection of optimal food resources and habitats. In our experiment, fertilizer had no apparent effect on litter decomposition, suggesting that microbial decomposers did not use the additional inorganic N and/or that macrodetritivores had a greater influence on decomposition. Manipulation of macrodetritivores suggested that plant species composition-dominated in this study by Festuca arundinacea, an exotic, invasive grass, and Aster ericoides, a native forb-caused shifts in detrivore communities and/or feeding patterns that tended to increase litter mass loss. Canopy cover of F. arundinacea and A. ericoides ranged from 0% to 11%, suggesting that low-intensity invasion may produce significant changes in ecosystem function, such as decomposition.
25470351|Although ecosystem-based management can lead to sustainable resource use, its successful implementation depends on stakeholders' acceptance. A framework to integrate scientific knowledge about the ecosystems with stakeholders' preferences is therefore needed. We propose here a 'Public Sentiment Index,' or PSI, as an integration framework that combines an ecosystem model (Ecopath with Ecosim; EwE) with a public choice model (the damage schedule). Using Chesapeake Bay as a case study, we demonstrate the development of the PSI, based on judgments of Bay stakeholders, including 'watermen' (commercial fishers), seafood wholesalers and retailers, recreational fishers, representatives from non-governmental organizations, scientists and managers on a range of Bay ecosystems. The high PSI for Chesapeake Bay suggests a consensus amongst Bay stakeholders who, understanding the need for restoring the Bay ecosystem, may accept difficult policy choices and support their implementation.
40603418|Fire is an important control on the carbon (C) balance of the boreal forest region. Here, we present findings from two complementary studies that examine how fire modifies soil organic matter properties, and how these modifications influence rates of decomposition and C exchange in black spruce (Picea mariana) ecosystems of interior Alaska. First, we used laboratory incubations to explore soil temperature, moisture, and vegetation effects on CO 2 and DOC production rates in burned and unburned soils from three study regions in interior Alaska. Second, at one of the study regions used in the incubation experiments, we conducted intensive field measurements of net ecosystem exchange (NEE) and ecosystem respiration (ER) across an unreplicated factorial design of burning (2 year post-fire versus unburned sites) and drainage class (upland forest versus peatland sites). Our laboratory study showed that burning reduced the sensitivity of decomposition to increased temperature, most likely by inducing moisture or substrate quality limitations on decomposition rates. Burning also reduced the decomposability of Sphagnum-derived organic matter, increased the hydrophobicity of feather moss-derived organic matter, and increased the ratio of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) to total dissolved nitrogen (TDN) in both the upland and peatland sites. At the ecosystem scale, our field measurements indicate that the surface organic soil was generally wetter in burned than in unburned sites, whereas soil temperature was not different between the burned and unburned sites.Analysis of variance results showed that ER varied with soil drainage class but not by burn status, averaging 0.9  0.1 and 1.4  0.1 g C m207B d207B in the upland and peatland sites, respectively. However, a more complex general linear model showed that ER was controlled by an interaction between soil temperature, moisture, and burn status, and in general was less variable over time in the burned than in the unburned sites. Together, findings from these studies across different spatial scales suggest that although fire can create some soil climate conditions more conducive to rapid decomposition, rates of C release from soils may be constrained following fire by changes in moisture and/or substrate quality that impede rates of decomposition.
3658840|Invasion of north temperate forest soils by exotic earthworms has the potential to alter microbial biomass and activity over large areas of North America. We measured the distribution and activity of microbial biomass in forest stands invaded by earthworms and in adjacent stands lacking earthworms in sugar maple-dominated forests in two locations in New York State, USA: one with a history of cultivation and thin organic surface soil horizons (forest floors) and the other with no history of cultivation and a thick (3-5 cm) forest floor. Earthworm invasion greatly reduced pools of microbial biomass in the forest floor and increased pools in the mineral soil. Enrichment of the mineral soil was much more marked at the site with thick forest floors. The increase in microbial biomass carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) in the mineral soil at this site was larger than the decrease in the forest floor, resulting in a net increase in total soil profile microbial biomass in the invaded plots. There was an increase in respiration in the mineral soil at both sites, which is consistent with a movement of organic matter and microbial biomass into the mineral soil. However, N-cycle processes (mineralization and nitrification) did not increase along with respiration. It is likely that the earthworm-induced input of C into the mineral soil created a microbial "sink" for N, preventing an increase in net mineralization and nitrification and conserving N in the soil profile.
41505966|Dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) can comprise a large and biologically important fraction of total dissolved N in surface water. Biotic and abiotic processes result in heterogeneous DON concentrations and bioavailability in soils, and as hydrologie connectivity expands and flow paths change in watersheds, novel sources of DON can be mobilized and transported to surface water. Although the relationship between in-stream DOC concentration and stream discharge has previously been examined in the literature, up to now there has not been a synthesis examining how DON concentrations, loads, and composition change during transitions from base flow to pulse flow conditions. We present a meta-analysis examining the effect of high flow on DON concentration ([DON]). The ratio of mean pulse flow [DON] to mean base flow [DON] (P:B) was calculated for individual events and averaged (geometric) within and then across sites to generate an overall effect size. For 47 sites (78 events), mean P:B was 1.58, which was significantly different from unity. This moderate increase in DON concentration contributed to over a more than 10-fold average increase in the rate of DON yield from base flow to high flow. The response of [DON] to high flow was significant in catchments where individual storm events or snowmelt runoff events were responsible for elevated flows, whereas the response was not significant in catchments where high discharge resulted from a mixture of upstream snowmelt and rain events. Additionally, an examination of DOC:DON ratios during high flow indicates that multiple sources of DON may be mobilized during high flow. Finally, current models of annual DON export may be improved by including a positive relationship between discharge and DON.
40603428|The recent infestation of southern Appalachian eastern hemlock stands by hemlock woolly adelgid (HWA) is expected to have dramatic and lasting effects on forest structure and function. We studied the short-term changes to the carbon cycle in a mixed stand of hemlock and hardwoods, where hemlock was declining due to either girdling or HWA infestation. We expected that hemlock would decline more rapidly from girdling than from HWA infestation.Unexpectedly, in response to both girdling and HWA infestation, hemlock basal area increment (BAI) reduced substantially compared to reference hardwoods in 3 years. This decline was concurrent with moderate increases in the BAI of co-occurring hardwoods. Although the girdling treatment resulted in an initial pulse of hemlock needle inputs, cumulative litter inputs and O horizon mass did not differ between treatments over the study period. Following girdling and HWA infestation, very fine root biomass declined by 20-40% in 2 years, which suggests hemlock root mortality in the girdling treatment, and a reduction in hemlock root production in the HWA treatment. Soil CO efflux (E soil ) declined by approximately 20% in 1 year after both girdling and HWA infestation, even after accounting for the intra-annual variability of soil temperature and moisture. The reduction in E soil and the concurrent declines in BAI and standing very fine root biomass suggest rapid declines in hemlock productivity from HWA infestation. The accelerated inputs of detritus resulting from hemlock mortality are likely to influence carbon and nutrient fluxes, and dictate future patterns of species regeneration in these forest ecosystems.
40792950|Shifts in the seasonal timing of rainfall have the potential to substantially affect the immense terrestrial stores of soil organic carbon (C, SOC). It remains unclear, however, how changes in the timing of rainfall are influencing SOC storage. We hypothesized that a sustained shift in rainfall timing from winter to a spring-summer regime would reduce desert SOC stores by creating moist and warm soil conditions, thus promoting decomposition. To investigate this, we evaluated how an 11-year seasonal shift in rainfall (winter to springsummer regime) affected SOC storage (that is, dissolved organic C, light SOC, and heavy SOC) in soils beneath dominant shrub and perennial grass species in a cold desert sagebrush-steppe ecosystem. We also measured the soil C to nitrogen (N) ratios, standing litter stocks, and root biomass C to help interpret the long-term changes in SOC stores. As predicted, a seasonal shift in rainfall caused heavy SOC to decline beneath Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis by 14%, from 3.1 to 2.7 kg C m, and Pseudoroegneria spicata by 19%, from 3.0 to 2.4 kg Cm. Neither dissolved organic C, nor the light fraction, responded to changes in rainfall. The C to  ratio of heavy SOC beneath Artemisia declined by at least 6% under the warmer and moister conditions of the spring-summer regime, suggesting that alterations in decomposition dynamics contributed to the loss of SOC. Unexpectedly, coarse litter and root C in Artemisia soils were lower under the spring-summer than winter rainfall regime, suggesting that a decline in litter inputs may also have contributed to the loss of SOC. The C to  ratio of heavy SOC, litter stores (that is, coarse litter and thatch), and root C in Pseudoroegneria soils demonstrated similar responses as in Artemisia soils, but these variables were at best only marginally significant. Our results suggest that a sustained seasonal shift in rainfall from winter to spring-summer will reduce heavy SOC across cold deserts, and that this reduction will stem from alterations in decomposition dynamics and net primary production by plants. Further, as global temperatures rise we may see more overlap of moist and warm soil conditions, especially in ecosystems with winter rainfall regimes (for example, Mediterranean-climate ecosystems and temperate forests), that may reduce SOC in the absence of rainfall changes.
27823755|Soil erosion negatively affects crop yields and may have contributed to the collapse of ancient civilizations. Whether erosion may have such an impact on modern societies as well, is subject to debate. In this paper we quantify the relationship between crop yields and soil water available to plants, the most important yield-determining factor affected by erosion, at the European scale. Using information on the spatial distribution of erosion rates we calculate the potential threat of erosion-induced productivity losses. We show that future reductions in productivity in Europe as a whole are relatively small and do not pose a substantial threat to crop production within the coming century. However, within Europe there is considerable variability, and although productivity in northern Europe is not likely to be significantly reduced by soil erosion, for the southern countries the threat of erosion-induced productivity declines is stronger.
40603620|By 2050, 70% of the Earth's human population will live in urban areas. Urbanization can have a devastating impact on local ecosystems, but these impacts vary across time and space. Identifying links between spatiotemporal change in urban ecosystems and neighborhood socio-economics is crucial to management aimed at maintaining flora and fauna in urban areas. Here, we tracked 20 years of socio-economic change and 15 years of vegetation change in 32 residential neighborhoods in south-eastern Australia. Regression models that explicitly accounted for a time lag between neighborhood socio-economic characteristics and vegetation response explained more variation in vegetation cover than models that ignored the effects of time. Also, relationships between vegetation and socio-economic factors were stronger in later years for the same neighborhoods suggesting the influence of socio-economics is more readily identified in established neighborhoods. Socioeconomic variables alone, or in combination with biophysical variables, were better predictors of vegetation cover than only biophysical variables. Across space, vegetation cover had a negative quadratic relationship with neighborhood housing density, peaking at mid-density values, and a positive relationship with education level and immigration status (the percentage of residents with a non-Australian background). Over time, housing density had a positive relationship with vegetation cover, reflecting an increase in vegetation as neighborhoods develop. Our results highlight the need to understand temporal context when attempting to explain contemporary patterns in vegetation cover and the increasing importance of socio-economic factors in influencing cover as neighborhoods become established.
40296382|Changes in precipitation and nitrogen (N) deposition can influence ecosystem carbon (C) cycling and budget in terrestrial biomes, with consequent feedbacks to climate change. However, little is known about the main and interactive effects of water and N additions on net ecosystem C exchange (NEE). In a temperate steppe of northern China, a field-manipulated experiment was conducted to evaluate the responses of NEE and its components to improve N and water availability from 2005 to 2008. The results showed that both water and N additions stimulated gross ecosystem productivity (GEP), ecosystem respiration (ER), and NEE. Water addition increased GEP by 17%, ER by 24%, and NEE by 11% during the experimental period, whereas N addition increased GEP by 17%, ER by 16%, and NEE by 19%. The main effects of both water and N additions changed with time, with the strongest water stimulation in the dry year and a diminishing N stimulation over time. When water and N were added in combination, there were nonadditive effects of water and N on ecosystem C fluxes, which could be explained by the changes in species composition and the shifts of limiting resources from belowground (water or N) to aboveground (light). The positive water and N additions effects indicate that increasing precipitation and N deposition in the future will favor C sequestration in the temperate steppe. The non-additive effects of water and N on ecosystem C fluxes suggest that multifactor experiments are better able to capture complex interactive processes, thus improving model simulations and projections.
41507772|This study uses Bayesian networks (BNs) to simulate the spatial distribution of southern African biomes and bioregions using bioclimatic variables. Two Tree-Augmented Nave (TAN) BN models were parameterized from 23 bioclimatic variables using the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm. Using sensitivity analyses, the relative influence of each variable was determined using the mutual information from which six bioclimatic variables were selected for the final models. Precipitation of the warmest quarter and extra-terrestrial solar radiation was found to be the most influential variables on both bioregion and biome distributions. Isothermality was the least influential bioclimatic variable at both bioregion and biome levels. Overall correspondence was very high at 93.8 and 87.1% for biomes and bioregions, respectively, whereas classification errors were obtained in transition areas indicating the uncertainties associated with vegetation mapping around margins. The findings indicate that southern African bioregions and biomes can be classified and mapped according to key bioclimatic variables. Spatio-temporal, in particular, monthly and quarterly variations in both precipitation and temperature are found to be ecologically significant in determining the spatial distribution of biomes and bioregions. The findings also reflect the hierarchical relationship of biomes and bioregions as a function of local bioclimatic gradients and interactions. The results indicate the ecological significance of bioclimatic conditions in ecosystem science and offer the opportunity to utilize the models for predicting future responses and sensitivities to climatic changes.
40928231|Improved management of carbon storage by terrestrial biomes has significant value for mitigating climate change. The carbon value of such management has the potential to provide additional income to rural communities and provide biodiversity and climate adaptation co-benefits. Here, we quantify the carbon stores in a 49,300-ha landscape centered on the cloud forest-grassland transition of the high Andes in Manu National Park, Peru. Aboveground carbon densities were measured across the landscape by field sampling of 70 sites above and below the treeline. The forest near the treeline contained 63.4  5.2 Mg C ha aboveground, with an additional 13.9  2.8 Mg C ha estimated to be stored in the coarse roots, using a root to shoot ratio of 0.26. Puna grasslands near the treeline were found to store 7.5  0.7 Mg C ha in aboveground biomass. Comparing our result to soil data gathered by Zimmermann and others (Ecosystems 13: 62-74, 2010), we found the ratio of belowground: aboveground carbon decreased from 15.8 on the puna to 8.6 in the transition zone and 2.1 in the forest. No significant relationships were found between carbon densities and slope, altitude or fire disturbance history, though grazing (for puna) was found to reduce aboveground carbon densities significantly. We scaled our study sites to the study region with remote sensing observations from Landsat. The carbon sequestration potential of improved grazing management and assisted upslope treeline migration was also estimated. Afforestation of puna at the treeline could generate revenues of US $ 1,374 per ha over the project lifetime via commercialization of the carbon credits from gains in aboveground carbon stocks. Uncertainties in the fate of the large soil carbon stocks under an afforestation scenario exist.
3658793|Increasing concentrations of carbon dioxide ( CO
3658601|Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and leaf-area index (LAI) of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm. ex Wats.) saplings and aboveground productivity of herbaceous vegetation components were determined 9 years after the 1988 fires in Yellowstone National Park (YNP). Measurements were made in four sites representing a wide range of early postfire vegetation present in YNP, including high-density lodgepole pine, low-density lodgepole pine, and two nonforest stands. LAI of the pine saplings and total ANPP (trees plus herbs) generally increased with increasing sapling density, from
3659010|The sustainable use of resources requires that management practices and institutions take into account the dynamics of the ecosystem. In this paper, we explore the role of local ecological knowledge and show how it is used in management practices by a local fishing association in a contemporary rural Swedish community. We focus on the local management of crayfish, a common-pool resource, and also address the way crayfish management is linked to institutions at different levels of Swedish society. Methods from the social sciences were used for information gathering, and the results were analyzed within the framework of ecosystem management. We found that the practices of local fishing association resemble an ecosystem approach to crayfish management. Our results indicate that local users have substantial knowledge of resource and ecosystem dynamics from the level of the individual crayfish to that of the watershed, as reflected in a variety of interrelated management practices embedded in and influenced by institutions at several levels. We propose that this policy of monitoring at several levels simultaneously, together with the interpretation of a bundle of indicators and associated management responses, enhances the possibility of building ecological resilience into the watershed. Furthermore, we found that flexibility and adaptation are required to avoid command-and-control pathways of resource management. We were able to trace the development of the local fishing association as a response to crisis, followed by the creation of an opportunity for reorganization and the recognition of slow ecosystem structuring variables, and also to define the role of knowledgeable individuals in the whole process. We discuss the key roles of adaptive capacity, institutional learning, and institutional memory for successful ecosystem management and conclude that scientific adaptive management could benefit from a more explicit collaboration with flexible community-based systems of resource management for the implementation of policies as experiments.
40928209|The ridge-slough landscape of the Everglades (Florida, USA), is characterized by elevated ridges dominated by sawgrass (Cladium jamaicense) interspersed among deeper sloughs dominated by floating, submerged and emergent macrophytes and calcareous periphyton. Interactions among hydrologie conditions (water depth, hydroperiod), plant composition and production, and respiration are hypothesized to create alternative peat accretion equilibria at the point scale, while spatial interactions among patches create regular pattern at the landscape scale. Despite significant research on these interactions, few studies have examined the hypothesis that the ridge-slough landscape consists of spatially coupled alternative stable patch states, and none has used diagnostic indicators thereof to assess landscape resilience to hydrologie change. Dense random sampling of water depths (a proxy for soil elevation) along a gradient of hydrologie impairment of drained to relatively natural to impounded conditions was used to evaluate four predictions related to this hypothesis: (1) bimodal soil elevation distributions show strong fidelity to community type; (2) positive autocorrelation at short distances with negative values at longer distances; (3) strong anisotropy (diagnostic of flow orientation), and spatial structure (diagnostic of the strength of landscape self-organization); and (4) loss of these features with hydrologie modification. Our results support the hypothesis that soil elevations are strongly bimodal and anisotropic in areas with minimal hydrologie impact, and spatial autocorrelation patterns indicate the operation of scale-dependent feedbacks. These metrics change markedly with hydrologie modification, although with differences between drainage and impoundment. Moreover, changes in landform precede associated changes in vegetation, suggesting their utility as diagnostic indicators of landscape degradation and recovery.
25470425|Evaluating, and possibly ameliorating, the effects of base cation depletion in forest soils caused by acid deposition is an important topic in the northeastern United States. We added 850 kg Ca ha as wollastonite (CaSiO) to an 11.8-ha watershed at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF), a northern hardwood forest in New Hampshire, USA, in fall 1999 to replace calcium (Ca) leached from the ecosystem by acid deposition over the past 6 decades. Soil microbial biomass carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) concentrations, gross and potential net N mineralization and nitrification rates, soil solution and stream chemistry, soil:atmosphere trace gas (CO, NO, CH) fluxes, and foliar N concentrations have been monitored in the treated watershed and in reference areas at the HBEF before and since the Ca addition. We expected that rates of microbial C and N cycle processes would increase in response to the treatment. By 2000, soil pH was increased by a full unit in the Oie soil horizon, and by 2002 it was increased by nearly 0.5 units in the Oa soil horizon. However, there were declines in the N content of the microbial biomass, potential net and gross N mineralization rates, and soil inorganic N pools in the Oie horizon of the treated watershed. Stream, soil solution, and foliar concentrations of N showed no response to treatment. The lack of stimulation of N cycling by Ca addition suggests that microbes may not be stimulated by increased pH and Ca levels in the naturally acidic soils at the HBEF, or that other factors (for example, phosphorus, or Ca binding of labile organic matter) may constrain the capacity of microbes to respond to increased pH in the treated watershed. Possible fates for the approximately 10 kg N ha decline in microbial and soil inorganic pools include components of the plant community that we did not measure (for example, seedlings, understory shrubs), increased fluxes of N and/or N storage in soil organic matter. These results raise questions about the factors regulating microbial biomass and activity in northern hardwood forests that should be considered in the context of proposals to mitigate the depletion of nutrient cations in soil.
25470372|In recent analysis of factors related to nomadism in birds of semi-arid southern Australia, Allen and Saunders concluded that nomadism was related particularly to proximity to natural breaks in an ordered sequence of body weights across species, with less important relationships with weight per se and diet. That analysis is flawed by incorrect dietary codings for more than half of the species considered. This paper corrects those errors and repeats the analysis. In contrast to the previous findings, nomadism is best predicted by diet, being by far most prevalent among nectarivorous birds and least prevalent among insectivores. Such a finding is consistent with previous studies of nomadism in Australian birds. The variable of proximity to a natural break in the weight distribution of species in this community, considered by Allen and Saunders to be closely associated with nomadism, is not significantly related to nomadism for six of the eight combinations of data considered, and it is far less important than diet for the two combinations in which it does have a weakly significant (P = 0.049, 0.034) relationship with nomadism.
27823719|Abundant large herbivores can strongly alter vegetation composition, shifting the ecosystem into a lasting state of changed productivity. Previous studies of the effects of abundant reindeer on alpine and arctic vegetation have yielded equivocal results, probably due to differing environmental contexts. To overcome context dependency we devised a large-scale survey in the region of Finnmark, northern Norway, possessing some of the most densely stocked reindeer herds in the world. The effects of reindeer abundance on summer pasture vegetation were assessed by employing a quasi-experimental design, including site fertility as a potential modifier of the reindeervegetation interaction. The study design comprised ten pairs of neighboring management districts (encompassing 18,003 km2), where over the two last decades a high-density district on average had reindeer densities more than twice as high and calf weights consistently lower than the low-density district. The abundance of different plant functional groups, ranging from those having facilitating to retarding effects on ecosystem productivity, were quantified by the point intercept method on plots selected according to a hierarchical, stratified random sampling design. Species with strong retarding effects on ecosystem productivity (for example, ericoids) were by far the most abundant. However, we found no consistent effects of reindeer density on their abundance. The most consistent differences between high- and low-density districts were found in plant functional groups with facilitating to neutral effects on ecosystem productivity. In particular, the abundance of N-facilitators, large dicotyledons and grasses were substantially reduced in the high-density districts. However, this reduction was restricted to fertile sites. Thus, reindeer when present at high densities have homogenized the biomass of palatable plants across environmental productivity gradients according to predictions from exploitation ecosystem models. Such reduction of plants with facilitating to neutral effects on ecosystem productivity indicates a reduced state of ecosystem productivity in high-density districts.
40928232|Forest fires often result in a series of biogeochemical processes that increase soil nitrate (NO) concentrations for several years; however, the dynamic nature of inorganic nitrogen (N) cycling in the plant-microbe-soil complex makes it challenging to determine the direct causes of increased soil NO. We measured gross inorganic N transformation rates in mineral soils 2 years after wildfires in three central Idaho coniferous forests to determine the causes of the elevated soil NO. We also measured key factors that could affect the soil N processes, including temperature during soil incubation in situ, soil water content, pH and carbon (C) availability. We found no significant differences (P = 0.461) in gross nitrification rates between burned and control soils. However, microbial NO uptake rates were significantly lower (P = 0.078) in burned than control soils. The reduced consumption of NO caused slightly elevated NO concentrations in the burned soils. C availability was positively correlated with microbial NO uptake rates. Despite reduced microbial NO uptake capacity in the burned soils, soil microbes were a strong enough  sink to maintain low soil NO concentrations 2 years post fire. Soil NH concentrations between the treatments were not significantly different (P = 0.673). However, gross NH production and microbial uptake rates in burned soils were significantly lower (P = 0.028 and 0.035, respectively) than in the controls, and these rates were positively correlated with C availability. Our results imply that C availability is an important factor regulating soil N cycling of coniferous forests in the region.
3658838|We analyzed soil organic matter distribution and soil solution chemistry in plots with and without earthworms at two sugar maple (Acer saccharum)-dominated forests in New York State, USA, with differing land-use histories to assess the influence of earthworm invasion on the retention or loss of soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) in northern temperate forests. Our objectives were to assess the influence of exotic earthworm invasion on (a) the amount and depth distribution of soil C and N, (b) soil 
40296298|The cover and abundance of Juniperus virginiana L. in the U. S. Central Plains are rapidly increasing, largely as a result of changing land-use practices that alter fire regimes in native grassland communities. Little is known about how conversion of native grasslands to JMm'perws-dominated forests alters soil nutrient availability and ecosystem storage of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N), although such land-cover changes have important implications for local ecosystem dynamics, as well as regional C and N budgets. Four replicate native grasslands and adjacent areas of recent J. virginiana encroachment were selected to assess potential changes in soil N availability, leaf-level photosynthesis, and major ecosystem C and N pools. Net N mineralization rates were assessed in situ over two years, and changes in labile soil organic pools (potential C and N mineralization rates and microbial biomass C and N) were determined. Photosynthetic nitrogen use efficiencies (PNUE) were used to examine differences in instantaneous leaf-level N use in C uptake. Comparisons of ecosystem C and N stocks revealed significant C and N accrual in both plant biomass and soils in these newly established forests, without changes in labile soil N pools. There were few differences in monthly in situ net N mineralization rates, although cumulative annual net N mineralization was greater in forest soils compared to grasslands. Conversely, potential C mineralization was significantly reduced in forest soils. Encroachment by J. virginiana into grasslands results in rapid accretion of ecosystem C and N in plant and soil pools with little apparent change in N availability. Widespread increases in the cover of woody plants, like J. virginiana, in areas formerly dominated by graminoid species suggest an increasing role of expanding woodlands and forests as regional C sinks in the central U. S.
41505995|Intensification of catchment land use often adversely affects ecosystem health in rivers and estuaries via changes to physicochemistry and ecosystem functioning, but whether such land-use effects differ along a freshwater-marine continuum has not been studied. We investigated relationships between intensity of land use and two measures of ecosystem function in freshwater, estuarine and near-marine habitats. Standardized bioassays to determine cellulose breakdown (cotton and canvas strips) and algal accrual rates (ceramic tiles) were deployed in 10 river-to-marine continua whose catchment areas ranged from 2.6 to 99.6% developed. Using general linear models and an information-theoretic approach to select the best predictive models for our response variables, we found that higher dissolved phosphorus concentrations, linked with highly developed catchments, were associated with greater rates of cellulose decomposition (both tensile strength loss and mass loss). Furthermore, after controlling for the contribution of phosphorus or salinity, decomposition rates in freshwater and near-marine habitats generally responded curvilinearly to catchment development, indicating the involvement of additional unmeasured, land-userelated physicochemical or biological variables. The strength and shape of relationships between percentage developed land area and algal biomass accrual rates also contrasted among freshwater (strongest, curvilinear), mid-estuary (intermediate, positive), and near-marine sites (weakest, no obvious shape). Because land-use intensity can influence ecosystem functioning along the entire continuum from streams and rivers to estuaries and coasts, resource managers should adopt an integrated approach to decisions affecting catchment land use.
3659036|We used field studies and imaging spectroscopy to investigate the effect of grazing on vegetation cover in historically grazed and ungrazed high-mesa rangelands of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, Utah, USA. Airborne hyperspectral remote sensing data coupled with spectral mixture analysis uncovered subtle variations in the key biogeophysical properties of these rangelands: the fractional surface cover of photosynthetic vegetation (PV), nonphotosynthetic vegetation (NPV), and bare soil. The results show that a high-mesa area with long-term grazing management had significantly higher PV (26.3%), lower NPV (54.5%), and lower bare soil (17.2%) cover fractions in comparison to historically ungrazed high-mesa pinyon-juniper rangelands. Geostatistical analyses of remotely sensed PV, NPV, and bare soil were used to analyze differences in ecosystem structure between grazed and ungrazed regions. They showed that PV was spatially autocorrelated over longer distances on grazed areas, whereas NPV and bare soil were spatially autocorrelated over longer distances on ungrazed areas. Field data on the fractional cover of PV, NPV, and bare soil confirmed these remote sensing results locally. Field studies also showed a significantly higher percentage composition of shrubs (27.3%) and forbs (30.2%) and a significantly lower composition of grasses (34.4%) and cacti (1.1%) in grazed areas. No significant difference between grazed and ungrazed mesas was found in percentage composition of trees or in the number of canopies per hectare. Our combined remote sensing and field-based results suggest that grazing has contributed to woody thickening in these pinyon-juniper ecosystems through an increase in shrubs in the understory and intercanopy spaces. These results improve our understanding of broad-scale changes in pinyon-juniper ecosystem structural composition and variability due to longterm grazing.
3658773|Changes in climate could have far-reaching consequences for ecosystems sensitive to changes in temperature and precipitation, such as boreal permafrost peatlands and grassland/woodland boundaries. The long-term data from our studies in these ecosystems suggest that transient responses of permafrost and vegetation to climate change may be difficult to predict due to lags and positive feedbacks related to vegetation and disturbance. Boreal permafrost peatlands comprise an ecosystem with strong local controls on microclimate that influence the formation and thaw of permafrost. These local controls may preserve permafrost during the transient stages of climate warming, producing lagged responses. The prairie-forest border region of the northern Great Plains has experienced frequent change and has complex dynamics involving transitions in the grassland composition of prairie and in the degree of woodiness in bordering forests. Fire frequency interacts with fuel loading and tree recruitment in ways that affect the timing and direction of change. Lags and thresholds could lead to sudden large responses to future climate change that are not readily apparent from current vegetation. The creation of adequate models to characterize transient ecosystem changes will require an understanding of the linkages among processes operating at the scale of 10s of meters and over long time periods.
41507780|Passive open-top chambers (OTCs) and rainout shelters (RSs) have been used for over two decades to manipulate temperature and water availability in experiments on plant communities. These types of manipulations have been independently evaluated; however, as experiments become more complex and multiple factors are evaluated the potential for unknown or undesirable treatment effects increases. We present the effects of temperature manipulations (with OTCs), water manipulations (with RSs and water additions), and a clipping treatment, implemented in a fully factorial design, on soil moisture and temperature over 2 years in a temperate grassland. Temperature was increased 0.2 C by OTCs. Soil volumetric water content was reduced 3% by RSs and increased 2% by watering. However, clipping vegetation, treatment interactions, and weather conditions also affected soil temperature and moisture. For example, in OTCs RSs increased the temperature an additional 0.4C, watering lowered it 0.4C, and clipping raised temperature 2C. Similarly, changes in soil moisture due to the RSs decreased VWC by 3% and increased 1 % by clipping whereas soil moisture due to watering was reduced 1% by the OTCs and clipping. We also found that OTCs are more effective at raising temperatures on cooler days when soil temperatures are below 16.3C. Our results suggest that all treatment types generally affect soil variables in predicable ways, but use of such devices should be adopted with caution, as they do not act independently, or exclusively, on the target variables.
3659035|We measured net ecosystem exchange of carbon dioxide ( CO
40296414|We assessed how consequences of future land-use change may affect size and spatial shifts of C stocks under three potential trends in policy(a) business-as-usual: continuation of land-use trends observed during the past 15 years; (b) extensification: full extensification of open-land; and (c) liberalization: full reforestation potential. The build-up times for the three scenarios are estimated at 30, 80 and 100 years, respectively. Potential C-stock change rates are derived from the literature. Whereas the business-as-usual scenario would cause marginal changes of 0.5%, liberalization would provoke a 13% increase in C stocks (+ 62 MtC). Gains of 24% would be expected for forests (+ 95 MtC), whereas open-land C stock would decrease 27% (-33 MtC). Extensification would lead to a C stock decrease of 3% (-12 MtC). Whereas forest C is expected to increase 12% (+ 36.5 MtC) at high elevations, stocks of open-land C would decline 38.5% (-48.5 MtC). Most affected are unfavorable grasslands, which increase in area (+ 59%) but contribute only 14.5% to the C stocks. C sinks would amount to 0.6 MtC y assuming a build-up time of 100 years for the liberalization scenario. C stocks on the current forest area are increasing by 1 MtC y. The maximal total C sink of 1.6 MtC might thus suffice to compensate for agricultural greenhouse gases (2004: 1.4 Mt CO -C equivalents), but corresponds only to 11-13% of the anthropogenic greenhouse gas emission in Switzerland. Thus, even the largest of the expected terrestrial C stocks under liberalization will be small in comparison with current emissions of anthropogenic greenhouse gases.
41505864|The Mediterranean Sea has been strongly influenced by human activities for millennia. Although the environmental history of its surrounding terrestrial ecosystems has received considerable study, historical changes in its marine realm are less known. We used a multidisciplinary approach combining paleontological, archeological, historical, fisheries, and ecological data to reconstruct past changes in marine populations, habitats, and water quality in the Adriatic Sea. Then, we constructed binary food webs for different historical periods to analyze possible changes in food-web structure and functioning over time. Our results indicate that human activities have influenced marine resource abundance since at least Roman times and accelerated in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Today, 98% of traditional marine resources are depleted to less than 50% of former abundance, with large (> 1 m) predators and consumers being most affected. With 37% of investigated species rare and 11% extirpated, diversity has shifted towards smaller, lower trophiclevel species, further aggravated by more than 40 species invasions. Species providing habitat and filter functions have been reduced by 75%, contributing to the degradation of water quality and increased eutrophication. Increased exploitation and functional extinctions have altered and simplified foodweb structure over time, especially by changing the proportions of top predators, intermediate consumers, and basal species. Moreover, simulations of species losses indicate that today's ecosystems may be less robust to species extinctions than in the past. Our results illustrate the long-term and far-reaching consequences human activities can have on marine food webs and ecosystems.
3658681|Plant species can influence nitrogen (N) cycling indirectly through the feedbacks of litter quality and quantity on soil N transformation rates. The goal of this research was to focus on small-scale (within-community) variation in soil N cycling associated with two community dominants of the moist meadow alpine tundra. Within this community, the small-scale patchiness of the two most abundant species (Acomastylis rossii and Deschampsia caespitosa) provides natural variation in species cover within a relatively similar microclimate, thus enabling estimation of the effects of plant species on soil N transformation rates. Monthly rates of soil N transformations were dependent on small-scale variation in both soil microclimate and species cover. The relative importance of species cover compared with soil microclimate increased for months 2 and 3 of the 3-month growing season. Growing-season net N mineralization rates were over ten times greater and nitrification rates were four times greater in Deschampsia patches than in Acomastylis patches. Variability in litter quality [carbon:nitrogen (C:N) and phenolic:N], litter quantity (aboveground and fine-root production), and soil quality (C:N) was associated with three principal components. Variability between the species in litter quality and fine-root production explained 31% of the variation in net N mineralization rates and 36% of net nitrification rates. Site variability across the landscape in aboveground production and soil C:N explained 33% of the variation in net N mineralization rates and 21% of net nitrification rates. Within the moist meadow community, the high spatial variability in soil N transformation rates was associated with differences in the dominant species' litter quality and fine-root production. Deschampsia-dominated patches consistently had greater soil N transformation rates than did Acomastylis-dominated patches across the landscape, despite site variability in soil moisture, soil C:N, and aboveground production. Plant species appear to be an important control of soil N transformation in the alpine tundra, and consequently may influence plant community structure and ecosystem function.
27823680|Biometric based carbon flux measurements were conducted over 5 years (19992003) in a temperate deciduous broad-leaved forest of the AsiaFlux network to estimate net ecosystem production (NEP). Biometric based NEP, as measured by the balance between net primary production (including NPP of canopy trees and of forest floor dwarf bamboo) and heterotrophic respiration (RH), clarified the contribution of various biological processes to the ecosystem carbon budget, and also showed where and how the forest is storing C. The mean NPP of the trees was 5.4  1.07 t C ha1 y1, including biomass increment (0.3  0.82 t C ha1 y1), tree mortality (1.0  0.61 t C ha1 y1), aboveground detritus production (2.3  0.39 t C ha1 y1) and belowground fine root production (1.8  0.31 t C ha1 y1). Annual biomass increment was rather small because of high tree mortality during the 5 years. Total NPP at the site was 6.5  1.07 t C ha1 y1, including the NPP of the forest floor community (1.1  0.06 t C ha1 y1). The soil surface CO2 efflux (RS) was averaged across the 5 years of record using open-flow chambers. The mean estimated annual RS amounted to 7.1  0.44 t C ha1, and the decomposition of soil organic matter (SOM) was estimated at 3.9  0.24 t C ha1. RH was estimated at 4.4  0.32 t C ha1 y1, which included decomposition of coarse woody debris. Biometric NEP in the forest was estimated at 2.1  1.15 t C ha1 y1, which agreed well with the eddy-covariance based net ecosystem exchange (NEE). The contribution of woody increment (biomass + mortality) of the canopy trees to NEP was rather small, and thus the SOM pool played an important role in carbon storage in the temperate forest. These results suggested that the dense forest floor of dwarf bamboo might have a critical role in soil carbon sequestration in temperate East Asian deciduous forests.
3659000| Soil respiration (SR), a substantial component of the forest carbon budget, has been studied extensively at the ecosystem, regional, continental, and global scales, but little progress has been made toward understanding SR over managed forest landscapes. Soil respiration is often influenced by soil temperature
41505937|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is recognized as a major component in the global carbon cycle and is an important driver in aquatic ecosystem function. Climate, land use, and forest cover changes all impact stream DOM and alter biogeochemical cycles in terrestrial environments. We determined the temporal variation in DOM quantity and quality in headwater streams at a reference watershed (REF), a watershed clear-cut 30 years ago (CC), and a watershed converted to a white pine plantation 50 years ago (WP) at the US Forest Service, Coweeta Hydrologie Laboratory, in the Nantahala Mountains of western North Carolina, USA. Average stream dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations in CC or WP were 60 and 80% of those in REF, respectively. Stream DOM composition showed that the difference was mainly due to changes in humiclike components in chromophoric DOM. In addition, excitation-emission matrix fluorescence data with parallel factor analysis indicate that although the concentration of protein-like components did not differ significantly among watersheds, their relative abundance showed an enrichment in CC and WP compared to REF. The ratio of humic acid-type to fulvic acid-type components was highest and lowest at REF and WP, respectively. Our data suggest that forest ecosystem disturbance history affects the DOM quantity and quality in headwater streams over decades as a result of changes in watershed soil organic matter characteristics due to differences in organic matter inputs.
3658595| Although tidal wetland vegetation patterns are typically related to elevation, we hypothesized that the vertical range of a species may shift where the topography is more heterogeneous. We examined plant species occurrences in relation to elevation, proximity to the bay, and proximity to tidal creeks at a near-pristine wetland in San Quintn Bay, Baja California, Mexico. At the whole-wetland scale, most species occurred primarily within a 30-cm elevation band (the marsh plain). However, Spartina foliosa occurred only at the bayward margin, even though "suitable" elevations were present further inland. A similar pattern was found in San Diego Bay. At the microtopographic scale, three species on the marsh plain were strongly influenced by elevation, whereas four species responded to both elevation and proximity to tidal creeks. The latter species tended to "avoid" the lower 10 cm of the marsh plain except near a tidal creek. Species richness was thus greater (by 0.6 species at the lowest 10-cm class) at the tidal creek margin. Better drainage near creeks is the hypothesized cause. Our results help explain why species that are transplanted to constructed wetlands do not always grow at the full range of elevations they occupy in natural wetlands. We recommend that species be introduced to their modal elevation (determined from nearby reference marshes) and that salt-marsh construction designs include topographic heterogeneity (complex tidal creek networks). The analysis of broad-scale and fine-scale patterns of occurrence also suggests new habitat nomenclature. Elevation-based terms ("low," "middle," and "high" marsh) should be replaced by a system that considers elevation, landscape position, and conspicuous species. We suggest three habitat designations: (a) the high marsh-a 30- to 70-cm elevation range with Salicornia subterminalis; (b) the marsh plain-a 30-cm elevation range with heterogeneous topography and up to nine common species; and (c) cordgrass habitat-the bayward portion of the marsh plain and lower elevations, all occupied by Spartina foliosa. Although these habitats do not have discrete boundaries, separate terms are needed for wetland restoration plans and these designations will improve recognition that vegetation patterns respond to horizontal, as well as vertical, position. 
27823726|To interpret broad-scale erosion and accretion patterns and the expansion and contraction of shrub thickets in response to sea level rise for a coastal barrier system, we examined the fine-scale processes of shrub recruitment and mortality within the context of the influence of ocean current and sediment transport processes on variations in island size and location. We focused on Myrica cerifera shrub thickets, the dominant woody community on most barrier islands along the coastline of the southeastern USA. Observations suggest that M. cerifera, a salt-intolerant species, is increasing in cover throughout the Virginia barrier islands, yet rising sea level in response to climate change is increasing erosion and reducing island area. Our objective was to explain this apparent paradox using patternprocess relationships across a range of scales with a focus on ocean currents and sediment transport interacting with island characteristics at intermediate scales. Multi-decadal comparisons across scales showed a complex pattern. At the scale of the entire Virginia barrier complex, modest decreases in upland area were accompanied by large increases in shrub area. Responses were more variable for individual islands, reflecting inter-island variations in erosion and accretion due to differences in sediment transport via ocean currents. Several islands underwent dramatic shrub expansion. Only for within-island responses were there similarities in the pattern of change, with a lag-phase after initial shrub colonization followed by development of linear, closed canopy thickets. Understanding the fine-scale processes of shrub seedling establishment and thicket development, in conjunction with the influence of ocean currents and sediment transport, provides a framework for interpreting island accretion and erosion patterns and subsequent effects on shrub thicket expansion or contraction across scales of time and space.
25622903|To better understand how management and restoration practices influence the response of terrestrial ecosystems to large-scale distrubances, it is critical to study above- and belowground effects. In this study, we examined the immediate effect of a major hurricane on aboveground forest structure, arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) and belowground carbon pools in experimentally thinned plots in a tropical forest. The hurricane occurred five years after a thinning treatment, when thinned plots had similar aboveground carbon stocks but different forest structure compared to control plots. Thinned plots had more large diameter (> 10 cm) trees compared to the control plots, which were characterized by a higher density of small diameter (<10 cm) trees. Despite pre-hurricane differences in forest structure, there were no significant differences between treatments in changes of canopy openness or number of affected trees following the hurricane. Thinned plots had larger belowground carbon pools than the controls plots before the hurricane, and these differences remained after the hurricane despite rapid decomposition of organic matter rich in nitrogen. There were no pre-hurricane differences in AM fungal spores or total AM root colonization. The hurricane reduced AM sporulation by nearly 50% in both treatments, yet we observed a significant increase in AM root colonization after the hurricane with greater AM colonization in the thinned plots. Hurricanes have well-known visible aboveground effects, but here we showed that less visible belowground effects are influenced by forest management and may play an important role in forest recovery.
40603651|The exchange of elements between plants and the soil in which they are growing creates reciprocal control of their element composition. Within plants, the growth rate hypothesis from ecological stoichiometry implies a strong coupling between C, N, and P. No similar theory exists for predicting relationships between elements in the soil or relationships between plants and the soil. We used a data set of element concentrations in needles and humus of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) and Norway spruce (Picea abies) forests in Sweden to investigate the extent to which relationships between elements (C, N, P, S, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Al) can be observed within and between plants and soils. We found element composition to be more strongly controlled in needles than in humus. Elements that are covalently bound were also more strongly controlled, with no apparent differences between macro-and micronutrients. With the exception of N/C, there were surprisingly few relationships between elements in needles and humus. We found no major differences between the two tree species studied, but investigations of additional forest types are needed for firm conclusions. More control over element composition was exercised with respect to  than C, particularly in needles, so it might be advantageous to express nutrient concentrations relative to  rather than on a dry weight or carbon basis. Variations in many ecosystem variables appeared to lack ecological significance and thus an important task is to identify the meaningful predictors.
25470367|Geomorphology, vegetation and tidal fluxes are usually identified as the factors introducing variation in the flushing of particulate organic matter (POM) from tidal marshes to adjacent waters. Such variables may, however, be insufficient to explain export characteristics in marshes inhabited by ecosystem engineers that can alter the quantity and quality of POM on the marsh surface that is subject to tidal flushing. In this study we evaluated the balance between transfer of buried sedimentary organic carbon (C) to the marsh surface due to crab excavation (measured from the mounds of sediment excavated from burrows) and outputs of C from the surface due to sediment deposition within crab burrows (estimated from sediment deposited within PVC burrow mimics), in a Southwestern Atlantic salt marsh supporting dense (approximately 70 ind m) populations of the crab Chasmagnathus granulatus. C excavation by crabs was much greater than deposition of C within crab burrow mimics. Per area unit estimates of the balance between these two processes indicated that crabs excavated 5.98 g m d and 4.80 mg m d of total and readily (10 d) labile C, respectively. However, sediments excavated by crabs showed a significantly lower content of both total and readily-labile C than sediment collected in burrow mimics. This indicates that ecosystem engineering by burrowing crabs causes a net decrease in the concentration of C in the superficial sediment layers and, thus, an overall decrease in the amount of C that can be washed out of the marsh by tidal action. Incorporating the in situ activities of ecosystem engineers in models of marsh export should enhance understanding of the function of marshes in estuarine ecosystems.
3658623| Over the past several decades, the conversion of native forest to agricultural land uses has accelerated across the Amazon Basin. Despite a growing body of research on nutrient dynamics in Amazonian primary forest and forest-derived land uses, the effects of widespread land-use change on nutrient contents and cycles in soil and vegetation are not well understood. We reviewed over 100 studies conducted in Amaznia over the past 40 years on nutrient dynamics in natural forests and forest-derived land uses (pasture, shifting cultivation, and tree plantations). Our objectives were to compare soil data from land uses across Amaznia and identify any gaps in our present knowledge that might offer direction for future research. Specifically, by analyzing data we tested the following five widely cited hypotheses concerning the effects of land-use change on soil properties compiled from 39 studies in multifactorial ANOVA models; (a) soil pH, effective cation exchange capacity (ECEC), and exchangeable calcium (Ca) concentrations rise and remain elevated following the slash-and-burn conversion of forest to pasture or crop fields; (b) soil contents of total carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and inorganic readily extractable (that is, Bray, Mehlich I, or resin) phosphorus ( P
40296411|Habitat transformations and climate change are among the most important drivers of biodiversity loss. Understanding the factors responsible for the unequal distribution of species richness is a major challenge in ecology. Using data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey to measure species richness and a change metric extracted from the MODerate resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), we examined the influence of energy variability on the geographic distribution of avian richness across the conterminous U. S. and in the different ecoregions, while controlling for energy availability. The analysis compared three groups of birds: all species, Neotropical migrants, and permanent residents. We found that interannual variability in available energy explained more than half of the observed variation in bird richness in some ecoregions. In particular, energy variability is an important factor in explaining the patterns of overall bird richness and of permanent residents, in addition to energy availability. Our results showed a decrease in species richness with increasing energy variability and decreasing energy availability, suggesting that more species are found in more stable and more productive environments. However, not all ecoregions followed this pattern. The exceptions might reflect other biological factors and environmental conditions. With more ecoclimatic variability predicted for the future, this study provides insight into how energy variability influences the geographical patterns of species richness.
40603423|Riparian ecosystems are recognized as sinks for inorganic nitrogen (N). Denitrification, a heterotrophic microbial process, often accounts for a significant fraction of the N removed. Characteristics of both riparian soils and hydrologie vectors may constrain the locations where denitrification can occur within riparian ecosystems by influencing the distribution of substrates, water, and suitable redox conditions. We employed spatially explicit methods to quantify heterogeneity of soil characteristics and potential rate of denitrification in semi-arid riparian ecosystems. These results allow us to evaluate the relative contributions of hydro -logic vectors (water courses that convey materials) and soil resources (materials required by biota) to spatial heterogeneity of denitrification. During dry and monsoon seasons we contrasted a mesic site, characterized by shallow groundwater and annual inundation by floods, with a xeric site that is inundated less often and has a deeper water table.Potential denitrification was detected throughout the mesic floodplain and the average rate of denitrification was greater at the mesic site than at the xeric site, indicating the influence of water availability on denitrification. At the xeric reach, sharp declines in pools of soil resources and rate of denitrification occurred away from the stream, demonstrating the importance of the stream in determining spatial patterns. Using geographically weighted regression analysis, we determined that soil organic matter and soil nitrate were significant predictors of denitrification at the xeric site, but that factors influencing denitrification varied spatially. Spatial heterogeneity of carbon (C) and N substrates in soils likely influenced spatial patterns of denitrification, but distribution of C and N substrates was ultimately organized by hydrologie vectors. Droughts will increase the abundance of reaches with hydrogeomorphic templates similar to the xeric reach studied here. Consequences of such a transition may include a reduced rate of denitrification and patchy distribution of denitrification in floodplain soils, which will decrease the contribution of riparian ecosystems to N removal.
41507776|Management of ecological disturbances requires an understanding of the time scale and dynamics of community responses to disturbance events. To characterize long-term seagrass bed responses to nutrient enrichment, we established six study sites in Florida Bay, USA. In 24 plots (0.25 m) at each site, we regularly added nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in a factorial design for 7 years. Five of the six sites exhibited strong P limitation. Over the first 2 years, P enrichment increased Thalassia testudinum cover in the three most P-limited sites. After 3 years, Halodule wrightii began to colonize many of the P-addition plots, but the degree of colonization was variable among sites, possibly due to differences in the supply of viable propagules. Thalassia increased its allocation to aboveground tissue in response to P enrichment; Halodule increased in total biomass but did not appear to change its aboveground: belowground tissue allocation. Nutrient enrichment did not cause macroalgal or epiphytic overgrowth of the seagrass. Nitrogen retention in the study plots was variable but relatively low, whereas phosphorus retention was very high, often exceeding 100% of the P added as fertilizer over the course of our experiments. Phosphorus retentions exceeding 100% may have been facilitated by increases in Thalassia aboveground biomass, which promoted the settlement of suspended particulate matter containing phosphorus. Our study demonstrated that lowintensity press disturbance events such as phosphorus enrichment can initiate a slow, ramped successional process that may alter community structure over many years.
3658905| Spatial and temporal variations in net primary production (NPP) are of great importance to ecological studies, natural resource management, and terrestrial carbon sink estimates. However, most of the existing estimates of interannual variation in NPP at regional and global scales were made at coarse resolutions with climate-driven process models. In this study, we quantified global NPP variation at an 8 km and 10-day resolution from 1981 to 2000 based on satellite observations. The high resolution was achieved using the GLObal Production Efficiency Model (GLO-PEM), which was driven with variables derived almost entirely from satellite remote sensing. The results show that there was an increasing trend toward enhanced terrestrial NPP that was superimposed on high seasonal and interannual variations associated with climate variability and that the increase was occurring in both northern and tropical latitudes. NPP generally decreased in El Nio season and increased in La Nia seasons, but the magnitude and spatial pattern of the response varied widely between individual events. Our estimates also indicate that the increases in NPP during the period were caused mainly by increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide and precipitation. The enhancement of NPP by warming was limited to northern high latitudes (above 50N); in other regions, the interannual variations in NPP were correlated negatively with temperature and positively with precipitation. 
43677500|Large herbivores and termites are important functional groups in African savannahs. Both groups affect small mammals, which are also important determinants for savannah structure and function. Because vegetation on Macrotermes mounds are preferentially grazed by large herbivores, and mounds represent resource-rich distinct habitat patches for small mammals in relatively resourcepoor savannahs, termite mounds are ideal sites for studies of how grazing by large mammals and productivity affect communities of small mammals. We conducted an experiment in Lake Mburo National Park, Uganda, with four treatments: large vegetated Macrotermes mounds (with and without large herbivores) and adjacent savannah areas (with and without large herbivores). We replicated the treatment blocks nine times and trapped small mammals regularly over a period of almost 2 years. Small mammal species assemblages differed considerably between mounds and savannah areas. Grazing had a substantial effect on small mammal species assemblages in the resource-poor savannah, but not in the relatively resource-rich termitaria. Small mammal species abundance, biomass, and richness were higher on termite mounds than adjacent savannah areas. Excluding large herbivores caused a major increase in species abundance, biomass, and richness both on savannah and termitaria. Herbaceous plant species evenness was an important determinant of the small mammal community. Small mammal biomass increased with high plant dominance, indicating that a few dominant plant species are important for biomass production of small mammals. Small mammal diversity was not related to any of the treatments, but increased with plant species evenness as well as richness. Fencing increased species dominance in the small mammal community on both savannah and termitaria, probably because competitive patterns shift from inter-guild (that is, between large and small mammals) to intra-guild (that is, between small mammals) when large mammals are excluded. The study highlights the complex interactions among large herbivores, termites, herbaceous plants, and small mammals in African savannahs. When studying the structure and function of small mammal communities it is therefore important to consider several coexisting functional groups.
3658907|We compared phosphorus (P) dynamics and plant productivity in two montane tropical rain forests (Mount Kinabalu, Borneo) that derived from similar parent materials (largely sedimentary rocks) and had similar climates but differed in terms of soil age. The younger site originated from Quaternary colluvial deposits, whereas the older site had Tertiary-age material. The older site had a distinctive spodic horizon, reduced levels of labile inorganic soil P, higher concentrations of recalcitrant organic soil P, and lower rates of net soil N mineralization. P fertilization led to soil nitrogen (N) immobilization in the P-deficient soil, indicating that soil N mineralization was limited by P at the P-deficient older site. Mean foliar nutrient concentration (on both a weight and an area basis) was similar at the two sites for all elements except P, which was lower at the older site. Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) was lower at the older site than at the younger one; this difference could be explained by the reduced availability of P and N (as down-regulated by P) at the older site. The relatively ample allocation of P and N to leaves, despite the reduced availability at the P-deficient old site, was attributable to its high resorption efficiency. High resorption resulted in lower concentrations of elements in leaf litter-that is, less decomposable low-quality litter. On the other hand, the concentration of leaf litter lignin was considerably lower at the older site; this appeared to be a de facto adaptive mechanism to avoid retarding litter decomposition.
3658726|Reducing uncertainty in predictions of regional-scale models depends on meaningful contrasts with field measurements. This paper introduces a two-stage process that works from the premise that an appropriate goal for regional models is to produce reasonable behavior over dominant environmental gradients. We demonstrate two techniques for contrasting models with data, one based on the shape of modeled relationships (functional contrasts) and the other based on an examination of the residuals (residual contrasts) between the model and an empirically derived surface fit to field data. Functional contrasts evaluated the differences between the response of simulated net primary production (NPP) to climate variables and the response observed in field measurements of NPP. Residual contrasts compared deviations of NPP from the empirical surface to identify groupings (for example, vegetation classes, geographic regions) with model deviations different from those of the field data. In all model-data contrasts, we assigned sample weights to field measurements to ensure unbiased representation of the region, and we included both constructive comparisons and formal statistical tests. In general, we learned more from constructive methods designed to reveal structure or pattern in discrepancy than we did from statistical tests designed to falsify models. Although our constructive methods were more subjective and less concise, they succeeded in revealing gaps in our understanding of regional-scale processes that can guide future efforts to reduce scientific uncertainty. This was best illustrated by NPP predictions from the Biome-BGC model, which showed a stronger response to precipitation than apparently operates in the field. In another case, differences revealed in savanna and dry woodlands had insufficient field-data support, suggesting a need for future field studies to improve understanding in this, and other, poorly studied ecosystems.
40603432|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) plays several important roles in forest ecosystem development, undergoing chemical, physical and/or biological reactions that affect ecosystem nutrient retention. Very few studies have focused on gross rates of DOM production, and we know of no study that has directly measured DOM production from root litter. Our objectives were to quantify major sources of total potentially water-soluble organic matter (DOM tps ) production, with an emphasis on production from root litter, to quantify and compare total potentially soluble organic C, N, and P (DOC tps , DON tps , and DOP tps ) production, and to quantify changes in their production during forest primary succession and ecosystem development at the Mt. Shasta Mudflows ecosystem chronosequence. To do so, we exhaustively extracted freshly senesced root and leaf and other aboveground litter for DOC tps , DON tps , and DOP tps by vegetation category, and we calculated DOM tps production (g m y) at the ecosystem level using data for annual production of fine root and aboveground litter. DOM production from throughfall was calculated by measuring throughfall volume and concentration over 2 years. Results showed that DOM tps production from root litter was a very important source of D0M t p s in the Mount Shasta mudflow ecosystems, in some cases comparable to production from leaf litter for DON tps and larger than production from leaf litter for DOP tps . Total DOC tps and DON tps production from all sources increased early in succession from the 77-to the 255-year-old ecosystem. However, total DOP tps production across the ecosystem chronosequence showed a unique pattern. Generally, the relative importance of root litter for total fine detrital DOC tps and DON tps production increased significantly during ecosystem development. Furthermore, DOC tps and DON tps production were predominantly driven by changes in biomass production during ecosystem development, whereas changes in litter solubility due to changes in species composition had a smaller effect. We suggest that DOM tps production from root litter may be an important source of organic matter for the accumulation of SOM during forest ecosystem development.
25470319|Patches of submerged vegetation can be important sites of primary production and habitat for organisms in many aquatic ecosystems. In the tidal freshwater Hudson River they make up about 6% of the river bottom area. Direct sampling of water masses passing through patches of vegetation and week-long continuous monitoring of water characteristics were used to determine plant effects on dissolved oxygen and suspended sediments. Vegetated areas could have dissolved oxygen concentrations substantially higher than in the main channel and suspended sediments and turbidity were frequently higher in vegetated areas. Patches of Vallisneria americana had variable capacity to maintain super-saturated oxygen concentrations; patch size accounted for some of the variability whereas larger-scale differences in main-channel influent water also contributed. Differences in turbidity among sites were harder to account for; width of plant beds and abundance of neighboring vegetated areas contributed weakly to predictions of local turbidity. Functional heterogeneity within ecosystems is common and attempts to explain variability may require understanding different controlling factors for different functions and appreciating that factors operate at multiple scales.
40296269|Invasive alien grasses can substantially alter fuel loads and fire regimes which could have significant consequences for fire-mediated nutrient losses. The effects of the alien grass Andropogon gayanus Kunth. (Gamba grass) on fire-mediated nutrient losses was evaluated in Australia's tropical savannas. Losses of macronutrients during fire were determined by comparing the nutrient pools contained in the fine fuel before fire and in the ash after fire. Pre-fire grass nutrient pools were significantly higher in A. gayanus plots than in native grass plots for all nutrients measured (N, P, K, S, Ca, and Mg). Nutrient losses were substantially higher in A. gayanus plots, with 113% higher losses for N, 80% for P, 56% for K, 63 for S, 355% for Ca, and 345% for Mg. However, only losses of N and Mg varied significantly between grass types. A simplified savanna ecosystem nutrient budget estimated that A. gayanus fires led to the net N loss of 20 kg ha y. This is a conservative estimate because total fuel loads were relatively low (7.85 t ha ) for A. gayanus invaded plots leading to a relatively moderate intensity fire (6,408 kW m" 1 ). Higher A. gayanus fuel loads and fire intensities could potentially lead to losses of up to 61.5 kg N ha from the grass fuel. Over the long term, this is likely to lead to depletion of soil nutrients, particularly N, in the already low-fertility tropical savanna soils.
25470382|Soil organic carbon (SOC) represents a significant pool of carbon within the biosphere. Climatic shifts in temperature and precipitation have a major influence on the decomposition and amount of SOC stored within an ecosystem. We have linked net primary production algorithms, which include the impact of enhanced atmospheric CO on plant growth, to the Soil Organic Carbon Resources And Transformations in EcoSystems (SOCRATES) model to develop a SOC map for the North Central Region of the United States between the years 1850 and 2100 in response to agricultural activity and climate conditions generated by the CSIRO Mk2 Global Circulation Model (GCM) and based on the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) IS92a emission scenario. We estimate that the current day (1990) stocks of SOC in the top 10 cm of the North Central Region to be 4692 Mt, and 8090 Mt in the top 20 cm of soil. This is 19% lower than the pre-settlement steady state value predicted by the SOCRATES model. By the year 2100, with temperature and precipitation increasing across the North Central Region by an average of 3.9C and 8.1 cm, respectively, SOCRATES predicts SOC stores of the North Central Region to decline by 11.5 and 2% (in relation to 1990 values) for conventional and conservation tillage scenarios, respectively.
41505890|Human activity is drastically altering global nitrogen (N) availability. The extent to which ecosystems absorb additional Nand with it, additional COdepends on whether net primary production (NPP) is N-limited, so it is important to understand conditions under which N can limit NPP. Here I use a general dynamical model to show that N limitation at steady-statesuch as in old-growth forestsdepends on the balance of biotically controllable versus uncontrollable N inputs and losses. Steady-state N limitation is only possible when uncontrollable inputs (for example, atmospheric deposition) exceed controllable losses (for example, leaching of plant-available soil N), which is the same as when uncontrollable losses (for example, leaching of plant-unavailable soil N) exceed controllable inputs (biological N fixation). These basic results are robust to many model details, such as the number of plant-unavailable soil N pools and the number and type of N fixers. Empirical data from old-growth tropical (Hawai'i) and temperate (Oregon, Washington, Chile) forests support the model insights. Practically, this means that any N fixersymbiotic or notcould overcome ecosystem N limitation, so understanding N limitation requires understanding controls on all N fixers. Further, comparing losses of plant-available N to abiotic inputs could offer a rapid diagnosis of whether ecosystems can be N-limited, although the applicability of this result is constrained to ecosystems with a steady-state N cycle such as old-growth forests largely devoid of disturbance.
41507790|Recent meta-analyses of experimental studies simulating increased anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition in forests reveal greater soil carbon (C) storage under elevated levels of atmospheric N deposition. However, these effects have not yet been included in ecosystem-scale models of soil C and N cycling and it is unclear whether incresed soil C storage results from slower decomposition rates or a reduced extent of decomposition (for example, an increase in the amount of litter entering slowly decaying humus pools). To test these alternatives, we conducted a meta-analysis of litter decomposition data. We then used the results from our meta-analysis to model and N cycling in four sugar maple forests in Michigan using an ecosystem process model (TRACE). We compared model results testing our alternative hypotheses to field data on soil storage from a 17-year N deposition experiment. Using data from published litter decomposition studies in forests, we determined that, on average, exogenous N inputs decreased lignin decomposition rates by 30% and increased cellulose decomposition by 9%. In the same set of litter decomposition studies increased exogenous N availability increased the amount of litter entering slowly decaying humus pools in a manner significantly related to the lignocellulose index of decaying litter. Incorporating changes to decomposition rates in TRACE did not accurately reproduce greater soil C storage observed in our field study with experimentally elevated N deposition. However, when changes in the extent of decomposition were incorporated in TRACE, the model produced increased soil C storage by increasing the amount of litter entering the humus pool and accurately represented storage in plant and soil pools under experimental N deposition. Our modeling results and meta-analysis indicate that the extent of litter decay as humus is formed, rather than slower rates of litter decay, is likely responsible for the accumulation of organic matter, and hence soil storage, under experimental N deposition. This effect should be incorporated in regional to global-scale models simulating the C balance of forest ecosystems in regions receiving elevated N deposition.
25470409|The colonial urochordate Botryllus schlosseri is a sedentary species of Mediterranean origin that became cosmopolitan, probably because of postglacial-period dispersal and human-mediated invasions of colonies attached to ship hulls. Here we studied microsatellite allele diversity of Atlantic coast populations from an area ranging from European regions south of the last glacial front to regions that had been permanently ice-covered. Gene diversity levels varied dramatically among populations residing in areas subject to different glacial conditions. Five populations from the Iberian Peninsula, in an area south of the last glacial front, as well as two populations from presumed refugia in Brittany, expressed high gene diversity values (expected heterozygosity [He]: 0.76-0.80; average number of alleles per locus [A]: 7.25-8.75). Two populations inhabiting areas that experienced permafrost conditions (Helgoland Island, Germany, and Plymouth, England) had intermediate values (He: 0.40-0.42; A: 3.0-4.0), whereas the Auchenmalg, Scotland, population, from an area previously covered by ice, showed a remarkably low value (He: 0.17; A: 1.75). Therefore, most European populations of B. schlosseri mirrored the movement of the ice front in the last ice age. A second population from the area that was covered by permanent ice (Lossiemouth, Scotland), however, had a high He of 0.61 and an intermediate A of 3.67. Results were compared with recent invasions (populations less than 200 years old) in the United States and New Zealand that had a higher degree of genetic variation than the European native populations established thousands of years ago. Given the overall dearth of studies on this subject, we suggest that in contemporary established Botryllus populations, gene diversity is affected by ecological factors, some of which can be traced directly to the last ice age. Other parameters of gene diversity are influenced by selection pressure, which might be more intense in northern regions.
3658603|The deposition of anthropogenically fixed nitrogen (N) from the atmosphere onto land and plant surfaces has strong influences on terrestrial ecosystem processes. Although recent research has expanded our understanding of how N deposition affects ecosystems directly, less attention has been directed toward the investigation of how N deposition may affect ecosystems indirectly by modifying interactions among organisms. Empirical evidence suggests that there are several mechanisms by which N deposition may affect interactions between plants and insect herbivores. The most likely mechanisms are deposition-induced shifts in the quality and availability of host plant tissues. We discuss the effects of N deposition on host plant chemistry, production, and phenology, and we review the evidence for the effects of N deposition on insect herbivores at the individual, population, and community levels. In general, N deposition has positive effects on individual insect performance, probably due to deposition-induced improvements in host plant chemistry. These improvements include increased N and decreased carbon-based defensive compound concentrations. The evidence to date suggests that N deposition may also have a positive effect on insect populations. These effects may have considerable ecological, as well as economic consequences if the rates of herbivory on economically important timber species continue to increase. Deposition-induced changes in plant-herbivore relationships may affect community and ecosystem processes. However, we predict that the larger-scale consequences of interactions between N deposition and herbivory will vary based on site-specific factors. In addition, interactions between N deposition and other global-scale changes may lead to nonadditive effects on patterns of herbivory.
40792954|River floodplains are composed of a shifting mosaic of aquatic and terrestrial habitats. Each habitat type exhibits distinct environmental and ecological properties. Temperature is a key property driving ecological processes and controlling the composition and distribution of biota. However, given the size and complexity of floodplains, ground surveys based on point measurements are spatially limited. In this study, we applied thermal infrared (IR) imagery to quantify surface temperature patterns at 12-15 min intervals over 24 h cycles in two nearnatural Alpine river floodplains (Roseg, Tagliamento). Furthermore, vertical temperature distribution was measured at 3-5 min intervals in unsaturated gravel sediment deposits (at 1 cm distances; 0-29 cm depth). Each habitat type exhibited a distinct thermal signature creating a complex thermal mosaic. The diel temperature pulse and maximum daily temperature were the main thermal components that differentiated habitat types. In both floodplains, exposed gravel sediments exhibited the highest diel pulse (up to 23C), whereas in aquatic habitats the pulse was as low as 11C (main channel in the Roseg floodplain). In the unsaturated gravel sediment deposits, the maximum diel kinetic temperature pulse ranged from 40.4C (sediment surface) to 2.7C (29 cm sediment depth). Vertically, the spatiotemporal variation of temperature was about as high as horizontally across the entire floodplain surface. This study emphasized that remotely sensed thermal IR imagery provides a powerful non-invasive method to quantitatively assess thermal heterogeneity of complex aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems at a resolution required to understand ecosystem processes and the distribution of biota.
40603437|To understand how carbon (C) pools in boreal ecosystems may change with warming, we measured above and belowground C pools and C increment along a soil temperature gradient across 16 mature upland black spruce (Picea mariana Mill. [B.S.P]) forests in interior Alaska. Total spruce C stocks (stand and root C) increased from 1.3 to 8.5 kg C m with increasing soil summed degreedays (SDD > 0C at 10 cm) across sites, whereas soil C stocks decreased from 11.9 to 6.3 kg C m with increasing SDD. Spruce C and organic soil C, which combined represent maximum C accrual since the last fire, increased with soil heat sums until 600 SDD, and then plateaued with increasing SDD across sites (R = 0.61, P = 0.002; second-order polynomial regression). The sum of soil and total spruce C (total ecosystem C, TEC) reached its maximum in the middle-range of soil temperatures measured (approximately 600 SDD), and was lower in the coolest (139 SDD) and the warmest (914 SDD) forests. The opposing trends between above-and belowground pools resulted in C shifting from the soil to spruce biomass with warmer soil temperatures. A shift in C distribution from below-to aboveground pools, as temperature increases, has implications for the vulnerability of C lost in boreal forest wildfires. The strongly negative relationship between surface mineral soil C stocks and increasing temperatures warrants further research into the potential loss of deep mineral soil C stocks with continued warming, especially in forests presently underlain with permafrost.
3658881|Conventional studies of nitrogen (N) cycling in forest ecosystems have focused on inorganic N uptake as the primary source of N for plant metabolism. More recently, however, alternative sources of N for plant nutrition, such as free amino acids, have gained attention, particularly in nutrient-limited systems. Using a multiple stable isotope
25622872|Forest microclimate plays an integral role in ecosystem processes, yet a predictive understanding of its spatial and temporal variability in heterogeneous landscapes is largely lacking. In this study, we used regression kriging (RK) to analyze the degree to which physiographic versus ecological variables influence spatio-temporal variation in understory microclimate conditions. We monitored understory temperature in 200 forest plots within a 274 km environmentally heterogeneous region in northern California (0.55 obs/km). For each plot location, we measured four physiographic influences (elevation, coastal proximity, potential solar radiation, topographic wetness index) and three ecological drivers (forest patch size, proximity to forest edge, tree abundance). Temperature observations were aggregated to three time scales (hourly, daily, and monthly) to examine temporal variability in microclimate dynamics and its effect on spatial prediction. The obtained prediction models included both physiographic and vegetative effects, although the relative importance of individual effects varied greatly between the different models. Across time scales, elevation and coastal proximity had the most consistent physiographic effects on temperature, followed by the vegetative effects of forest patch size and distance to forest edge. RK captured significantly more landscape-scale variability in understory temperature than a regression-only approach with considerably better model performance at hourly and daily time scales than at a monthly scale. Using varied sampling density scenarios our results also suggest that predictive accuracy drops considerably at densities less than 0.34 obs/km. This research illustrates how geospatial and statistical modeling can be used to distinguish physiographic versus ecological effects on microclimate dynamics and elucidates the spatial and temporal scales that these processes operate.
27823699|Critical transition zones, such as aquaticterrestrial interfaces, have been recognized as important features in landscape ecology. Yet changes in the community structure of soil and sediment biota across aquaticterrestrial boundaries remain relatively unstudied. We investigated the community structure of the dominant fauna, namely nematodes, rotifers and tardigrades, across lake sedimentsoil transects in three basins in a species-poor, polar desert ecosystem (McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica). We also examined substrate (that is, soil and sediment) properties, including moisture, salinity, carbon, nitrogen and phosphate concentration, across these transects. Differences in faunal community structure and biochemical properties were typically explained by hydrologic basin and the sedimentsoil gradient, but not by transects within each basin. Bonney Basin contained the least organic carbon, chlorophyll a, nematodes and taxa, whereas there was little difference in many of these measures between Fryxell and Hoare Basins. Nematode (Scottnema lindsayae and Plectus sp.) and rotifer abundance varied along sedimentsoil transects. Scottnema lindsayae, the most abundant and widely distributed soil animal in this ecosystem, increased in abundance from sediments to soils, whereas Plectus sp. and rotifer abundance, and taxa richness (that is, nematodes, rotifers and/or tardigrades), decreased; Eudorylaimus sp. and tardigrade abundance did not differ significantly along the transects. Previous studies of soil biodiversity and faunal abundance in this ecosystem have revealed a positive association between these measures and biogeochemistry, if this holds true for lake sediments, our findings suggest sediments in Lake Bonney experience lower rates of nutrient cycling than either Lakes Fryxell or Hoare. Despite differences in faunal abundances along the sedimentsoil transects, taxa occurrence was surprisingly similar in soil and sediment, only S. lindsayae was restricted to soil or the lake shore. In contrast, in other ecosystems, soil community composition differs greatly from lake sediments, suggesting that the observed similarity in species occurrence in both soils and sediments may be unique to Antarctica. This finding might result from the extreme low diversity of this ecosystem, presumably limiting competition among fauna, and thus promoting broad ecological niches. Alternatively, environmental conditions in Antarctica may select for species with broad ecological niches.
40296295|Stream nitrogen (N) export and nitrate (NO3) concentration were measured at 14 forested watersheds (GEOMON network) in the Czech Republic between 1994 and 2005. In the last several decades, emissions of sulfur (S) and N compounds have decreased throughout much of Europe. In the Czech Republic, atmospheric deposition of S has decreased substantially since the beginning of 1990s, whereas N deposition remains largely unchanged at most sites. The mean dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) streamwater export ranged from 0.2 to 12.2 kg ha y at the GEOMON sites. Despite decades of elevated N deposition, 44-98% of DIN inputs to these watersheds were retained or denitrified, and many watersheds showed seasonal variation in nitrate concentrations. Dissolved organic N export was quantified in 1 year only and ranged from 0.05 to 3.5 kg ha y. Spatial variability in DIN export among watersheds was best explained by spatial variability in average acidic deposition, particularly S deposition (R = 0.81, P < 0.001); DIN input and forest floor carbonmitrogen (C/N) also provided significant explanatory power. DIN export was strongly influenced by the forest floor C/N ratio and depth of the forest floor soils (R = 0.72, P < 0.001). The only variable that predicted variations in forest floor C/N (R = 0.32, P < 0.05) among watersheds was S deposition. Forest floor depth was also related to deposition variables, with S deposition providing the most explanatory power (R = 0.50, P < 0.01). Variation in forest floor depth was also associated with climatic factors (precipitation and temperature). Temporal variability in DIN export was primarily associated with changes in acidic deposition over time; S deposition explained 41% of variability in DIN exports among all watersheds and years. Extensive acidification of forested watersheds was associated with the extraordinarily high S inputs to much of the Czech Republic during earlier decades. We hypothesize that recovery from acidification has led to improved tree health as well as enhanced microbial activity in the forest floor. As these watersheds move into a new regime with dramatically lower sulfur inputs, we expect continued declines in nitrate output.
40603649|Arctic treeline positions are of fundamental importance to the function of high latitude landscapes, as regulators of surface energy exchange and carbon cycling. Most studies aimed at explaining current and predicting future treeline positions have examined growth trends in mature treeline trees, but treeline advance requires seed production, germination, seedling establishment, and recruitment of new trees beyond the treeline and these processes may not be well correlated with growth of mature trees. Tussock tundra is a widespread, microtopographically complex vegetation type, covering vast areas of northern Alaska and Siberia. We examined a site where the white spruce (Picea glauca) treeline has recently advanced into tussock tundra and asked if white spruce seedlings (~36-cm tall) occurred in tussocks, intertussocks, and frost boils disproportionate to the abundance of these habitats in the treeline ecotone. We found that seedlings disproportionately occurred in tussocks and frost boils. Seedlings found in tussocks and frost boils also showed greater branch growth than those in inter-tussocks. Tussocks and frost boils had higher soil temperatures than inter-tussocks. Tussocks had higher N, P, and K availability, whereas frost boils had greater secondary and micronutrient availability. The disproportionate occurrence of seedlings in tussocks and frost boils can likely be explained by the combination of warmer soils and greater nutrient availability. It is also possible that low competition for primary nutrients contributes to the success of seedlings in frost boils. Results of the study highlight the importance of biotic and abiotic facilitation as mediators of treeline advance in a changing Arctic.
25053826|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) plays an important role in transporting carbon and nitrogen from forest floor to mineral soils in temperate forest ecosystems. Thus, the retention of DOM via sorption or microbial assimilation is one of the critical steps for soil organic matter formation in mineral soils. The chemical properties of DOM are assumed to control these processes, yet we lack fundamental information that links litter quality, DOM chemistry, and DOM retention. Here, we studied whether differences in litter quality affect solution chemistry and whether changes in litter inputs affect DOM quality and removal in the field. The effects of litter quality on solution chemistry were evaluated using chemical fractionation methods for laboratory extracts and for soil water collected from a temperate coniferous forest where litter inputs had been altered. In a laboratory extraction, litter type (needle, wood, root) and the degree of decomposition strongly influenced solution chemistry. Root litter produced more than 10 times more water-extractable dissolved organic N (DON) than any other litter type, suggesting that root litter may be most responsible for DON production in this forest ecosystem. The chemical composition of the O-horizon leachate was similar under all field treatments (doubled needle, doubled wood, and normal litter inputs). O-horizon leachate most resembled laboratory extracts of well-decomposed litter (that is, a high proportion of hydrophobic acids), in spite of the significant amount of litter C added to the forest floor and a tendency toward higher mean DOM under doubled-Litter treatments. A lag in DOM production from added litter or microbial modification might have obscured chemical differences in DOM under the different treatments. Net DOM removal in this forest soil was strong; DOM concentration in the water deep in the mineral soil was always low regardless of concentrations in water that entered the mineral soil and of litter input manipulation. High net removal of DOM from O-horizon leachate, in spite of extremely low initial hydrophilic neutral content (labile DOM), coupled with the lack of influence by season or soil depth, suggests that DOM retention in the soil was mostly by abiotic sorption.
3658831|We examined the distribution of soil organic carbon (SOC) fractions and roots with depth to improve our understanding of belowground carbon dynamics in the shortgrass steppe of northern Colorado. Weaver and others (1935) found that the surface 15 cm of soil contained over 70% of the total roots found in a tallgrass prairie soil profile, while only accounting for 40% of the profile soil organic matter. We asked whether the relationship between roots and SOC that Weaver and others (1935) found in the tallgrass prairie was also found in the shortgrass steppe. Weaver and others (1935) suggested that the dissimilarity between belowground biomass and SOC with depth is the result of variability in decomposition rates. In an effort to determine whether patterns of SOC are the result of short-term plant input patterns or decomposition, we measured the
3658862|A theoretical framework and conceptual model for temporal stability of forest tree-species composition was developed based on a synthesis of existing studies. The model pertains primarily to time periods of several tree lifetimes (several hundred to a few thousand years) at the neighborhood and stand spatial scales (0.01-10 ha), although a few extensions to the landscape scale are also made. The cusp catastrophe was chosen to illustrate compositional dynamics at the stand level for jack pine, northern hardwood, and white pine forests in the Great Lakes Region of the United States and for tropical rainforests in the northern Amazon basin. The models feature a response surface (degree of dominance by late-successional species) that depends on two variables: type of neighborhood effects of the dominant tree species and severity of disturbances. Neighborhood effects are processes that affect the chance of a species replacing itself at the time of disturbance (they can be positive, neutral, or negative) and are of two types: overstory-undestory effects, such as the presence of advanced reproduction; and disturbance-activated effects, such as serotinous seed rain. Disturbance severity is the proportion of trees killed during a disturbance. Interactions between neighborhood effects and disturbance severity can lead to either punctuated stability (dramatic but infrequent change in composition, in those forests dominated by species with positive neighborhood effects) or succession (continuous change, in those forests dominated by species with neutral-negative neighborhood effects). We propose that neighborhood effects are a major organizing factor in forest dynamics that provide a link across spatial scales between individual trees and disturbance/patch dynamics at the stand and landscape scales.
23325689|Clearcutting is a common silvicultural practice in the deciduous forests of northern New England. Subsequent regrowth is usually rapid, largely due to regenerative capacities of successional plants, particularly pin cherry (Prunus pensylvanica L.). The forest cover of an experimental watershed (W2) in Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, NH was clearcut and then treated with herbicides for 3 years to prevent regrowth. This experimental treatment delayed plant growth and caused extensive nutrient losses from the watershed-ecosystem, thereby diminishing factors normally promoting revegetation. This article addresses the question of whether, or to what degree, resilience, defined here as the trajectory of recovery back to a prior state following a perturbation, was reduced by this treatment. Performance metrics for resilience were aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and biomass accumulation. Data collected over seven intervals for the first 31 years of regrowth show that a primary component of resiliencepin cherry densitywas reduced, and that ANPP and biomass accumulation were initially below normal compared with other clear-cut sites. After approximately a decade of regrowth, however, trajectories for both ANPP and biomass fell within the lower margins of variability measured in other regional examples.
23325681|Northern peatlands are recognized as globally important stores of terrestrial carbon (C), yet we have limited understanding of how global changes, including land use, affect C cycling processes in these ecosystems. Making use of a long-term (>50 year old) peatland land management experiment in the UK, we investigated, using a 13 CO 2 pulse chase approach, how managed burning and grazing influenced the short-term uptake and cycling of C through the plantsoil system. We found that burning affected the composition and growth stage of the plant community, by substantially reducing the abundance of mature ericoid dwarf-shrubs. Burning also affected the structure of the soil microbial community, measured using phospholipid fatty acid analysis, by reducing fungal biomass. There was no difference in net ecosystem exchange of CO 2 , but burning was associated with an increase in photosynthetic uptake of 13 CO 2 and increased transfer of 13 C to the soil microbial community relative to unburned areas. In contrast, grazing had no detectable effects on any measured C cycling process. Our study provides new insight into how changes in vegetation and soil microbial communities arising from managed burning affect peatland C cycling processes, by enhancing the uptake of photosynthetic C and the transfer of C belowground, whilst maintaining net ecosystem exchange of CO 2 at pre-burn levels.
41505912|Climate warming in The Arctic may lead to a shift from graminoid to shrub dominance, which may, in turn, alter the structure and function of the ecosystem through shrub influences on the abiotic and/or biotic controls over biogeochemical cycles of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N). In Arctic tundra, near Toolik Lake, Alaska, we quantified net N-mineralization rates under ambient and manipulated snow treatments at three different plant communities that varied in abundance of deciduous shrubs. Our objective was twofold: (1) to test whether the amount of snow that can accumulate around Arctic deciduous shrubs maintains winter soil temperatures high enough to stimulate microbial activity and increase soil N levels (effect of soil microclimate) and (2) to compare the relative effects of snow versus shrubs on N availability via effects on the main drivers of N-mineralization: SOM quality versus microclimate. Winter snow addition had a positive effect on summer, but not winter, N-mineralization rates. Soil organic matter quality had a nine times larger effect on N-mineralization than did soil microclimate in the summer season and only SOM quality had a detectable effect on N-mineralization in the winter. Here we conclude that on a short time scale, shrub interactions with snow may play a role in increasing plant available N, primarily through effects on the summer soil microenvironment. In addition, differences in SOM quality can drive larger differences in net N-mineralization than changes in soil microclimate of the magnitude of what we saw across our three sites.
3658734|We assessed the determinants and consequences of the expansion of Juniperus virginiana L. (red cedar) populations into central US grasslands using historical aerial photos and field measurements of forest extent, tree growth, fire-induced mortality, and responses in herbaceous species diversity and productivity. Photos from northeast Kansas dating back to 1956 indicate that native tallgrass prairie can be converted to closed-canopy red cedar forest in as little as 40 years (a 2.3% increase in forest cover per year). Mean tree density in 21 forested sites ranged from 130 to 3500 trees/ha, with most sites at more than 800 trees/ha. In younger stands, maximum growth rates of individual red cedar trees exceeded 20 cm/y in height. Land management practices were critical to the establishment and growth of red cedar forest. Grazing reduced the fuel loads by more than 30% in tallgrass prairie. Based on measurements of mortality for more than 1800 red cedar trees, fire-induced mortality in grazed areas averaged 31.6% versus more than 90% at ungrazed sites. When tallgrass prairie was converted to red cedar forest, herbaceous species diversity and productivity were drastically reduced, and most grassland species were virtually eliminated. Consequently, community structure shifted from dominance by herbaceous C
3658965|Arctic ecosystems are important in the context of global climate change because the most rapid rises in air temperature are expected at high northern latitudes during winter. The presence of extensive soil carbon reserves in the Arctic suggests that substantial feedbacks to CO
3658911| Tree growth (as diameter increment), litterfall production, and litter biomass were studied in two secondary tropical dry forests of the Yucatn Peninsula under four treatments of nutrient addition. The study's objective was to assess how variations in the nutrient supply affect aboveground net primary production and carbon (C) accumulation on the floor of two forests in different stages of regeneration. The study included an area of young forest (10 years old) with phosphorus (P)-poor soils and an area of old forest (around 60 years old) where soil P was comparatively less limiting. Four replicate plots (12  12 m) at each forest were either left intact (controls) or fertilized with nitrogen (N), P, or N plus P during 3 consecutive years. After 3 years of fertilization, relaxation of the constraints on nutrient limitation resulted in increased trunk growth rates at both the young and old forests. This effect was more pronounced with the addition of P or N plus P (trunk growth doubled with respect to controls), whereas N addition increased tree growth by 60% in comparison to trees in plots without nutrient supplements. In both forests, there were no significant differences in litterfall production among treatments during the first 2 years after fertilization. In the 3rd year of nutrient addition, litterfall production was significantly higher in plots fertilized with N plus P compared to control plots at both forest sites; however, changes in litterfall were not accompanied by litter accumulation in the floor of the two forests. The results of this study support the hypothesis that there is nutrient limitation during tropical dry forest regeneration. They further show that it may be maintained in the long term during secondary succession. 
3658894|Rainbow smelt (Osmerus mordax) is a recent invader to the lakes of the Hudson Bay drainage in northwestern Ontario, Canada. In some systems, the invasion has been linked to an increase in mercury (Hg) concentration in native predatory fish. This increase may be due to the fact that rainbow smelt are trophically elevated and thus accumulate more Hg than native forage fish species. To test this hypothesis, we compared the trophic positions and Hg concentrations of rainbow smelt and native forage fish in a series of smelt-invaded and reference lakes in northwestern Ontario. A comparison of forage fish
25622876|The effect of conversion from forest-to-pasture upon soil carbon stocks has been intensively discussed, but few studies focus on how this land-use change affects carbon (C) distribution across soil fractions in the Amazon basin. We investigated this in the 20 cm depth along a chronosequence of sites from native forest to three successively older pastures. We performed a physicochemical fractionation of bulk soil samples to better understand the mechanisms by which soil C is stabilized and evaluate the contribution of each C fraction to total soil C. Additionally, we used a two-pool model to estimate the mean residence time (MRT) for the slow and active pool C in each fraction. Soil C increased with conversion from forest-to-pasture in the particulate organic matter (>250 m), microaggregate (53-250 m), and d-clay (<2 m) fractions. The microaggregate comprised the highest soil C content after the conversion from forest-to-pasture. The C content of the d-silt fraction decreased with time since conversion to pasture. Forest-derived C remained in all fractions with the highest concentration in the finest fractions, with the largest proportion of forest-derived soil C associated with clay minerals. Results from this work indicate that microaggregate formation is sensitive to changes in management and might serve as an indicator for management-induced soil carbon changes, and the soil C changes in the fractions are dependent on soil texture.
25622866|Slowing or even cessation of litter decomposition with time is well-known, but there is insufficient understanding of the chemical changes that contribute to increasing recalcitrance. Samples from the Canadian Intersite Decomposition Experiment (CIDET) were used to determine 6-year chemical changes for all 11 litters from a site with rapid initial decomposition (Morgan Arboretum, MAR) and for three litters at three colder sites. Six-year mass remaining was 17-37% at MAR, with higher values at the colder sites. Atomic C/N ratios declined and phenolics and condensed tannins generally decreased to minimal values. However, for the three species compared across four sites, phenolics and tannins showed small increases for species with the lowest initial values and also tended to increase with increasing mass loss. For the foliar litters at MAR, there was an average increase in proportion of acid-unhydrolyzable residue (AUR) and decreases in proportions of acid-hydrolyzable (ACID) and extractable fractions, with final AUR/ (ACID + AUR) ratios within 0.55-0.66. Principal component analysis showed that foliar litters (and to a lesser extent wood) became more alike after 6 years, decomposition being associated with increase of Fe, Al, N, and AUR concentrations and decrease of K, Mg, tannins, phenolics, and non-polar and water-soluble fractions. However, litters were also affected by site soil chemistry, with some high 6-year accumulations of Ca, Mg, Fe, Al, Mn, and Mg at two sites. Increasing recalcitrance likely arises from increasing dominance of complex, less-soluble organic structures, collectively represented by AUR, together with increases in heavy elements such as Al and Fe, which also specifically bind and stabilize organic matter.
25470383|Dissolution of the Silurian-Devonian aquifer in the Lake Huron Basin has produced several karst formations in the bedrock (sinkholes), through which groundwater emerges onto the lake floor. During September 2003, we explored a recently discovered submerged sinkhole ecosystem (55 m  40 m  1 m) located at a depth of 93 m with a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) equipped with a conductivity-temperature-depth (CTD) system, an acoustic navigational system, a video camera, and a water sampling system. In addition to two morphotypes of benthic mats, a 1-2 m thick visibly cloudy near-bottom nepheloid-like layer (sinkhole plume) with a strong hydrogen sulfide odor prevailed just above the seepage area of clear water. Relative to lake water, water samples collected within the sinkhole plume were characterized by slightly higher (by 4C) temperatures, very high levels of chloride (up to 175 mg l) and conductivity (1,700 S cm), as well as extremely high concentrations of sulfate (1,400 mg l), phosphorus (3 mg l) and particulate organic matter (400 mg C l). Compared to background lake water, sinkhole plume water was characterized by approximately twofold lower C:N ratios and tenfold higher levels of dissolved organic carbon, bacterial biomass as well as heterotrophic bacterial production. Significant uptake of C-bicarbonate in dark incubations provided preliminary evidence for occurrence of chemosynthesis, possibly mediated by specialized Bacteria and Archae present in this submerged sinkhole ecosystem in the Laurentian Great Lakes.
3658703|Research over the last 100 years has demonstrated the importance of space for ecological processes. Given this importance, it may seem natural to start investigations into broad-scale ecological processes with a comprehensive, broad-scale spatial map. Here we argue that it may sometimes be possible to answer important questions about spatial processes using crude spatial information obtained when a comprehensive map is not available. To present our argument, we first develop a simple simulation model for a perennial plant reproducing and dying on a landscape with different arrangements of suitable and unsuitable sites. We then develop a simple, analytical approximation to predict the fraction of suitable sites that are occupied by the simulated plants. The analytical approximation summarizes the spatial map by using a single parameter that gives the probability that a site adjacent to a suitable site is suitable. Comparing the predictions of both approaches highlights three points: (a) The role of the spatial environment in ecological processes may play out at the local scale. Therefore, studying the local-scale processes may provide insights into landscape patterns. (b) The predictions from the analytical approximation fail noticeably when suitable sites are rare and are distributed randomly (rather than clumped) on the map. In these situations, patches of interconnected suitable sites are very small, and populations within small patches may go extinct via demographic stochasticity. This illustrates how analytical approximations can be used to identify cases when local-scale spatial processes are not sufficient to understand the ecological consequences of space. (c) For many natural systems, constructing the appropriate environmental map needed to study ecological processes is difficult or impossible. However, summary characteristics such as those employed by the analytical approximation may be estimated directly in nature. Therefore, even in the absence of an explicitly spatial broad-scale map, it may be possible to study spatial processes by understanding which local-scale characteristics of space are important.
23501506|Climate warming is expected to decrease snow cover in many northern temperate regions, potentially increasing the severity of soil freezing. Severe soil freezing can enhance nitrogen (N) losses, but it remains unclear which N pools contribute to these losses, how this may change seasonally and how freezing damage might interact with increased atmospheric N deposition. We added 15 N to grass-dominated old field plots treated with combinations of snow removal and N addition, then resampled the plots at the end of the winter and the next fall to assess N losses from the soil, litter, roots and shoots. In addition, we added 15 N to separate treated plots immediately after snowmelt and at peak biomass and sampled these plots after 1 week to assess the potential for interception of N deposition. Snow removal increased soil and root losses of the 15 N label over the winter, but it had no effect on 15 N losses from these pools over summer. N addition had no effect on 15 N losses from these pools over winter or summer, but N addition decreased the interception of 15 N added at snowmelt. Snow removal decreased plant biomass over summer and reduced the interception of 15 N, whereas N addition enhanced plant biomass and increased the interception of 15 N at this time. Our results confirm that severe soil freezing can both enhance soil and root N losses over winter and reduce the interception of N deposition over the growing season, although the latter can be counteracted by increased plant biomass in response to increased N.
23501438|Heathlands are considered biodiversity hotspots of high conservation interest. However, they are at risk of degradation and disappearance in most parts of Europe mainly due to land abandonment, degradation, and conversion to other land uses. Heathlands are semi-natural systems: their maintenance and survival depends on specific practices such as extensive grazing or burning. Traditionally they provide a wide range of goods and services to societies. In this study we used the ecosystem services (ES) framework to analyze the changes in the demand for and delivery of ES for the heathland landscapes of the Cantabrian Mountains (NW Spain), since the 1950s. Particularly, we analyzed how the social changes since the 1950s have determined changes in stakeholders' demand for provisioning, cultural and regulating services and how these changes have influenced the vegetation dynamics and conservation status of these systems. We identified a general shift from the provisioning of grazing facilities and local products for the local-regional market to the provisioning of conservation services to satisfy nationalinternational demand. For the present situation we found a clear mismatch between the conservation demand, management practices, and land-use forms. This mismatch threatens to lead to further landscape changes and loss of biodiversity. The results of our multi-scale and -services study can help to increase awareness of the value of currently obtainable benefits from heathlands among stakeholders and managers. The ES approach can improve understanding of the functioning of the socio-ecological heathland system, and inform the development of new management strategies for heathland protection.
25053891|It is evident when the resilience of a system has been exceeded and the system qualitatively changed. However, it is not clear how to measure resilience in a system prior to the demonstration that the capacity for resilient response has been exceeded. We argue that self-organizing human and natural systems are structured by a relatively small set of processes operating across scales in time and space. These structuring processes should generate a discontinuous distribution of structures and frequencies, where discontinuities mark the transition from one scale to another. Resilience is not driven by the identity of elements of a system, but rather by the functions those elements provide, and their distribution within and across scales. A self-organizing system that is resilient should maintain patterns of function within and across scales despite the turnover of specific elements (for example, species, cities). However, the loss of functions, or a decrease in functional representation at certain scales will decrease system resilience. It follows that some distributions of function should be more resilient than others. We propose that the determination of discontinuities, and the quantification of function both within and across scales, produce relative measures of resilience in ecological and other systems. We describe a set of methods to assess the relative resilience of a system based upon the determination of discontinuities and the quantification of the distribution of functions in relation to those discontinuities.
27823712|We review the current understandings of the frequency, spatial distributions, mechanisms, and ecological consequences of fire in riparian zones. Riparian zones are well known for influencing many ecological processes at local to landscape scales, and fire can have an important ecosystem-scale influence on them. Riparian zones differ from surrounding uplands in their biophysical templates, moisture regimes and disturbance regimes; as a consequence the characteristics and effects of fire are different than in adjacent uplands. Fire impacts on riparian zones vary proportionally with the severity and extent of burning in the catchment and are affected by stream size. Riparian zones can act as a buffer against fire and therefore as a refuge for fire-sensitive species. However, under some circumstances, such as dry pre-fire climatic conditions and the accumulation of dry fuel, riparian areas become corridors for fire movement. Fire incursion into riparian zones creates canopy gaps and drier conditions, which allow subsequent build up of dead wood and establishment of fire adapted species. In concert, this increases fuel loads and the probability of another fire. Secondary effects of riparian fire include altering nutrient fluxes and cycling, increasing sediment loads, and stimulating erosion. We conclude that riparian fires are potentially important in shaping ecological characteristics in many regions, but this is poorly quantified. A better understanding of riparian fire regimes is essential to assess the effects of fire in helping shape the complex ecological characteristics of riparian zones over the longer-term.
25470352|Although habitat fragmentation is one of the greatest threats to biodiversity worldwide, virtually no attention has been paid to the quantification of error in fragmentation statistics. Landscape pattern indices (LPIs), such as mean patch size and number of patches, are routinely used to quantify fragmentation and are often calculated using remotesensing imagery that has been classified into different land-cover classes. No classified map is ever completely correct, so we asked if different maps with similar misclassification rates could result in widely different errors in pattern indices. We simulated landscapes with varying proportions of habitat and clumpiness (autocorrelation) and then simulated classification errors on the same maps. We simulated higher misclassification at patch edges (as is often observed), and then used a smoothing algorithm routinely used on images to correct salt-and-pepper classification error. We determined how well classification errors (and smoothing) corresponded to errors seen in four pattern indices. Maps with low misclassification rates often yielded errors in LPIs of much larger magnitude and substantial variability. Although smoothing usually improved classification error, it sometimes increased LPI error and reversed the direction of error in LPIs introduced by misclassification. Our results show that classification error is not always a good predictor of errors in LPIs, and some types of image postprocessing (for example, smoothing) might result in the underestimation of habitat fragmentation. Furthermore, our results suggest that there is potential for large errors in nearly every landscape pattern analysis ever published, because virtually none quantify the errors in LPIs themselves.
40603420|Ecosystem-level nutrient dynamics during decomposition are often estimated from litter monocultures.If species effects are additive, we can statistically predict nutrient dynamics in multispecies systems from monoculture work, and potential consequences of species loss. However, if species effects are dependent on interactions with other litter species (that is, non-additive), predictions based on monoculture data will likely be inaccurate. We conducted a 3-year, full-factorial, mixed-litter decomposition study of four dominant tree species in a temperate forest and measured nitrogen and phosphorus dynamics to explore whether nutrient dynamics in mixtures were additive or non-additive. Following common approaches, we used litterfall data to predict nutrient dynamics at the ecosystem-level. In mixtures, we observed non-additive effects of litter mixing on nutrient dynamics: the presence of nutrient-rich species in mixture facilitated nutrient release, whereas nutrient-poor species facilitated nutrient retention. Fewer nutrients were released from mixtures containing high-quality litter, and more immobilized from mixtures containing low-quality litter, than predicted from monocultures, creating a difference in overall nutrient release between predicted and actual dynamics in litter mixtures.Nutrient release at the ecosystem-level was greatly overestimated when based on monocultures because the effect of species interactions on nutrient immobilization was not accounted for. Our data illustrate that the identity of species in mixtures is key to their role in non-additive interactions, with repercussions for mineral nutrient availability and storage. These results suggest that predictions of ecosystem-level nutrient dynamics using litter monoculture data likely do not accurately represent actual dynamics because the effects of litter species interactions are not incorporated.
3658833| We tested the hypothesis that plants adjust to nutrient availability by altering carbon allocation patterns and nutrient-use efficiency (NUE = net primary production [NPP] per unit nutrient uptake), but are constrained by a trade-off between NUE and light-use efficiency ( = NPP per unit intercepted light). NPP, NUE and  were measured in montane Metrosideros polymorpha forest across a
41505863|Pulses of aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) in response to discrete precipitation events are an integral feature of ecosystem functioning in arid and semi-arid lands. Yet, the usefulness of nonlinear, ecohydrological pulse response functions to predict regional-scale patterns of annual ANPP at decadal scales remains unclear. Here, we assessed how different pulse response (PR) models compete with simple linear statistical models to capture variability in yearly integrated values of Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI int ), a remotely sensed proxy of annual ANPP. We examined 24-year-long time series of NDVI int calculated from Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) NDVI for 350,000 km of tropical grasslands in northern Australia. Based on goodness-of-fit statistics, PR models clearly outperformed statistical models when parameters were optimized for each site but all models showed the same error magnitude when all sites were combined in ensemble simulations or when the models were evaluated outside the calibration period. PR models were less biased and their performance did not deteriorate in the driest areas compared to linear models. Increasing the complexity of PR models to provide a better representation of soil water balance and its feedback with plant growth did not improve model performance in ensemble simulations. When error magnitude, bias, and sensitivity to parameter uncertainty were all considered, we concluded that a low-dimensional PR model was the most robust to capture NDVT int variability. This study shows the potential of long time series of AVHRR NDVI to benchmark process-oriented models of interannual variability of NDVI int in water-controlled ecosystems. This opens new avenues to examine at the global scale and over several decades the causal relationships between climate and leaf dynamics in the grassland biome.
25470376|An integrated modeling approach is used to link land use to river discharge, and then to survival of larval walleye that hatch in northern Ohio streams draining into Lake Erie (USA). First, to link land use and river discharge, the parameters of a simple hydrologic model are statistically related to watershed landscape attributes, including forest cover. One such relationship allows estimation of the change in daily river discharge that could result from a reduction in basin-scale forest cover. Second, to represent the river discharge-larval survival link, we reexamine a dataset from Mion and others to propose a relationship between daily flow velocity, water temperature, and walleye larval survival. Together, these linked models provide estimates of the reduction in larval survival due to reduction in forest cover, along with the uncertainty of those estimates. For the Grand River watershed, decreasing forest cover from 45.2 to 30% is projected to reduce average larval survival by about 45%. In the adjacent Chagrin River, dropping cover from 62.5 to 30% reduces survival by almost 60%. The greater rate of reduction of survival in the Chagrin River as forest levels fall is explained by a relatively greater increase in storm flows for the Chagrin, due to more frequently saturated soils. Therefore, forest preservation in the Chagrin River watershed is projected to be more effective in preserving walleye larval tributary habitat.
40296390|Northern boreal forest reserves that display no signs of modern forest exploitation are often regarded as pristine and are frequently used as ecological reference areas for conservation and restoration. However, the long-term effects of human utilization of such forests are rarely investigated. Therefore, using both paleoecological and archaeological methods, we analyzed temporal and spatial gradients of long-term human impact in a large oldgrowth forest reserve in the far north of Sweden, comparing vegetational changes during the last millennium at three sites with different land use histories. Large parts of the forest displayed no visible signs of past human land use, and in an area with no recognized history of human land use the vegetation composition appears to have been relatively stable throughout the studied period. However, at two locations effects of previous land use could be distinguished extending at least four centuries back in time. Long-term, but low-intensity, human land use, including cultivation, reindeer herding and tree cutting, has clearly generated an open forest structure with altered species composition in the field layer at settlement sites and in the surrounding forest. Our analysis shows that past human land use created a persistent legacy that is still visible in the present forest ecosystem. This study highlights the necessity for ecologists to incorporate a historical approach to discern underlying factors that have caused vegetational changes, including past human activity. It also indicates that the intensity and spatial distribution of human land use within the landscape matrices of any forests should be assessed before using them as ecological references. The nomenclature of vascular plants follows Krok and Almquist (Svensk flora. Fanerogamer och ormbunksvaxter, 2001).
25470362|Our understanding of the dynamics of urban ecosystems can be enhanced by examining the multidimensional social characteristics of households. To this end, we investigated the relative significance of three social theories of household structure-population, lifestyle behavior, and social stratification-to the distribution of vegetation cover in Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Our ability to assess the relative significance of these theories depended on fine-scale social and biophysical data. We distinguished among vegetation in three areas hypothesized to be differentially linked to these social theories: riparian areas, private lands, and public rights-of-way (PROWs). Using a multimodel inferential approach, we found that variation of vegetation cover in riparian areas was not explained by any of the three theories and that lifestyle behavior was the best predictor of vegetation cover on private lands. Surprisingly, lifestyle behavior was also the best predictor of vegetation cover in PROWs. The inclusion of a quadratic term for housing age significantly improved the models. Based on these research results, we question the exclusive use of income and education as the standard variables to explain variations in vegetation cover in urban ecological systems. We further suggest that the management of urban vegetation can be improved by developing environmental marketing strategies that address the underlying household motivations for and participation in local land management.
40296297|Woody debris is a conspicuous feature of many ecosystems and can be a large pool of stored carbon and nutrients. In the California coastal prairie, yellow bush lupines (Lupinus arboreus) experience mass die-offs, producing large quantities of woody detritus. Live lupines are fed upon by the stemboring caterpillars of the ghost moth, Hepialus californicus, and outbreaks of ghost moths are one factor contributing to lupine die-offs. A common detritivore, the terrestrial isopod Porcellio scaber, frequently inhabits ghost moth tunnels in lupine wood. We used a litterbag experiment to test the hypothesis that H. californicus increases decomposition of woody lupine detritus by facilitating its use by P. scaber. Isopod access to wood was crossed with simulated ghost moth boring to measure the independent and interactive effects of these two arthropods on total mass loss, as well as on carbon, nitrogen, and lignin dynamics. Isopods initially colonized litterbags but were not more abundant on L. arboreus logs that had simulated ghost moth boring than on logs without boring. They were rare in litterbags collected at 12 months or later and had no effect on wood decomposition. Simulated ghost moth boring increased wood decomposition (P = 0.0021), from 50.5 to 55.1% mass loss after 3 years. This effect was likely due to increased surface area for microbial utilization of the wood. Lupine wood had an initial lignin content of 14.70  0.67%, but lignin did not appear to decompose during the 3 years of this study, and by the end of the experiment accounted for 32.6  1.12% of the remaining wood. Neither ghost moth boring nor isopod access affected lignin loss. Lupine wood from a die-off in 2002 was estimated to have contained three times more nitrogen per unit area than the yearly input of annual grass litter. The slow decomposition of lupine wood, however, restricts the rate at which nitrogen is released into the soil and results in the storage of carbon and nutrients in lupine wood for several years following such die-offs.
23501465|Riparian ecosystems in the 21st century are likely to play a critical role in determining the vulnerability of natural and human systems to climate change, and in influencing the capacity of these systems to adapt. Some authors have suggested that riparian ecosystems are particularly vulnerable to climate change impacts due to their high levels of exposure and sensitivity to climatic stimuli, and their history of degradation. Others have highlighted the probable resilience of riparian ecosystems to climate change as a result of their evolution under high levels of climatic and environmental variability. We synthesize current knowledge of the vulnerability of riparian ecosystems to climate change by assessing the potential exposure, sensitivity, and adaptive capacity of their key components and processes, as well as ecosystem functions, goods and services, to projected global climatic changes. We review key pathways for ecological and human adaptation for the maintenance, restoration and enhancement of riparian ecosystem functions, goods and services and present emerging principles for planned adaptation. Our synthesis suggests that, in the absence of adaptation, riparian ecosystems are likely to be highly vulnerable to climate change impacts. However, given the critical role of riparian ecosystem functions in landscapes, as well as the strong links between riparian ecosystems and human well-being, considerable means, motives and opportunities for strategically planned adaptation to climate change also exist. The need for planned adaptation of and for riparian ecosystems is likely to be strengthened as the importance of many riparian ecosystem functions, goods and services will grow under a changing climate. Consequently, riparian ecosystems are likely to become adaptation 'hotspots' as the century unfolds.
40928214|Anthropogenic nitrogen (N) loading has the potential to affect plant community structure and function, and the carbon dioxide (CO) sink of peatlands. Our aim is to study how vegetation changes, induced by nutrient input, affect the CO exchange of a nutrient-limited bog. We conducted 9- and 4-year fertilization experiments at Mer Bleue bog, where we applied N addition levels of 1.6, 3.2, and 6.4 g N m a, upon a background deposition of about 0.8 g N m a, with or without phosphorus and potassium (PK). Only the treatments 3.2 and 6.4 g N m a with PK significantly affected CO fluxes. These treatments shifted the Sphagnum moss and dwarf shrub community to taller dwarf shrub thickets without moss, and the CO responses depended on the phase of vegetation transition. Overall, compared to the large observed changes in the vegetation, the changes in CO fluxes were small. Following Sphagnum loss after 5 years, maximum ecosystem photosynthesis (Pg max ) and net CO exchange (NEE max ) were lowered (19 and 46%, respectively) in the highest NPK treatment. In the following years, while shrub height increased, the vascular foliar biomass did not fully compensate for the loss of moss biomass; yet, by year 8 there were no significant differences in Pg max and NEE max between the nutrient and the control treatments. At the same time, an increase (24-32%) in ecosystem respiration (ER) became evident. Trends in the N-only experiment resembled those in the older NPK experiment by the fourth year. The increasing ER with increasing vascular plant and decreasing Sphagnum moss biomass across the experimental plots suggest that high N deposition may lessen the CO sink of a bog.
40603645|Spatial heterogeneity influences ecosystem structure and function across multiple habitat scales. Although primary production and respiration are fundamental to energy cycling in aquatic ecosystems, we know relatively little about how habitat scale influences metabolism. In this study, we adopted a multi-scale habitat approach to evaluate primary production and respiration in a coastal Great Lakes watershed that is experiencing pressure from past, present, and anticipated future human activities. We divided the watershed into five macrohabitats (stream, river, wetland, drowned-river mouth lake, and Great Lake), two mesohabitats (benthic and water column), and four microhabitats (periphytic substrates: sand/sediment, rock, wood, and plant) for evaluation of spatial patterns and synchrony in metabolism. Factors that influenced patterns of metabolism were scale dependent. Algal biomass strongly influenced spatial patterns in metabolism at the meso-and microhabitat scales; greater algal biomass translated to higher areal-specific and lower chlorophyll-specific metabolism at benthic mesohabitat and sand/sediment and rock microhabitats. Benthic metabolism overwhelmed water column metabolism, irrespective of location or time of year. Watershed position was important at the macrohabitat scale, with greater overall metabolism in macrohabitats located lower in the watershed. Average synchrony in metabolism rates was greatest at the macrohabitat scale, suggesting metabolic patterns that are evident at finer scales may become integrated at coarser scales. Our results (1) show that spatial and temporal patterns in metabolism are shaped by factors that are dependent upon habitat scale; (2) highlight the importance of benthic productivity across habitat and season; and (3) suggest that hydrologie connectivity strongly influences ecosystem processes, although physical factors can affect these responses as evidenced by the low levels of synchrony between Lake Michigan and the other macrohabitats.
40296350|Understanding of ecological differences among urban land covers can guide the sustainable management of urbanized landscapes for conservation of ecosystem services. The objective of our study was to compare ecosystem properties at the abovegroundbelowground interface of three land-cover types commonly found in residential land-scapes: lawns, bark mulch, and gravel mulch. Using unmowed vegetation as a reference land cover, we measured surface soil variables (to 5 cm depth), CO fluxes, and ground temperatures in experimental field plots within 3 years after their creation. Each land cover had a distinctive set of ecosystem properties. Mulched plots had significantly warmer soil and surface temperatures, wetter soils and faster surface litter decomposition than vegetated plots. Variables associated with soil C and earthworm numbers were consistently lowest in gravel-covered soils, whereas bark mulch plots had highest earthworm abundances, lowest soil bulk density, and temporally variable soil organic matter dynamics. Compared to unmowed plots, lawns had higher soil carbon, CO fluxes, and temperatures but lower earthworm abundances especially during 2005 drought conditions. We conclude that ecosystem properties of the land covers were influenced by the composition, density, and arrangement of materials comprising their aboveground habitat structures. We discuss our results within an ecosystem services framework and suggest that interpretations of our findings depend on in situ urban environmental contexts and landscape management objectives. Future studies of urban land covers, their ecosystem properties and associated ecosystem services are needed to help provide a scientific basis for sustainable urban landscape management.
25053814|Severe, stand-replacing fires affect large areas of northern temperate and boreal forests, potentially modifying ecosystem function for decades after their occurrence. Because these fires occur over large extents, and in areas where plant production is limited by nitrogen (N) availability, the effect of fire on N cycling may be important for long-term ecosystem productivity. In this article, we review what is known about postfire N cycling in northern temperate and boreal forests experiencing stand-replacing fires. We then build upon existing literature to identify the most important mechanisms that control postfire N availability in systems experiencing severe, stand-replacing fires compared with fires of lower severity. These mechanisms include changes in abiotic conditions caused by the opening of the canopy (for example, decreased LAI, increased solar radiation), changes in ground layer quantity and quality (for example, nutrient release, permafrost levels), and postfire plant and microbial adaptations affecting N fixation and N uptake (for example, serotiny, germination cues). Based on the available literature, these mechanisms appear to affect N inputs, internal N cycling, and N outputs in various ways, indicating that severe fire systems are variable across time and space as a result of complex interactions between postfire abiotic and biotic factors. Future experimental work should be focused on understanding these mechanisms and their variability across the landscape.
23501442|Efforts toward systematic conservation planning for freshwaters have progressed less than similar efforts in terrestrial and marine environments. Although there are important differences, many of the tools that have been used in terrestrial and marine systems can also be used for freshwater conservation planning. In this paper, we used return on investment (ROI) analysis to identify optimal riparian land conservation portfolios under different objectives. Our overarching research question is: how do different strategies for evaluating ROI objectives influence the resulting conservation portfolio and the outcome of interest, lake water quality? We examined agricultural riparian land investments to improve water quality in 55 inland lakes in southwestern Michigan. We simulated investments and compared the ROIs for the following strategies: (1) economic; (2) ecological; and (3) environmental policy. Furthermore, as a reference point, we also compared the resulting three conservation portfolios to that derived by simulating riparian land enrollment under the Conservation Reserve Program. We found that (1) investments in freshwater resources through the conservation of riparian land were more effective than the conservation of randomly selected parcels of similar land area in the catchment; (2) the costs and benefits of riparian land conservation varied considerably among lakes; (3) the choice of investment objectives, and therefore ROI strategies, resulted in very different conservation portfolios; (4) the simulated enrollment process of the Conservation Reserve Program fared poorly in terms of improving lake water quality as compared to the three strategies.
25470314|Fire, which is the dominant disturbance in the boreal forest, creates substantial heterogeneity in soil burn severity at patch and landscape scales. We present results from five field experiments in Yukon Territory, Canada, and Alaska, USA that document the effects of soil burn severity on the germination and establishment of four common boreal trees: Picea glauca, Picea mariana, Pinus contorta subsp. latifolia, and Populus tremuloides. Burn severity had strong positive effects on seed germination and net seedling establishment after 3 years. Growth of transplanted seedlings was also significantly higher on severely burned soils. Our data and a synthesis of the literature indicated a consistent, steep decline in conifer establishment on organic soils at depths greater than 2.5 cm. A meta-analysis of seedling responses found no difference in the magnitude of severity effects on germination versus net establishment. There were, however, significant differences in establishment but not germination responses among deciduous trees, spruce, and pine, suggesting that small-seeded species experience greater mortality on lightly burned, organic soils than large-seeded species. Together, our analyses indicate that variations in burn severity can influence multiple aspects of forest stand structure, by affecting the density and composition of tree seedlings that establish after fire. These effects are predicted to be most important in moderately-drained forest stands, where a high potential variability in soil burn severity is coupled with strong severity effects on tree recruitment.
43677537|Long-term (10 years) growth responses of residual trees to prescribed fire and thinning were evaluated using standard dendrochronological protocols to understand the broader effects of the treatments on mixed-oak forest ecosystems in southern Ohio. Analysis of 696 increment cores (348 trees > 25 cm DBH; five species) from 80 0.1 ha permanent plots distributed evenly across four treatments (control, thin, thin + burn, burn) indicated substantial increase in tree basal area increment (BAI) following the treatment. Post-treatment mean BAI of trees from the three active treatments ranged from 20.52 to 23.55 cm y compared with pre-treatment values of 16.86-17.07 cm y. BAI rates (averaging 15.13 and 16.33 cm y, respectively, for pre- and post-treatments) in the control plots did not change much over time. Mechanical treatments were more effective than prescribed fire at enhancing BAI of trees. However, basal area growth depended to some degree on the severity of prescribed fire. Analysis of percent BAI change revealed an interesting temporal trend with moderate to major growth releases during the first 5-year post-treatment period, and a slight attenuation thereafter, suggesting the need for periodic application of treatments to sustain growth over a longer timescale. Growth responses varied greatly among species, with yellow-poplar and hickories exhibiting the highest and lowest posttreatment BAI rates of 31.11 and 15.71 cm y, respectively. Given their variable growth responses, integrating residual trees into current monitoring programs may help in elucidating the consequences of prescribed fire and thinning on forest dynamics and development.
3658821|It has been hypothesized that the high diversity of giant kelp forests is due primarily to the provision of energy and habitat by the giant kelp (Macrocystis pyrifera). In this article, I use a 19-year-long kelp forest-monitoring data set from the Channel Islands National Park (a) to identify associations between subtidal species and forested or deforested habitats, (b) to generate an idealized food web for Southern California giant kelp forests in order to identify the primary conduits of energy flow through the system, and (c) to determine changes in the diversity and complexity of this food web due to localized giant kelp deforestation. A total of 275 common species were observed in the park between 1982 and 2000, of which 36% occurred significantly more often in kelp-forested areas than in deforested areas (that is, sea urchin barrens); 25 species were found exclusively in forested areas. Most of these associations were clearly identified as trophic and/or structural associations with giant kelp itself. The producer level of the food web was diverse, although giant kelp apparently represents the greatest single source of fixed carbon through either direct grazing or the production of phytodetritus. Primary, secondary and tertiary consumer levels were also represented by numerous species, and generalist consumers were common. With deforestation, the source of primary production shifts from primarily kelps to ephemeral microalgae, macroalgae, and phytoplankton. These results support the reliance of giant kelp forest food-web structure and diversity on the presence of the forest itself.
3658873|A detailed fixed nitrogen (N) mass balance was constructed for the Central Arizona-Phoenix (CAP) ecosystem. Input of fixed N input to the ecosystem was
3658908|Fluxes of dissolved organic matter (DOM) are an important vector for the movement of carbon (C) and nutrients both within and between ecosystems. However, although DOM fluxes from throughfall and through litterfall can be large, little is known about the fate of DOM leached from plant canopies, or from the litter layer into the soil horizon. In this study, our objectives were to determine the importance of plant-litter leachate as a vehicle for DOM movement, and to track DOM decomposition [including dissolve organic carbon (DOC) and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) fractions], as well as DOM chemical and isotopic dynamics, during a long-term laboratory incubation experiment using fresh leaves and litter from several ecosystem types. The water-extractable fraction of organic C was high for all five plant species, as was the biodegradable fraction; in most cases, more than 70% of the initial DOM was decomposed in the first 10 days of the experiment. The chemical composition of the DOM changed as decomposition proceeded, with humic (hydrophobic) fractions becoming relatively more abundant than nonhumic (hydrophilic) fractions over time. However, in spite of proportional changes in humic and nonhumic fractions over time, our data suggest that both fractions are readily decomposed in the absence of physicochemical reactions with soil surfaces. Our data also showed no changes in the 
40296417|Human-mediated disturbances such as fishing, habitat modification, and pollution have resulted in significant shifts in species composition and abundance in marine ecosystems which translate into degradation of food-web structure. Here, we used a comparative ecological modelling approach and data from two food webs (North-Central Adriatic and South Catalan Sea) and two time periods (mid-late 1970s and 1990s) in the Mediterranean Sea to evaluate how changes in species composition and biomass have affected food-web properties and the extent of ecosystem degradation. We assembled species lists and ecological information for both regions and time periods into stochastic structural and mass-balance food-web models, and compared the outcomes of 22 food-web properties. Our results show strong similarities in structural food-web properties between the North-Central Adriatic and South Catalan Seas indicating similar ecosystem structure and levels of ecological degradation between regions and time periods. In contrast, a comparison with other published marine food webs (Caribbean, Benguela, and US continental shelf) suggested that Mediterranean webs are in an advanced state of ecological degradation. This was reflected by lower trophic height, linkage density, connectance, omnivory, species involved in looping, trophic chain length and fraction of biomass at higher trophic levels, as well as higher generality and fraction of biomass at lower trophic levels. An analysis of robustness to simulated species extinction revealed lower robustness to species removals in Mediterranean webs and corroborated their advanced state of degradation. Importantly, the two modelling approaches used delivered comparable results suggesting that they both capture fundamental information about how food webs are structured.
27823756|Lack of tree regeneration and persistency of species-poor shrublands represent a growing problem across Mediterranean evergreen oak forests. What constrains forest regeneration is poorly understood, and restoration attempts have been largely unsuccessful. We assessed the contribution of four different mechanisms of tree recruitment limitation (that is, source, dispersal, germination, and establishment) in a cork oak (Quercus suber) system in southern Portugal. Using a combination of field studies and experiments, we quantified seed production, seed removal and dispersal, seed survival and germination, seedling establishment and survival, as well as cork oak natural regeneration for the three dominant vegetation types in this system (Cistus ladanifer shrubland, oak forest, and oak savanna). We found that all four forms of cork oak recruitment limitation were significantly more severe in shrublands than in oak forests and savannas, so that oak seedling recruitment in shrubland was impeded in multiple ways. Our results explain why transitions from shrublands to oak savannas and forests are extremely difficult, and that the release from arrested succession in this system requires the simultaneous relief of multiple constraints on recruitment limitation in the early life history of oaks. These results have important implications for the restoration and conservation of Mediterranean oak systems.
40603510|A removal experiment was used to examine the restoration potential of a lowland wet forest in Hawaii, a remnant forest type that has been heavily invaded by non-native species and in which there is very little native species regeneration. All non-native woody and herbaceous biomass (approximately 45% of basal area) was removed in four 100-m removal plots; plots were followed for a three-year period. Removal plots had a lower leaf area index, higher air temperatures, higher afternoon soil temperatures, and lower relative humidity than control plots. Removal plots had 40% less litterfall mass and similarly reduced nutrient inputs. Leaf litter decomposition rates were much slower in the removal plots, due more to site quality than litter quality. However, soil N and  were not different between treatments. Native species had a distinct suite of leaf traits (greater integrated water use efficiency, lower mass-based leaf nutrient concentrations, and lower specific leaf area). Despite major environmental changes in the removal plots, native species' diameter growth and litterfall productivity were not significantly greater after removal, testifying to the slow response capabilities of native Hawaiian trees. Our results are consistent with the expectation that native species are conservative in regards to resource use and may not strongly respond to canopy removal, at least at the adult stage. Management strategies will have to incorporate the slow growth rate of Hawaiian species and the fact that weeding may be required to suppress expansion and nutrient inputs of introduced species.
25470321|The link between species and ecosystem functioning is a central issue in ecology. In natural plant communities, the dominant species determine most of the productivity-related processes but what is the function of minor species? A recent hypothesis suggests that after disturbance, minor species facilitate the recruitment and abundance of dominants during re-colonization, thus indirectly determining ecosystem function. We tested this hypothesis using a long-term data-set of annual plant communities in a semiarid shrubland by comparing plant density and biomass from plots in which all vegetation had been removed; plots from which only the dominant (the annual grass Stipa capensis) had been removed, and control plots. In the absence of vegetation, the dominant failed to re-establish during the following growing season. After being removed the dominant re-established similarly to the controls. An ant exclosure experiment excluded the possibility that this was due to seed predation. In an experiment with individual dispersal units of S. capensis, we demonstrated the mechanism by which minor species can control the dominant's abundance. Minor species indirectly govern ecosystem processes by providing structures facilitating seed soil penetration and thus recruitment of the dominant.
41507792|Nutrient cycles in both terrestrial and many fresh-water habitats are fueled by terrestrial detritus. However, direct comparisons of decomposition processes in these environments are scarce. Aiming at shedding light on similarities and differences in these processes in different habitats, we studied decomposition of low-quality versus high-quality detritus through the action of shredders versus grazers in aquatic versus terrestrial microcosms under controlled climatic conditions. Decomposition processes were most strongly affected by whether they took place in the terrestrial or the aquatic environment: Leaching resulted in a rapid mass loss of detritus in the aquatic environment, and detritus traits became less pronounced over time. Thus, breakdown was mediated through dissolved organic matter (DOM) in water but through particulate organic matter (POM) on land. Litter mass loss and the promoting effects of detritivores on mass loss also depended on the environment, but shredders always had a greater effect than grazers. Both litter and detritivore diversity were overall of little relevance for litter mass loss, but more so in the aquatic than the terrestrial environment. By contrast, the influence of detritivores on microbes was stronger in water than on land, but effects depended on the litter type. The type of both litter and detritivores, however, was less significant in the aquatic than in the terrestrial environment, possibly due to leaching and abiotic processing of litter during early decomposition, resulting in diminishing differences between litter types. We conclude that the habitat type shapes the dynamics of leaf litter decomposition. Heavy leaching (in the aquatic environment) shortens initial decomposition phases and dislocates the degradation of easily accessible compounds in the form of DOM from the leaves into the water column. Consequently, initial interspecific differences in litter quality diminish, and both functional differences in, and diversity of, both litter and detritivores become less important than in the terrestrial environment.
3659045|To date, most research that has examined the effect of elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration ([ CO
25053834|Although tropical wet forests play an important role in the global carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycles, little is known about the origin, composition, and fate of dissolved organic C (DOC) and N (DON) in these ecosystems. We quantified and characterized fluxes of DOC, DON, and dissolved inorganic N (DIN) in throughfall, litter leachate, and soil solution of an old-growth tropical wet forest to assess their contribution to C stabilization (DOC) and to N export (DON and DIN) from this ecosystem. We found that the forest canopy was a major source of DOC (232 kg C
3658972|Cross-scale resilience theory predicts that the combination of functional diversity within scales and functional redundancy across scales is an important attribute of ecosystems because it helps these systems resist minor ecological disruptions and regenerate after major disturbances such as hurricanes and fire. Using the vertebrate fauna of south Florida, we quantified how the loss of native species and invasion by nonnatives may alter functional group richness within and across scales. We found that despite large changes in species composition due to potential extinctions and successful invasions by nonnative species, functional group richness will not change significantly within scales, there will not be any significant loss of overall redundancy of ecology function across scales, and overall body mass pattern will not undergo substantial change. However, the types of functions performed will change, and this change may have profound effects on not only the Everglades ecosystem but on the entire landscape of south Florida.
3658892| Hurricanes affect ecosystem processes by altering resource availability and heterogeneity, but the spatial and temporal signatures of these events on biomass and nutrient cycling processes are not well understood. We examined mass and nutrient inputs of hurricane-derived litter in six tropical forests spanning three life zones in northeastern Puerto Rico after the passage of Hurricane Georges. We then followed the decomposition of forest floor mass and nutrient dynamics over 1 year in the three forests that experienced the greatest litter inputs (moist, tabonuco, and palm forests) to assess the length of time for which litter inputs influence regeneration and nutrient cycling processes. The 36-h disturbance event had litterfall rates that ranged from 0.55 to 0.93 times annual rates among the six forests; forest floor ranged between 1.2 and 2.5 times prehurricane standing stocks. The upper-elevation forest sites had the lowest nonhurricane litterfall rates and experienced the lowest hurricane litterfall and the smallest relative increase in forest floor standing stocks. In the three intensively studied forests, the forest floor returned to prehurricane values very quickly, within 2-10 months. The palm forest had the slowest rate of decay
27823765|Seagrasses are threatened by human activity in many locations around the world. Their decline is often characterized by sudden ecosystem collapse from a vegetated to a bare state. In the 1930s, such a dramatic event happened in the Dutch Wadden Sea. Before the shift, large seagrass beds (Zostera marina) were present in this area. After the construction of a large dam and an incidence of the "wasting disease" in the early 1930s, these meadows became virtually extinct and never recovered despite restoration attempts. We investigated whether this shift could be explained as a critical transition between alternative stable states, and whether the lack of recovery could be due to the high resilience of the new turbid state. We analyzed the depth distribution of the historical meadows, a long-term dataset of key factors determining turbidity and a minimal model based on these data. Results demonstrate that recovery was impossible because turbidity related to suspended sediment was too high, probably because turbidity was no longer reduced by seagrass itself. Model simulations on the positive feedback suggest indeed the robust occurrence of alternative stable states and a high resilience of the current turbid state. As positive feedbacks are common in seagrasses, our findings may explain both the worldwide observed collapses and the low success rate of restoration attempts of seagrass habitats. Therefore, appreciation of ecosystem resilience may be crucial in seagrass ecosystem management.
25470333|Sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.)-dominated northern hardwood forests in the upper Lakes States region appear to be particularly sensitive to chronic atmospheric NO deposition. Experimental NO deposition (3 g NO N m y) has significantly reduced soil respiration and increased the export of DOC/DON and NO across the region. Here, we evaluate the possibility that diminished microbial activity in mineral soil was responsible for these ecosystem-level responses to NO deposition. To test this alternative, we measured microbial biomass, respiration, and N transformations in the mineral soil of four northern hardwood stands that have received 9 years of experimental NO deposition. Microbial biomass, microbial respiration, and daily rates of gross and net N transformations were not changed by NO deposition. We also observed no effect of NO deposition on annual rates of net N mineralization. However, NO deposition significantly increased (27%) annual net nitrification, a response that resulted from rapid microbial NO assimilation, the subsequent turnover of NH, and increased substrate availability for this process. Nonetheless, greater rates of net nitrification were insufficient to produce the 10-fold observed increase in NO export, suggesting that much of the exported NO resulted directly from the NO deposition treatment. Results suggest that declines in soil respiration and increases in DOC/DON export cannot be attributed to NO-induced physiological changes in mineral soil microbial activity. Given the lack of response we have observed in mineral soil, our results point to the potential importance of microbial communities in forest floor, including both saprotrophs and mycorrhizae, in mediating ecosystem-level responses to chronic NO deposition in Lake States northern hardwood forests.
3658583|Landscape ecology is based on the premise that there are strong links between ecological pattern and ecological function and process. Ecological systems are spatially heterogeneous, exhibiting considerable complexity and variability in time and space. This variability is typically represented by categorical maps or by a collection of samples taken at specific spatial locations (point data). Categorical maps quantize variability by identifying patches that are relatively homogeneous and that exhibit a relatively abrupt transition to adjacent areas. Alternatively, point-data analysis (geostatistics) assumes that the system property is spatially continuous, making fewer assumptions about the nature of spatial structure. Each data model provides capabilities that the other does not, and they should be considered complementary. Although the concept of patches is intuitive and consistent with much of ecological theory, point-data analysis can answer two of the most critical questions in spatial pattern analysis: what is the appropriate scale to conduct the analysis, and what is the nature of the spatial structure? I review the techniques to evaluate categorical maps and spatial point data, and make observations about the interpretation of spatial pattern indices and the appropriate application of the techniques. Pattern analysis techniques are most useful when applied and interpreted in the context of the organism(s) and ecological processes of interest, and at appropriate scales, although some may be useful as coarse-filter indicators of ecosystem function. I suggest several important needs for future research, including continued investigation of scaling issues, development of indices that measure specific components of spatial pattern, and efforts to make point-data analysis more compatible with ecological theory.
23328066|Symbiotic N 2 -fixing tree species can accelerate ecosystem N dynamics through decomposition feedbacks via both direct and indirect pathways. Direct pathways include the production of readily decomposed leaf litter and increased N supply to decomposers, whereas indirect pathways include increased tissue N and altered detrital dynamics of non-fixing vegetation. To evaluate the relative importance of direct and indirect pathways, we compared 3-year decomposition and N dynamics of N 2 -fixing red alder leaf litter (2.34% N) to both low-N (0.68% N) and high-N (1.21% N) litter of non-fixing Douglas-fir, and decomposed each litter source in four forests dominated by either red alder or Douglas-fir. We also used experimental N fertilization of decomposition plots to assess elevated N availability as a potential mechanism of N 2 -fixer effects on litter mass loss and N dynamics. Direct effects of N 2 -fixing red alder on decomposition occurred primarily as faster N release from red alder than Douglas-fir litter. Direct increases in N supply to decomposers via experimental N fertilization did not stimulate decomposition of either species litter. Fixed N indirectly influenced detrital dynamics by increasing Douglas-fir tissue and litter N concentrations, which accelerated litter N release without accelerating mass loss. By increasing soil N, tissue N, and the rate of N release from litter of non-fixers, we conclude that N 2 -fixing vegetation can indirectly foster plantsoil feedbacks that contribute to the persistence of elevated N availability in terrestrial ecosystems.
25053860|Ecosystem respiration (ER) is an important but poorly understood part of the carbon (C) budget of peatlands and is controlled primarily by the thermal and hydrologic regimes. To establish the relative importance of these two controls for a large ombrotrophic bog near Ottawa, Canada, we analyzed ER from measurements of nighttime net ecosystem exchange of carbon dioxide
3658764|Cycling of nitrogen (N) is commonly studied in aquatic ecosystems; however, most studies examine only parts of the N cycle, such as budgets, N uptake lengths, or oxidative transformations. To integrate conceptually and experimentally several aspects of the N cycle in a stream, we combined a N-cycling model and a tracer addition of nitrogen 15 (
27823733|Leaf area index (LAI) is a key parameter controlling plant productivity and biogeochemical fluxes between vegetation and the atmosphere. Tropical forests are thought to have comparably high LAIs; however, precise data are scarce and environmental controls of leaf area in tropical forests are not understood. We studied LAI and stand leaf biomass by optical and leaf mass-related approaches in five tropical montane forests along an elevational transect (1,0503,060 m a.s.l.) in South Ecuador, and conducted a meta-analysis of LAI and leaf biomass data from tropical montane forests around the globe. Study aims were (1) to assess the applicability of indirect and direct approaches of LAI determination in tropical montane forests, (2) to analyze elevation effects on leaf area, leaf mass, SLA, and leaf lifespan, and (3) to assess the possible consequences of leaf area change with elevation for montane forest productivity. Indirect optical methods of LAI determination appeared to be less reliable in the complex canopies than direct leaf mass-related approaches based on litter trapping and a thorough analysis of leaf lifespan. LAI decreased by 4060% between 1,000 and 3,000 m in the Ecuador transect and also in the pan-tropical data set. This decrease indicates that canopy carbon gain, that is, carbon source strength, decreases with elevation in tropical montane forests. Average SLA decreased from 88 to 61 cm2 g1 whereas leaf lifespan increased from 16 to 25 mo between 1,050 and 3,060 m in the Ecuador transect. In contrast, stand leaf biomass was much less influenced by elevation. We conclude that elevation has a large influence not only on the leaf traits of trees but also on the LAI of tropical montane forests with soil N (nitrogen) supply presumably being the main controlling factor.
41505950|In the boreal forest, fire, insects, and logging all affect spatial patterns in forest age and species composition. In turn, spatial legacies in age and composition can facilitate or constrain further disturbances and have important consequences for forest spatial structure and sustainability. However, the complex three-way interactions among fire, insects, and logging and their combined effects on forest spatial structure have seldom been investigated. We used a spatially explicit landscape simulation model to examine these interactions. Specifically, we investigated how the amount and the spatial scale of logging (cutblock size) in combination with succession, fire, and spruce budworm outbreaks affect area burned and area defoliated. Simulations included 30 replicates of 300 years for each of 19 different disturbance scenarios. More disturbances increased both the fragmentation and the proportion of coniferous species and imposed additional constraints on the extent of each disturbance. We also found that harvesting legacies affect fire and budworm differently due to differences in forest types consumed by each disturbance. Contrary to expectation, budworm defoliation did not affect area burned at the temporal scales studied and neither amount of logging nor cutblock size influenced defoliation extent. Logging increased fire size through conversion of more of the landscape to early seral, highly flammable forest types. Although logging increased the amount of budworm host species, spruce budworm caused mortality was reduced due to reductions in forest age. In general, we found that spatial legacies do not influence all disturbances equally and the duration of a spatial legacy is limited when multiple disturbances are present. Further information on post-disturbance succession is still needed to refine our understanding of long-term disturbance interactions.
3658786|The effects of changes in tropical land use on soil emissions of nitrous oxide ( N
43677498|Soil amendments can increase net primary productivity (NPP) and soil carbon (C) sequestration in grasslands, but the net greenhouse gas fluxes of amendments such as manure, compost, and inorganic fertilizers remain unclear. To evaluate opportunities for climate change mitigation through soil amendment applications, we designed a field-scale model that quantifies greenhouse gas emissions (CO, CH, and NO) from the production, application, and ecosystem response of soil amendments. Using this model, we developed a set of case studies for grazed annual grasslands in California. Sensitivity tests were performed to explore the impacts of model variables and management options. We conducted Monte Carlo simulations to provide estimates of the potential error associated with variables where literature data were sparse or spanned wide ranges. In the base case scenario, application of manure slurries led to net emissions of 14 Mg COe ha over a 3-year period. Inorganic N fertilizer resulted in lower greenhouse gas emissions than the manure (3 Mg COe ha), assuming equal rates of N addition and NPP response. In contrast, composted manure and plant waste led to large offsets that exceeded emissions, saving 23 Mg COe ha over 3 years. The diversion of both feedstock materials from traditional high-emission waste management practices was the largest source of the offsets; secondary benefits were also achieved, including increased plant productivity, soil C sequestration, and reduced need for commercial feeds. The greenhouse gas saving rates suggest that compost amendments could result in significant offsets to greenhouse gas emissions, amounting to over 28 MMg COe when scaled to 5% of California rangelands. We found that the model was highly sensitive to manure and landfill management factors and less dependent on C sequestration, NPP, and soil greenhouse gas effluxes. The Monte Carlo analyses indicated that compost application to grasslands is likely to lead to net greenhouse gas offsets across a broad range of potential environmental and management conditions. We conclude that applications of composted organic matter to grasslands can contribute to climate change mitigation while sustaining productive lands and reducing waste loads.
40603616|Current climate change and overfishing are affecting the productivity and structure of marine ecosystems. This situation is unprecedented for the marine biosphere and it is essential to understand the mechanisms and pathways by which ecosystems respond. We report that climate change and overfishing are likely to be responsible for a rapid restructuring of a highly productive marine ecosystem with effects throughout the plagos and the benthos. In the mid-1980s, climate change, consequent modifications in the North Sea plankton, and fishing, all reduced North Sea cod recruitment. In this region, production of many benthic species respond positively and immediately to temperature. Analysis of a long-term, spatially extensive biological (plankton and cod) and physical (sea surface temperature) dataset suggests that synchronous changes in cod numbers and sea temperature have established an extensive trophic cascade favoring lower trophic level groups over economic fisheries. A proliferation of jellyfish that we detect may signal the climax of these changes. This modified North Sea ecology may provide a clear indication of the synergistic consequences of coincident climate change and overfishing. The extent of the ecosystem restructuring that has occurred in the North Sea suggests we are unlikely to reverse current climate and human-induced effects through ecosystem resource management in the short term. Rather, we should understand and adapt to new ecological regimes. This implies that fisheries management policies will have to be fully integrated with the ecological consequences of climate change to prevent a similar collapse in an exploited marine ecosystem elsewhere.
40792956|Shallow soft-sediment systems are mostly dominated by species that, by strongly affecting sediment dynamics, modify their local environment. Such ecosystem engineering species can have either sediment-stabilizing or sediment-destabilizing effects on tidal flats. They interplay with abiotic forcing conditions (wind, tide, nutrient inputs) in driving the community structure and generating spatial heterogeneity, determining the composition of different communities of associated species, and thereby affecting the channelling of energy through different compartments in the food web. This suggests that, depending on local species composition, tidal flats may have conspicuously different geomorphology and biological functions under similar external conditions. Here we use a historical reconstruction of benthic production in the Wadden Sea to construct a framework for the relationships between human impacts, ecosystem engineering and sediment dynamics. We propose that increased sediment disturbances by human exploitation interfere with biological controls of sediment dynamics, and thereby have shifted the dominant compartments of both primary and secondary production in the Wadden Sea, transforming the intertidal from an internally regulated and spatially heterogeneous, to an externally regulated and spatially homogenous system. This framework contributes to the general understanding of the interaction between biological and environmental control of ecosystem functioning, and suggests a general framework for predicting effects of human impacts on soft-bottom ecosystems.
41505932|Since its inception, the ecosystem concept has been widely used in ecology and is increasingly finding application within other disciplines. In more recent times within ecology, however, it has been suggested the term is now obsolete. We argue that three problems lie at the heart of these criticisms, namely the physics-biology duality problem, the boundary problem and the abstraction problem. The physics-biology duality problem (how to grapple with systems that follow the laws of both physics and biology) is addressed by modern computer science techniques originating from simulation and software engineering. The boundary problem (how to find the limits of an ecosystem in the real world) is solved by a powerful assumption of Tansley, that the ecosystem is an ad hoc construct on the part of an observer for a particular purpose. The abstraction problem (can models of an ecosystem at different levels of detail produce the same outcomes) has no general solution, but can be improved upon by using scaling techniques and standards to facilitate model comparisons. We demonstrate that Tansley's (Ecology 16: 284-307, 1935) definition is still relevant to modern ecology almost as is. Tansley's ecosystem is a multi-disciplinary, recursive, scale-independent and observerdependent object. These properties closely match those of complex systems as defined in mathematics and computer sciences. From Tansley's definition, we propose a formal description of the concepts and relations linked to the ecosystem definition, as an ontology that can serve as a basis for future discussion, modelling and conceptual work.
41413963|The influence of land use on potential fates of nitrate (NO) in stream ecosystems, ranging from denitrification to storage in organic matter, has not been documented extensively. Here, we describe the Pacific Northwest component of Lotie Intersite Nitrogen experiment, phase II (LINXII) to examine how land-use setting influences fates of NO in streams. We used 24 h releases of a stable isotope tracer (NO-N) in nine streams flowing through forest, agricultural, and urban land uses to quantify NO uptake processes. NO uptake lengths varied two orders of magnitude (24-4247 m), with uptake rates (6.5-158.1 mg NON m day) and uptake velocities (0.1-2.3 mm min) falling within the ranges measured in other LINX II regions. Denitrification removed 0-7% of added tracer from our streams. In forest streams, 60.4 to 77.0% of the isotope tracer was exported downstream as NO, with 8.0 to 14.8% stored in wood biofilms, epilithon, fine benthic organic matter, and bryophytes. Agricultural and urban streams with streamside forest buffers displayed hydrologie export and organic matter storage of tracer similar to those measured in forest streams. In agricultural and urban streams with a partial or no riparian buffer, less than 1 to 75% of the tracer was exported downstream; much of the remainder was taken up and stored in autotrophic organic matter components with short N turnover times. Our findings suggest restoration and maintenance of riparian forests can help re-establish the natural range of NO uptake processes in human-altered streams.
3658891|The objective of this study was to compare the carbon (C) budgets of two similar-aged boreal black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP) forest communities: closed-canopy black spruce with feathermoss ground cover (BSFM) on moderately drained soils and open-canopy black spruce with Sphagnum ground cover (BSSP) on poorly drained soils. C content, soil surface carbon dioxide ( CO
43677541|The larch forests at the southern limit of the Siberian boreal forest in Central Asia have repeatedly experienced strong recent growth declines attributed to decreasing summer precipitation in the course of climate warming. Here, we present evidence from the southernmost Larix sibirica forests in eastern Kazakhstan that these declines are primarily caused by a decrease in effective moisture due to increasing summer temperatures, despite constant annual, and summer precipitation. Tree-ring chronologies (> 800 trees) showed a reduction by 50-80% in mean ring width and an increase in the frequency of missing rings since the 1970s. Climate-response analysis revealed a stronger (negative) effect of summer temperature (in particular of the previous year's June and July temperature) on radial growth than summer precipitation (positive effect). It is assumed that a rise in the atmospheric vapor pressure deficit, which typically increases with temperature, is negatively affecting tree water status and radial growth, either directly or indirectly through reduced soil moisture. Larch rejuvenation ceased in the 1950s, which is partly explained by increasing topsoil desiccation in a warmer climate and a high drought susceptibility of larch germination, as was demonstrated by a germination experiment with variable soil moisture levels. The lack of regeneration and the reduced annual stem increment suggest that sustainable forest management aiming at timber harvesting is no longer feasible in these southern boreal forests. Progressive climate warming is likely to cause a future northward shift of the southern limit of the boreal forest.
25053888|Soil microorganisms mediate many critical ecosystem processes. Little is known, however, about the factors that determine soil microbial community composition, and whether microbial community composition influences process rates. Here, we investigated whether aboveground plant diversity affects soil microbial community composition, and whether differences in microbial communities in turn affect ecosystem process rates. Using an experimental system at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, we found that plant diversity (plots contained 1, 3, 5, or > 25 plant species) had a significant effect on microbial community composition (as determined by phospholipid fatty acid analysis). The different microbial communities had significantly different respiration responses to 24 labile carbon compounds. We then tested whether these differences in microbial composition and catabolic capabilities were indicative of the ability of distinct microbial communities to decompose different types of litter in a fully factorial laboratory litter transplant experiment. Both microbial biomass and microbial community composition appeared to play a role in litter decomposition rates. Our work suggests, however, that the more important mechanism through which changes in plant diversity affect soil microbial communities and their carbon cycling activities may be through alterations in their abundance rather than their community composition.
41507787|The increase in the consumption of animal products is likely to put further pressure on the world's freshwater resources. This paper provides a comprehensive account of the water footprint of animal products, considering different production systems and feed composition per animal type and country. Nearly one-third of the total water footprint of agriculture in the world is related to the production of animal products. The water footprint of any animal product is larger than the water footprint of crop products with equivalent nutritional value. The average water footprint per calorie for beef is 20 times larger than for cereals and starchy roots. The water footprint per gram of protein for milk, eggs and chicken meat is 1.5 times larger than for pulses. The unfavorable feed conversion efficiency for animal products is largely responsible for the relatively large water footprint of animal products compared to the crop products. Animal products from industrial systems generally consume and pollute more ground- and surface-water resources than animal products from grazing or mixed systems. The rising global meat consumption and the intensification of animal production systems will put further pressure on the global freshwater resources in the coming decades. The study shows that from a freshwater perspective, animal products from grazing systems have a smaller blue and grey water footprint than products from industrial systems, and that it is more water-efficient to obtain calories, protein and fat through crop products than animal products.
3658883|Aquatic habitat change caused by flooding was quantified along the Fiume Tagliamento, a morphologically intact gravel-bed river ecosystem in northeast Italy. Five different geomorphic reaches (each around 1.5 km), ranging from near the headwaters at 800 m above sea level (a.s.l.) to near the mouth at 5 m a.s.l., were studied over a 1-year period. All floodplain water bodies in each reach were delineated in August 1999 using a differential global positioning system. Each reach was remapped twice (in December 1999 and August 2000) to investigate the impact of autumn and spring flood seasons on aquatic habitat composition and configuration. A high degree (nearly 62%) of aquatic habitat turnover was documented in a braided headwater floodplain. The degree of aquatic habitat turnover decreased with decreasing elevation to approximately 20% turnover in a meandering reach at 5 m a.s.l. In contrast to turnover, braiding, sinuosity, and aquatic habitat composition changed little in response to flooding in all reaches. Location of aquatic habitats in floodplains changed considerably (turnover), whereas habitat configuration and composition remained relatively stable. These results support the applicability of the shifting mosaic steady-state model to riverine floodplain environments.
41507775|The production and use of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) have been restricted in North America since the 1970s; yet, PCBs are still detected in all components of the Great Lakes ecosystems. Our objective was to determine how total PCB (PCB T ) concentrations in spottail shiner (Notropis hudsonius) changed over the period 1975-2007 in the lower Great Lakes. Trends were best described by three basic models: (1) piecewise models where concentrations followed a decreasing trend before the break point (T) and an increasing trend post-T (Lake St. Clair, eastern Lake Erie, and upper Niagara (River); (2) piecewise models where concentrations decreased both pre- and post- T but where the rate of decline post-T was less than that pre-T(western Lake Erie and Niagara River's Tonawanda (Channel); and (3) linear models where concentrations declined at a constant rate across the entire temporal range (lower Niagara River and western Lake Ontario). Piecewise models best described the trends in shallow areas that are susceptible to full water-column mixing whereas constant-slope models best described trends in deeper areas. For piecewise models, T typically occurred during the years 1988-1992. Two events coincided with this timing: (1) a sustained shift towards warming summer temperatures and (2) the proliferation of dreissenid mussels (Dreissena spp.). The weight-of-evidence suggests that the dreissenid invasions were a more likely driving factor behind the observed trends.
41505997|Ecosystem engineers can strongly modify habitat structure and resource availability across space. In theory, this should alter the spatial distributions of trophically interacting species. In this article, we empirically investigated the importance of spatially extended habitat modification by reef-building bivalves in explaining the distribution of four avian predators and their benthic prey in the Wadden Seaone of the world's largest intertidal soft-sediment ecosystems. We applied Structural Equation Modeling to identify important direct and indirect interactions between the different components of the system. We found strong spatial gradients in sediment properties into the surrounding area of mixed blue mussel (Mytilus edulis) and Pacific oyster (Crassostrea gigas) reefs, indicating large-scale (100s of m) engineering effects. The benthic community was significantly affected by these gradients, with the abundance of several important invertebrate prey species increasing with sediment organic matter and decreasing with distance to the reefs. Distance from the reef, sediment properties, and benthic food abundance simultaneously explained significant parts of the distribution of oystercatchers (Haematopus ostmlegus), Eurasian curlews (Numenius arquata), and bar-tailed godwits (Limosa lapponica). The distribution of black-headed gulls (Chroicocephalus ridibundus)a versatile species with many diet options appeared unaffected by the reefs. These results suggest that intertidal reef builders can affect consumer-resource dynamics far beyond their own boundaries, emphasizing their importance in intertidal soft-bottom ecosystems like the Wadden Sea.
41413975|Permafrost soils are a significant global store of carbon (C) with the potential to become a large C source to the atmosphere. Climate change is causing permafrost to thaw, which can affect primary production and decomposition, therefore affecting ecosystem C balance. To understand future responses of permafrost soils to climate change, we inventoried current soil C stocks, investigated C, C: N, C, and N depth profiles, modeled soil C accumulation rates, and calculated decadal net ecosystem production (NEP) in subarctic tundra soils undergoing minimal, moderate, and extensive permafrost thaw near Eight Mile Lake (EML) in Healy, Alaska. We modeled decadal and millennial soil C inputs, decomposition constants, and C accumulation rates by plotting cumulative C inventories against C ages based on radiocarbon dating of surface and deep soils, respectively. Soil C stocks at EML were substantial, over 50 kg C m in the top meter, and did not differ much among sites. Carbon to nitrogen ratio, <C, and N depth profiles indicated most of the decomposition occurred within the organic soil horizon and practically ceased in deeper, frozen horizons. The average C accumulation rate for EML surface soils was 25.8 g C m{ y and the rate for the deep soil accumulation was 2.3 g C m y, indicating these systems have been C sinks throughout the Holocene. Decadal net ecosystem production averaged 14.4 g C m{ y. However, the shape of decadal C accumulation curves, combined with recent annual NEP measurements, indicates soil C accumulation has halted and the ecosystem may be becoming a C source. Thus, the net impact of climate warming on tundra ecosystem C balance includes not only becoming a C source but also the loss of C uptake capacity these systems have provided over the past ten thousand years.
40296383|We exploited the natural climate gradient in the northern hardwood forest at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF) to evaluate the effects of climate variation similar to what is predicted to occur with global warming over the next 50-100 years for northeastern North America on soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycle processes. Our objectives were to (1) characterize differences in soil temperature, moisture and frost associated with elevation at the HBEF and (2) evaluate variation in total soil (TSR) and microbial respiration, N mineralization, nitrification, denitrification, nitrous oxide (NO) flux, and methane (CH) uptake along this gradient. Low elevation sites were consistently warmer (1.5-2.5C) and drier than high elevation sites. Despite higher temperatures, low elevation plots had less snow and more soil frost than high elevation plots. Net N mineralization and nitrification were slower in warmer, low elevation plots, in both summer and winter. In summer, this pattern was driven by lower soil moisture in warmer soils and in winter the pattern was linked to less snow and more soil freezing in warmer soils. These data suggest that N cycling and supply to plants in northern hardwood ecosystems will be reduced in a warmer climate due to changes in both winter and summer conditions. TSR was consistently faster in the warmer, low elevation plots. N cycling processes appeared to be more sensitive to variation in soil moisture induced by climate variation, whereas C cycling processes appeared to be more strongly influenced by temperature.
25053855|This study examined impacts of succession on N export from 20 headwater stream systems in the west central Cascades of Oregon, a region of low anthropogenic N inputs. The seasonal and successional patterns of nitrate
27823675|Atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (N) resulting from fossil fuel combustion has increased N inputs to temperate forests worldwide with large consequences for forest productivity and water quality. Recent work has illustrated that dissolved organic N (DON) often dominates N loss from unpolluted forests and that the relative magnitude of dissolved inorganic N (DIN) loss increases with atmospheric loading. In contrast to DIN, DON loss is thought to be controlled by soil dynamics that operate independently of N supply and demand and thus should track dissolved organic carbon (DOC) following strict stoichiometric constraints. Conversely, DON loss may shift with N supply if soil (SOM) or dissolved organic matter (DOM) is stoichiometrically altered. Here, we assess these two explanations of DON loss, which we refer to as the Passive Carbon Vehicle and the Stoichiometric Enrichment hypotheses, by analyzing patterns in soil and stream C and N in forest watersheds spanning a broad gradient in atmospheric N loading (545 kg N ha1 y1). We show that soil N and DON losses are not static but rather increase asymptotically with N loading whereas soil C and DOC do not, resulting in enrichment of organic N expressed as decreased soil C:N and stream DOC:DON ratios. DON losses from unpolluted sites are consistent with conservative dissolution and transport of refractory SOM. As N supply increases, however, N enrichment of organic losses is greater than expected from simple dissolution of enriched soils, suggesting activation of novel pathways of DON production or direct N enrichment of DOM. We suggest that our two hypotheses represent domains of control over forest DON loss as N supply increases but also that stoichiometric enrichment of bulk soils alone cannot fully account for large DON losses in the most N-polluted forests.
40296265|Nutrient availability in the arctic is expected to increase in the next century due to accelerated decomposition associated with warming and, to a lesser extent, increased nitrogen deposition. To explore how changes in nutrient availability affect ecosystem carbon (C) cycling, we used radiocarbon to quantify changes in belowground C dynamics associated with long-term fertilization of graminoid-dominated tussock tundra at Toolik Lake, Alaska. Since 1981, yearly fertilization with nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) has resulted in a shift to shrub-dominated vegetation. These combined changes have altered the quantity and quality of litter inputs, the vertical distribution and dynamics of fine roots, and the decomposition rate of soil organic C. The loss of C from the deep organic and mineral soil has more than offset the C accumulation in the litter and upper organic soil horizons. In the litter and upper organic horizons, radiocarbon measurements show that increased inputs resulted in overall C accumulation, despite being offset by increased decomposition in some soil pools. To reconcile radiocarbon observations in the deeper organic and mineral soil layers, where most of the ecosystem C loss occurred, both a decrease in input of new root material and a dramatic increase of decomposition rates in centuries-old soil C pools were required. Therefore, with future increases in nutrient availability, we may expect substantial losses of C which took centuries to accumulate.
25470328|The term "keystone species" is used to describe organisms that exert a disproportionately important influence on the ecosystems in which they live. Analogous concepts such as "keystone mutualism" and "mobile links" illustrate how, in many cases, the interactions of two or more species produce an effect greater than that of any one species individually. Because of their role in transporting nutrients from the ocean to river and riparian ecosystems, Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) and brown bear (Ursus arctos) have been described as keystone species and mobile links, although few data are available to quantify the importance of this interaction relative to other nutrient vectors. Application of a mass balance model to data from a southwestern Alaskan stream suggests that nitrogen (N) influx to the riparian forest is significantly increased in the presence of both salmon and bear, but not by either species individually. The interactions of salmon and bear may provide up to 24% of riparian N budgets, but this percentage varies in time and space according to variations in salmon escapement, channel morphology and watershed vegetation characteristics, suggesting interdependence and functional redundancy among N sources. These findings illustrate the complexity of interspecific interactions, the importance of linkages across ecosystem boundaries and the necessity of examining the processes and interactions that shape ecological communities, rather than their specific component parts.
3659006| We studied the natural regeneration of an ombrotrophic peatland (Cacouna bog) located in southern Qubec that was disturbed by peat mining and other anthropogenic activities over a 200-year period. Using an extensive collection of historical documents, as well as dendrochronological data, we reconstructed the history of the peatland. We also sampled vegetation and environmental variables, and integrated the data in a geographic information system. More than 60% of the total area of the bog was mined between 1942 and 1975, and 98 km of ditches were dug to drain the site. The peatland lost 34% of its initial peat volume between 1946 and 1998. Although the bog was severely disturbed, the spontaneous revegetation of the site by vascular plants was successful (90%-100% cover). However, only 10% of the total mined area has been recolonized by Sphagnum species, mainly because drainage ditches are still operational and contribute to drying out the bog. Water table level, peat deposit thickness, and pH are abiotic factors strongly influencing the vegetation composition in the bog. Spatial and historical factors are also important components in this study since they explain, either alone or in interaction with abiotic factors, 44% of the variation of the species data. The intensity of mining activities and the pattern of abandonment of mined sectors strongly influenced abiotic factors, which in turn affected the revegetation process. Even if the Sphagnum cover of the bog is low, the rapid "recovery" of the vegetation cover in the peatland indicates that after the reestablishment of an appropriate hydrological regime, a highly disturbed peatland has a considerable potential for regeneration. 
41505939|The spatial pattern of fire observed across boreal landscapes is the outcome of complex interactions among components of the fire environment. We investigated how the naturally occurring patterns of ignitions, fuels, and weather generate spatial pattern of burn probability (BP) in a large and highly fireprone boreal landscape of western Canada, Wood Buffalo National Park. This was achieved by producing a high-resolution map of BP using a fire simulation model that models the ignition and spread of individual fires for the current state of the study landscape (that is, the 'control'). Then, to extract the effect of the variability in ignitions, fuels, and weather on spatial BP patterns, we subtracted the control BP map to those produced by "homogenizing" a single environmental factor of interest (that is, the 'experimental treatments'). This yielded maps of spatial residuals that represent the spatial BP patterns for which the heterogeneity of each factor of interest is responsible. Residuals were analyzed within a structural equation modeling framework. The results showed unequal contributions of fuels (67.4%), weather (29.2%), and ignitions (3.4%) to spatial BP patterning. The large contribution of fuels reflects how substantial heterogeneity of land cover on this landscape strongly affects BP. Although weather has a chiefly temporal control on fire regimes, the variability in fire-conducive weather conditions exerted a surprisingly large influence on spatial BP patterns. The almost negligible effect of spatial ignition patterns was surprising but explainable in the context of this area's fire regime. Similar contributions of fuels, weather, and ignitions could be expected in other parts of the boreal forest that lack a strong anthropogenic imprint, but are likely to be altered in human-dominated fire regimes.
3659055|The management paradigm fails when confronted with complex problems where there are no clearly defined objectives and a plethora of mutually contradictory approaches, each of which is plausible in a particular frame of reference. The notion of the disinterested expert cannot withstand scrutiny, and putative experts must earn public trust. Scientists must be prepared to share their advisory and decision-making roles with a variety of interested parties and participate with them on an equal footing.
41413039|This study evaluated whether nitrogen (N) saturated upland forests can degrade downstream water quality in the Tatara River Basin, northern Kyushu, western Japan. Our hypothesis is that elevated atmospheric N deposition degrades downstream water quality in a watershed containing N-saturated forests because a considerable amount of atmospherically deposited N passes into the streams without being retained. Synoptic stream water samplings were conducted at 23 sites across a wide range of land-use categories in the basin over 1 year. A long-term temporal analysis of downstream water quality over the last 30 years (1977-2007) was conducted and compared with longterm trends in related factors such as urban/agricultural activity, sewage wastewater treatment, atmospheric N deposition, and forest condition. The results showed that atmospherically deposited N to N-saturated forests can be a large enough non-point source of N leaving the watershed to impact downstream water quality. This was highlighted by the reduction in pollutant exports derived from urban/agricultural activities, an increase in atmospheric N deposition, and the maturation of coniferous plantation forests in the past 30 years. These have led to reductions in total phosphorus and organic nitrogen concentrations in downstream water, whereas downstream nitrate (NO) concentrations increased over the last 30 years. The consequent increase in the downstream N:P ratio indicated P limitation. Reducing the $NO_3^ - $ exports from N-saturated upland forests is suggested as a strategy to improve regional downstream $NO_3^ - $ pollution, but involves intercontinental-scale action in reducing atmospheric N emissions.
25053848|An increase in ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation has been posited to be a potential factor in the decline of some amphibian population. This hypothesis has received support from laboratory and field experiments showing that current levels of UV-B can cause embryo mortality in some species, but little research has addressed whether UV-B is influencing the distribution of amphibian populations. We compared patterns of amphibian presence to site-specific estimates of UV-B dose at 683 ponds and lakes in Glacier, Olympic, and Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Parks. All three parks are located in western North America, a region with a concentration of documented amphibian declines. Site-specific daily UV-B dose was estimated using modeled and field-collected data to incorporate the effects of elevation, landscape, and water-column dissolved organic carbon. Of the eight species we examined (Ambystoma gracile, Ambystoma macrodactylum, Bufo boreas, Pseudacris regilla, Rana cascadae, Rana leuteiventris, Rana muscosa, Taricha granulosa), two species (T. granulosa and A. macrodactylum) had quadratic relationships with UV-B that could have resulted from negative UV-B effects. Both species were most likely to occur at moderate UV-B levels. Ambystoma macrodactylum showed this pattern only in Glacier National Park. Occurrence of A. macrodactylum increased as UV-B increased in Olympic National Park despite UV-B levels similar to those recorded in Glacier. We also found marginal support for a negative association with UV-B for P. regilla in one of the two parks where it occurred. We did not find evidence of a negative UV-B effect for any other species. Much more work is still needed to determine whether UV-B, either alone or in concert with other factors, is causing widespread population losses in amphibians.
25470369|To initially characterize the dynamics and environmental controls of CO, ecosystem CO fluxes were measured for different vegetation zones in a deep-water wetland on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau during the growing season of 2002. Four zones of vegetation along a gradient from shallow to deep water were dominated, respectively by the emergent species Carex allivescens V. Krez., Scirpus distigmaticus L., Hippuris vulgaris L., and the submerged species Potamogeton pectinatus L. Gross primary production (GPP), ecosystem respiration (Re), and net ecosystem production (NEP) were markedly different among the vegetation zones, with lower Re and GPP in deeper water. NEP was highest in the Scirpus-dominated zone with moderate water depth, but lowest in the Potamogeton-zone that occupied approximately 75% of the total wetland area. Diurnal variation in CO flux was highly correlated with variation in light intensity and soil temperature. The relationship between CO flux and these environmental variables varied among the vegetation zones. Seasonal CO fluxes, including GPP, Re, and NEP, were strongly correlated with above-ground biomass, which was in turn determined by water depth. In the early growing season, temperature sensitivity (Q) for Re varied from 6.0 to 8.9 depending on vegetation zone. Q decreased in the late growing season. Estimated NEP for the whole deep-water wetland over the growing season was 24 g C m. Our results suggest that water depth is the major environmental control of seasonal variation in CO flux, whereas photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) controls diurnal dynamics.
25053875|Log floating in the 19th to mid 20th centuries has profoundly changed the environmental conditions in many northern river systems of the world. Regulation of flow by dams, straightening and narrowing of channels by various piers and wing dams, and homogenization of bed structure are some of the major impacts. As a result, the conditions for many riverine organisms have been altered. Removing physical constructions and returning boulders to the channels can potentially restore conditions for these organisms. Here we describe the history of log driving, review its impact on physical and biological conditions and processes, and predict the responses to restoration. Reviewing the literature on comparable restoration efforts and building upon this knowledge, using boreal Swedish rivers as an example, we address the last point. We hypothesize that restoration measures will make rivers wider and more sinuous, and provide rougher bottoms, thus improving land-water interactions and increasing the retention capacity of water, sediment, organic matter and nutrients. The geomorphic and hydraulic/hydrologic alterations are supposed to favor production, diversity, migration and reproduction of riparian and aquatic organisms. The response rates are likely to vary according to the types of processes and organisms. Some habitat components, such as beds of very large boulders and bedrock outcrops, and availability of sediment and large woody debris are believed to be extremely difficult to restore. Monitoring and evaluation at several scales are needed to test our predictions.
40603421|We investigated the role of rock-derived mineral nutrient availability on the nutrient dynamics of overlying forest communities (Populus tremuloides and Picea engelmanni-Abies lasiocarpa v. arizonica) across three parent materials (andsite, limestone, and sandstone) in the southern Rocky Mountains of Colorado. Broad geochemical differences were observed between bedrock materials; however, bulk soil chemistries were remarkably similar between the three different sites. In contrast, soil nutrient pools were considerably different, particularly for P, Ca, and Mg concentrations. Despite variations in nutrient stocks and nutrient availability in soils, we observed relatively inflexible foliar concentrations and foliar stoichiometries for both deciduous and coniferous species. Foliar nutrient rsorption (P and K) in the deciduous species followed patterns of nutrient content across substrate types, with higher rsorption corresponding to lower bedrock concentrations. Work presented here indicates a complex plant response to available soil nutrients, wherein plant nutrient use compensates for variations in supply gradients and results in the maintenance of a narrow range in foliar stoichiometry.
25470388|Linked social-ecological systems in which surprise and crisis are interspersed with periods of stability and predictability are inherently difficult to manage. This condition, coupled with the legacies of past management actions, typically leaves policy and decision makers few options other than to incrementally adapt and reinforce the current trajectory of the system. Decision making becomes increasingly reactive and incremental as the system moves from one crisis to another. Eventually the system loses its capacity to cope with perturbations and surprise. Using a combination of dynamical-systems modeling and historical analysis, we studied a process of this kind as it developed in the Goulburn Broken Catchment in southeastern Australia over the past 150 years. Using the model to simulate trajectories of the biohydrological system, we correlate the state of the physical system to historical events and management action. We show how sequential management decisions have eroded the resilience of the system (its ability to cope with shocks and surprises) and reduced options for future change. Using the model in a forward-looking mode, we explore future management options and their implications for the resilience of the system.
40296292|We compared terrestrial net primary production (NPP) and terrestrial export of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) with lake water heterotrophic bacterial activity in 12 headwater lake catchments along an altitude gradient in subarctic Sweden. Modelled NPP declined strongly with altitude and annual air temperature decreases along the altitude gradient (6C between the warmest and the coldest catchment). Estimated terrestrial DOC export to the lakes was closely correlated to NPP. Heterotrophic bacterial production (BP) and respiration (BR) were mainly based on terrestrial organic carbon and strongly correlated with the terrestrial DOC export. Excess respiration over PP of the pelagic system was similar to net emission of CO in the lakes. BR and CO emission made up considerably higher shares of the terrestrial DOC input in warm lakes than in cold lakes, implying that respiration and the degree of net heterotrophy in the lakes were dependant not only on terrestrial export of DOC, but also on characteristics in the lakes which changed along the gradient and affected the bacterial metabolization of allochthonous DOC. The study showed close links between terrestrial primary production, terrestrial DOC export and bacterial activity in lakes and how these relationships were dependant on air temperature. Increases in air temperature in high latitude unproductive systems might have considerable consequences for lake water productivity and release of CO to the atmosphere, which are ultimately determined by terrestrial primary production.
25470400|In marine soft sediments, large organisms are potentially important players in the nonlinear interactions that occur among animals, their food, and their chemical environment, all of which influence the contribution of benthos to ecosystem function. We investigated the consequences of removing large individuals of two functionally contrasting benthic communities on nutrient regeneration, microphyte standing stock, and macrobenthic community composition. The experiment was conducted at two adjacent sites that were physically similar but biologically different, one dominated by large deposit feeders and the other by large suspension feeders. Chemical fluxes were measured in experimental plots, and sediments were sampled to assess changes in macrofauna, sediment grain size, organic content, and microphyte standing stock. Our results demonstrate that the removal of large suspension feeders or deposit feeders influenced the flux of nitrogen and oxygen, surficial sediment characteristics, and community composition. In the deposit-feeder community, interactions between nutrient regeneration and grazing highlight important feedbacks between large macrofauna and biogeochemical processes and production by microphytes, indicating that the loss of large infauna driven by increased rates of anthropogenic disturbance may lead to functional extinction and cause shifts in community structure and ecosystem performance.
3658655| Submerged macrophytes are a major component of freshwater ecosystems, yet their net effect on water column phosphorus (P), algae, and bacterioplankton is not well understood. A 4-month mass-balance study during the summer quantified the net effect of a large (5.5 ha) undisturbed macrophyte bed on these water-column properties. The bed is located in a slow-flowing
3658919| Studies in unpolluted, old-growth forests in the coastal range of southern Chile (4230S) can provide a baseline for understanding how forest ecosystems are changing due to the acceleration of nitrogen (N) inputs that has taken place over the last century. Chilean temperate forests, in contrast to their northern hemisphere counterparts, exhibit extremely low losses of inorganic N to stream waters. The objectives of this study were (a) to determine whether low inorganic N outputs in these forests were due to low rates of N mineralization or nitrification, and (b) to examine how biodiversity (defined as number of dominant tree species) and forest structure influence N mineralization and overall patterns of N cycling. Studies were conducted in a species-poor, conifer-dominated (Fitzroya cupressoides) forest with an even-aged canopy, and in a mixed-angiosperm (Nothofagus nitida) forest with a floristically more diverse and unstable canopy. Nitrogen mineralization rates measured in laboratory assays varied seasonally, reaching 6.0 g N/g DW/day in both forests during late summer. Higher values were related to higher microbial activity, larger pools of labile inorganic N, and increased fine litter inputs. Field assays, conducted monthly, indicated positive net flux from N mineralization mainly from December to January in both forests. Annual net flux of N from mineralization varied from 20 to 23 kg/ha/year for the Fitzroya forest and from 31 to 37 kg/ha/year for the Nothofagus forest. Despite low losses of inorganic N to streams, N mineralization and nitrification are not inhibited in these forests, implying the existence of strong sinks for NO
40296419|A minimal food web model was constructed comprising one grazing and one detritus food chain coupled by nutrient cycling and generalist carnivores to investigate how prey preference by carnivores may affect the strength of trophic cascades across a gradient of nutrient enrichment. The equilibrium or mean abundance of each food web component and the magnitude of the carnivore effect on lower trophic levels were calculated for different values of the prey preference and nutrient input parameters. Our model predicts that nutrient enrichment increases the mean abundances of carnivores, autotrophs and detritus, but the magnitude of this effect is dependent on the prey preference term. On the other hand, herbivores and detritivores are relatively unaffected by enrichment but are strongly affected by carnivore preference. Carnivores have a negative effect on herbivores and a positive effect on autotrophs and detritus, whereas the effect on detritivores can be both positive and negative. At high preference for herbivores, carnivores have a positive effect on detritivores, because the positive effect of increased detritus availability due to reduced herbivore grazing outweighs the negative effect of predation. At high preference for detritivores, the balance is changed in the other direction. We argue that in systems where authochtonous primary production is the major source of detritus, herbivores can control the rates of detritus production and have indirect effects on detritivores, which may feed back into effects on herbivores through their shared enemies. This positive feedback is probably one mechanism affecting the resilience of alternative stable states in shallow lakes.
40603433|The environmental and biotic factors affecting spatial variation in canopy three-dimensional (3-D) structure and aboveground tree biomass (AGB) are poorly understood in tropical rain forests. We combined field measurements and airborne light detection and ranging (lidar) to quantify 3-D structure and AGB across a 5,016 ha rain forest reserve on the northeastern flank of Mauna Kea volcano, Hawaii Island. We compared AGB among native stands dominated by Metrosideros polymorpha found along a 6001800 m elevation/climate gradient, and on three substrate-age classes of 5, 20, and 65 kyr. We also analyzed how alien tree invasion, canopy species dominance and topographic relief influence AGB levels. Canopy vertical profiles derived from lidar measurements were strong predictors (r = 0.78) of AGB across sites and species. Mean AGB ranged from 48 to 363 Mg ha in native forest stands. Increasing elevation corresponded to a 5384% decrease in AGB levels, depending upon substrate age. Holding climate constant, changes in substrate age from 5 to 65 kyr corresponded to a 2353% decline in biomass. Invasion by Psidium cattleianum and Ficus rubiginosa trees resulted in a 1938% decrease in AGB, with these carbon losses mediated by substrate age. In contrast, the spread of former plantation tree species Fraxinus uhdei corresponded to a 7-to 10-fold increase in biomass. The effects of topographic relief at both local and regional scales were evident in the AGB maps, with poorly drained terrain harboring 76% lower biomass than forests on welldrained relief. Our results quantify the absolute and relative importance of environmental factors controlling spatial variation in tree biomass across a rain forest landscape, and highlight the rapid changes in carbon storage incurred following biological invasion.
3658717|We examined red maple (Acer rubrum L.) leaf litter breakdown in streams and riparian zones at two sites in the southern Appalachian Mountains to understand how differences in abiotic and biotic factors influence leaf breakdown rates. Litterbags were placed in three riparian habitats differing in litter layer moisture: stream > bank > upland. Invertebrates colonizing litterbags at one site were also examined to determine how variations in community and functional structure affect breakdown rates. Leaves broke down fastest in streams and slowest in upland habitats, whereas bank habitats were intermediate and characterized by high variability. Faster leaf breakdown rates in streams appeared to be a function of greater moisture availability, a more stable thermal regime, and a higher biomass of leaf-shredding invertebrates, especially the stonefly Tallaperla. In addition, patterns of leaf breakdown and invertebrate community structure provided evidence for a stronger than expected ecological connection between the stream and the bank. Overall, detritus processing within this narrow riparian ecosystem varied considerably depending on the availability of moisture. Results from this study show that stream channel-flood-plain interactions in riparian ecosystems of steep forested mountains are analogous to ones in larger downstream or low-gradient systems. Riparian zones throughout a river network display a remarkable heterogeneity in their ability to process organic matter, which is ultimately driven by changes in hydrological conditions.
40603629|The cycling of trace metals through terrestrial ecosystems is modulated by plant and soil processes.Changes in plant growth and function and soil properties associated with increased atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO ) may therefore also affect the biological storage and stoichiometry of trace metals.We examined COeffects on a suite of metal micronutrients and contaminants in forest trees and soils at two free-air COenrichment sites a loblolly pine forest in North Carolina (Duke) and a sweetgum plantation in Tennessee [Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL)] and an open-top chamber experiment in a scrub-oak community in Florida [Smithsonian Environmental Research Center (SERC)]. We found that CO effects on soil metals were variable across sites; there were significantly higher surface soil metal concentrations with CO enrichment at Duke and ORNL (P < 0.05), but a trend of decreased soil metal concentrations at SERC (non-significant). These impacts on metals may be understood in the context of CO effects on soil organic matter (SOM); changes in percent SOM with CO enrichment were greatest at Duke (18% increase), followed by ORNL (7% increase), with limited effect at SERC (3% increase).There were significant effects of elevated CO on foliar metal concentrations at all sites, but the response of foliar metals to CO enrichment varied by metal, among sites, and within sites based on plant species, canopy height, and leaf age.Contrary to expectations, we did not find an overall decline in foliar metal concentrations with CO enrichment, and some essential plant metals were greater under elevated CO (for example, 28% increase in Mn across species and sites). Our results suggest that elevated CO impacts on trace metal biogeochemistry can be understood by accounting for both metal function (or lack thereof) in plants and the soil characteristics of the ecosystem.
25470391|Soil respiration
25053876|Food chain models have dominated empirical studies of trophic interactions in the past decades, and have lead to important insights into the factors that control ecological communities. Despite the importance of food chain models in instigating ecological investigations, many empirical studies still show a strong deviation from the dynamics that food chain models predict. We present a theoretical framework that explains some of the discrepancies by showing that trophic interactions are likely to be strongly influenced by the spatial configuration of consumers and their resources. Differences in the spatial scale at which consumers and their resources function lead to uncoupling of the population dynamics of the interacting species, and may explain overexploitation and depletion of resource populations. We discuss how changed land use, likely the most prominent future stress on natural systems, may affect food web dynamics by interfering with the scale of interaction between consumers and their resource.
25622877|The carrying capacity of shellfish aquaculture is determined by the interaction of cultured species with the ecosystem, particularly food availability to suspension feeders. A multiple box dynamic ecosystem model was constructed to examine the carrying capacity for mussel (Mytilus edulis) aquaculture in Tracadie Bay, Prince of Edward Island, Canada. Criteria for carrying capacity were based on chlorophyll concentration. The model was run in two different years (1998 and 1999) in which time series for three points inside the bay and a point outside the bay were available. This data set allows spatial validation of the ecosystem model and assessment of its sensitivity to changes in boundary conditions. The model validation process indicated that the differential equations and parameters used in the simulation provided robust prediction of the ecological dynamics within the bay. Results verified that mussel biomass exerts top-down control of phytoplankton populations. The model indicates that conditions observed during 1999 are more sensitive to grazing pressure from aquaculture than was observed during 1998, highlighting the importance of inter-annual variability in carrying capacity of the bay. This result is important from a management perspective because it emphasizes application of a precautionary policy and prediction in regulation of aquaculture activity in the bay. Retrospective scenarios showed that although the bay could yield greater mussel biomass production, stress on the environment would lead the ecosystem outside of its natural range of variation. Despite the spatial simplicity employed in the present model, it provides substantial management capability as well as an ecosystem-oriented approach to shellfish aquaculture.
41507778|Lake ecosystems are nowadays often subjected to multi-stressors, such as eutrophication, climate change, and fish manipulations, the effects of which can be difficult to disentangle, not least from the usual short-term limnological time-series that are available. However, multi-proxy paleoecological approaches may offer such opportunities, especially in the study of remote island lakes characterized by being species poor and buffered somewhat against the recent climate change. We used a paleoecological multi-proxy approach to determine the relative importance of nutrient loading, meteorological forcing, and fish species introduction for recent lake ecosystem development in Lake Furnas on the island of So Miguel, the Azores. The lake was stocked with cyprinids in the late nineteenth century and recently also with piscivorous fish, and has been affected by increasing agricultural activities in its catchment. We analyzed marker pigments, cladoceran remains, and subfossil diatoms in a 46-cm core representing the last 40 years. Remains of large-bodied cladocerans were virtually absent until the introductions of piscivorous pike and pikeperch in 1980 and 1982, respectively, after which the zooplankton community composition changed abruptly. First Ceriodaphnia sp. appeared (ca. 1980), followed by Daphnia a few years later. Carotenoids from cyanobacteria (myxoxanthophyll, aphanizophyll) were regularly present in the lake sediment with a major shift occurring around 1994, from N-fixing to non-fixing groups. This shift coincided with the onset of anoxia in the lake water, evidenced by the presence of pigments from Chlorobiaceae (BChl-e homologues and isorenieratene), and with a rapid decrease in benthic-tychoplanktonic diatoms and an increase in cyanobacteria, chlorophytes, dinoflagellates, and cryptophytes. The composition of microbial and algal assemblages changed rapidly after Daphnia appearance, and the covariance between fish stocking, nutrient loading, and enhanced temperatures captured most of the variability in algae accumulation, and thus likely in lake primary production as well. Thus, lake production apparently did not respond strongly to specific changes in temperature, food-web structure, or nutrient input, but rather to the combined effects of all the three forcing mechanisms, emphasizing the role of multi-Stressors in lake ecosystem functioning. Our study demonstrates the sensitivity of these remote species-poor lakes to increased nutrient loading, introduction of non-native species, such as fish and climate change.
23328068|Tree species can affect the decomposition process through the quality of their leaf fall and through the species-specific conditions that they generate in their environment. We compared the relative importance of these effects in a 2-year experiment. Litterbags containing leaf litter of the winter-deciduous Quercus canariensis, the evergreen Q. suber and mixed litter were incubated beneath distinct plant covers. We measured litter carbon loss, 9 macro- and micronutrients and 18 soil chemical, physical and biological parameters of the incubation environment. Tree species affected decay dynamics through their litter quality and, to a lesser extent, through the induced environmental conditions. The deciduous litter showed a faster initial decomposition but left a larger fraction of slow decomposable biomass compared with the perennial litter; in contrast the deciduous environment impeded early decomposition while promoting further carbon loss in the latter decay stages. The interaction of these effects led to a negative litterenvironment interaction contradicting the home-field advantage hypothesis. Leaf litter N, Ca and Mn as well as soil N, P and soil moisture were the best predictors for decomposition rates. Litter N and Ca exerted counteractive effects in early versus late decay stages; Mn was the best predictor for the decomposition limit value, that is, the fraction of slowly decomposable biomass at the later stage of decomposition; P and soil moisture showed a constant and positive relation with carbon loss. The deciduous oak litter had a higher initial nutrient content and released its nutrients faster and in a higher proportion than the perennial oak litter, significantly increasing soil fertility beneath its canopy. Our findings provide further insights into the factors that control the early and late stages of the decomposition process and reveal potential mechanisms underlying tree species influence on litter decay rate, carbon accumulation and nutrient cycling.
3659063| Traditional biogeochemical theories suggest that ecosystem nitrogen retention is controlled by biotic N limitation, that stream N losses should increase with successional age, and that increasing N deposition will accelerate this process. These theories ignore the role of dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) as a mechanism of N loss. We examined patterns of organic and inorganic N export from sets of old-growth and historically (80-110 years ago) logged and burned watersheds in the northeastern US, a region of moderate, elevated N deposition. Stream nitrate concentrations were strongly seasonal, and mean ( SD) nitrate export from old-growth watersheds
3658608|Increases in the deposition of atmospheric nitrogen (N) influence N cycling in forest ecosystems and can result in negative consequences due to the leaching of nitrate into groundwaters. From December 1995 to February 1998, the Pan-European Programme for the Intensive and Continuous Monitoring of Forest Ecosystems measured forest conditions at a plot scale for conifer and broadleaf forests, including the performance of time series of soil solution chemistry. The influence of various ecosystem conditions on soil solution nitrate concentrations at these forest plots (n = 104) was then analyzed with a statistical model. Soil solution nitrate concentrations varied by season, and summer concentrations were approximately 25% higher than winter ones. Soil solution nitrate concentrations increased dramatically with throughfall (and bulk precipitation) N input for both broadleaf and conifer forests. However, at elevated levels of throughfall N input (more than
3658642|Measurement of nitrogen isotopic composition (
41505940|We quantified rates, sizes, and spatial properties of prevailing disturbance regimes in five tropical rain forest landscapes on a substrate-age gradient in Hawaii. By integrating measurements from airborne LiDAR with field studies and statistical modeling, we show that the structure and dynamics of these forests respond to processes that change during the development of ecosystems. On young substrates of 0.3 ky where forests are in primary succession and are limited by N, mean canopy height was 13 m and height decreases more than 1 m occurred in small, isolated events (powerlaw exponent = 1.69  0.02, n = 61 gaps ha). The proportion of the landscape affected by disturbance increased on high-fertility intermediateaged substrates of 5-65 ky and canopies were heterogeneous. Frequencies of height decreases more than 1 m were n = 14, 18, and 30 gaps ha corresponding to power-law exponents of 2.188  0.02, 2.220  0.03, and 1.982  0.02 on substrates of 5, 20, and 65 ky. There was a substantial difference between forests on a 150 ky substrate and sites of 5-65 ky; trees on the older substrate formed patchworks of stunted cloud-forest and stands of taller-stature trees. The frequency of recent disturbance events more than 1 m was n = 48 gaps ha, corresponding to a power-law exponent of 1.638  0.01. Across the substrate-age gradient, the proportion of each landscape that decreased in height by more than 1 m was 0.16, 0.40, 0.41, 0.36, and 0.17, respectively. These findings demonstrate that substrate age and processes associated with ecosystem development can mediate the rates, sizes, and spatial characteristics of disturbance regimes on forested landscapes, and point toward the necessity of large-area samples to obtain robust estimates of natural dynamics.
40296374|Soil respiration constitutes the second largest flux of carbon (C) between terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere. This study provides a synthesis of soil respiration
41413042|Climate change scenarios predict simultaneously increase in temperature, altered precipitation patterns and elevated atmospheric CO concentration, which will affect key ecosystem processes and plant growth and species interactions. In a large-scale experiment, we investigated the effects of in situ exposure to elevated atmospheric CO concentration, increased temperature and prolonged drought periods on the plant biomass in a dry heathland (Brandbjerg, Denmark). Results after 3 years showed that drought reduced the growth of the two dominant species Deschampsia flexuosa and Calluna vulgaris. However, both species recovered quickly after rewetting and the drought had no significant effect on annual aboveground biomass production. We did not observe any effects of increased temperature. Elevated CO stimulated the biomass production for D. flexuosa in one out of three years but did not influence the standing biomass for either D. flexuosa or the ecosystem as more litter was produced. Treatment combinations showed little interactions on the measured parameters and in particular elevated CO did not counterbalance the drought effect on plant growth, as we had anticipated. The plant community did not show any significant responses to the imposed climate changes and we conclude that the two heathland species, on a short time scale, will be relatively resistant to the changes in climatic conditions.
43677507|Reactive nitrogen (N) and ozone (O) are the most widespread atmospheric pollutants with significant implications for conservation of semi-natural vegetation; their combined effects have, however, not been tested in long-term field experiments. To investigate these effects on the species composition of a subalpine Geo-Montani-Nardetum pasture, 180 turf monoliths were exposed for seven years to five N loads (0, +5, +10, +25, +50 kg N ha y) in combination with three O levels (ambient, 1.2 or 1.6 ambient concentration) in a free-air fumigation experiment at 2000 m a.s.l. in the Central Alps. Aboveground biomass of grasses, forbs, sedges, and legumes, as well as individual species abundance was recorded annually. N addition caused strong changes in community composition and slightly reduced Shannon diversity: Sedges (Carex sempervirens and Car ex ornithopoda) tripled their fractional biomass at the expense of legumes (Trifolium alpinum), grasses (Agrostis capillaris, Briza media, Festuca spp.), and forbs, the latter of which responded inconsistently. Compositional changes were significant with +5 kg ha y; at all levels of N, however, changes ceased after 5 years. Elevated O and the combined O  N exposure had no effect on functional group productivity. Overall the results reveal high N sensitivity of the subalpine grassland, but low sensitivity to O, singly or in combination with N. Thus, in the longer term any input of N above the current ambient deposition may cause a shift in the plant community composition of these ecosystems which are considered hotspots for biodiversity.
3658685|Arthur George Tansley's paper "The Temporal Genetic Series as a Means of Approach to Philosophy," published here for the first time, provides the philosophical context for the development of his ecosystem theory. His rejection of idealist reasoning, his concern with ethics, and his long standing interest in Freudian psychology as well as mechanistic reasoning comprised the intellectual underpinnings for his thinking on systems and ecosystem theory.
40296326|Experimental studies of how global changes and human activities affect plant diversity often focus on broad measures of diversity and discuss the implications of these changes for ecosystem function. We examined how experimental warming and grazing affected species within plant groups of direct importance to Tibetan pastoralists: medicinal plants used by humans and palatable plants consumed by livestock. Warming resulted in species losses from both the medicinal and palatable plant groups; however, differential relative vulnerability to warming occurred. With respect to the percent of warming-induced species losses, the overall plant community lost 27%, medicinal plants lost 21%, and non-medicinal plants lost 40% of species. Losses of palatable and non-palatable species were similar to losses in the overall plant community. The deep-rootedness of medicinal plants resulted in lowered sensitivity to warming, whereas the shallow-rootedness of non-medicinal plants resulted in greater sensitivity to warming; the variable rooting depth of palatable and non-palatable plants resulted in an intermediate response to warming. Predicting the vulnerability of plant groups to human activities can be enhanced by knowledge of plant traits, their response to specific drivers, and their distribution within plant groups. Knowledge of the mechanisms through which a driver operates, and the evolutionary interaction of plants with that driver, will aid predictions. Future steps to protect ecosystem services furnished by medicinal and palatable plants will be required under the novel stress of a warmer climate. Grazing may be an important tool in maintaining some of these services under future warming.
40296420|The quantities and spatial distribution of nutrients in savanna ecosystems are affected by many factors, of which fire, herbivory and symbiotic N-fixation are particularly important. We measured soil nitrogen (N) pools and the relative abundance of N and phosphorus (P) in herbaceous vegetation in five vegetation types in a humid savanna in Tanzania. We also performed a factorial fertilization experiment to investigate which nutrients most limit herbaceous production. N pools in the top 10 cm of soil were low at sites where fires were frequent, and higher in areas with woody legume encroachment, or high herbivore excretion. Biomass production was co-limited by N and P at sites that were frequently burnt or heavily grazed by native herbivores. In contrast, aboveground production was limited by N in areas receiving large amounts of excreta from livestock. N 2 -fixation by woody legumes did not lead to P-limitation, but did increase the availability of N relative to P. We conclude that the effects of fire, herbivory and N 2 -fixation upon soil N pools and N: P-stoichiometry in savanna ecosystems are, to a large extent, predictable.
25053846|Ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B, 280-320-nm wavelengths) doses were estimated for 1024 wetlands in six national parks: Acadia (Acadia), Glacier (Glacier), Great Smoky Mountains (Smoky), Olympic (Olympic), Rocky Mountain (Rocky), and Sequoia/Kings Canyon (Sequoia). Estimates were made using ground-based UV-B data (Brewer spectrophotometers), solar radiation models, GIS tools, field characterization of vegetative features, and quantification of DOC concentration and spectral absorbance. UV-B dose estimates were made for the summer solstice, at a depth of 1 cm in each wetland. The mean dose across all wetlands and parks was 19.3 W-h
3658723|We asked whether
3658884|We report a multiple-scale analysis of forest fragmentation based on 30-m
3658810|Ecosystem resistance to the impacts of diverse human insults depends on the replacement of sensitive species by ones more tolerant of the stressor. Here we present evidence from a whole-lake acidification experiment (Lake 302S, Experimental Lakes Area, Canada) that resistance and species compensation decline with increasing trophic level. Diverse and fast-growing algal and rotifer assemblages with high dispersal potentials showed significant compensatory species dynamics, resulting in the maintenance of total biomass despite 30%-80% declines in species richness. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that significant compensatory algal and rotifer dynamics were best explained by differential species tolerances of acidified chemical conditions coupled with release from resource limitation and predation. However, less diverse cladoceran, copepod, and fish assemblages showed significant declines in total biomass and weak species compensation with loss of species during acidification. In comparison, algal and zooplankton species dynamics remained relatively synchronized in a nearby unperturbed reference lake (Lake 239) during the experiment. As a result, Lake 302S showed limited ecosystem resistance to anthropogenic acidification. Therefore, we hypothesize that lost species will increase the susceptibility of acidified lakes to the adverse impacts of other environmental stressors (for example, climate warming, stratospheric ozone depletion, invasive species). Consequently, the ecosystem stability of boreal lakes is expected to decline as global change proceeds.
25053852|Agronomists, environmentalists, land managers, policy makers and development agents who make decisions at different levels (plot, farm, ecosystem, landscape, ecoregion, country) increasingly demand scientific information to understand cross-level links and interactions in systems that behave hierarchically. The purpose of this work is to study cross-scale relations and interactions in agricultural ecosystems of the Argentine Pampas. Based on public censuses and surveys from 1960 to 1996, data on crops cultivation, fossil energy (FE) consumption and energy productivity were used for the analysis. The whole region was divided into eight increasing geographic scales, and the impact of one scale on the broader ones was assessed through a simple analysis of energy productivity. Regression analysis was used to identify cross-scale linear slopes and to determine cross-scale interactions. We assume that non-parallel slopes in different years are attributable to cross-scale interactions. Given that the results show highly significant differences among inter-year slopes, we must accept that cross-scale interactions have occurred. Beyond any random behavior, it seems quite possible that decisions made at smaller scales may have a demonstrable effect on broader scales. Specific research is needed to elucidate key cause-effect relationships among scales. In principle, the possible interaction between intensification factors (for example, FE consumption) and spatial scales is a plausible hypothesis to be tested in the study area.
3658859|Scale-specific patterns of resource distribution on landscapes entrain attributes of resident animal communities such that species body-mass distributions are organized into distinct aggregations. Species within each aggregation respond to resources over the same range of scale. This discontinuous pattern has predictive power: invasive species and extinct or declining species in landscapes subject to human transformation tend to be located at the edge of body-mass aggregations (P < 0.01), which may be transition zones between distinct ranges of scale. Location at scale breaks affords species great opportunity, but also potential crisis.
41505897|Spatial heterogeneity in soils is often characterized by the presence of resource-enriched patches ranging in size from a single shrub to wooded thickets. If the patches persist long enough, the primary constraint on production may transition from one limiting environmental factor to another. Tree islands that are scattered throughout the Florida Everglades basin comprise nutrient-enriched patches, or resource islands, in P-limited oligotrophic marshes. We used principal component analysis and multiple regressions to characterize the belowground environment (soil, hydrology) of one type of tree island, hardwood hammocks, and examined its relationship with the three structural variables (basal area, biomass, and canopy height) indicative of site productivity. Hardwood hammocks in the southern Everglades grow on two distinct soil types. The first, consisting of shallow, organic, relatively low-P soils, is common in the seasonally flooded Marl Prairie landscape. In contrast, hammocks on islands embedded in long hydroperiod marsh have deeper, alkaline, mineral soils with extremely high p concentrations. However, this edaphic variation does not translate simply into differences in forest structure and production. Relative water depth was unrelated to all measures of forest structure and so was soil P, but the non-carbonate component of the mineral soil fraction exhibited a strong positive relationship with canopy height. The development of P-enriched forest resource islands in the Everglades marsh is accompanied by the buildup of a mineral soil; however, limitations on growth in mature islands appear to differ substantively from those that dominate incipient stages in the transformation from marsh to forest.
3658671|Multinomial logistic models of land use/land cover in montane Costa Rica and landscape pattern analysis showed that relative to agriculture, secondary forest occurred closer to old-growth forest, further from roads, in forest reserves, and at higher elevations. Collinearity between explanatory variables yielded simple multivariate models; proportion of surrounding old growth predicted secondary forest most accurately. An old-growth matrix [mean patch size (MPS) 24.5 ha], located mainly within protected areas, dominated elevations greater than 2500 m. A matrix of agriculture (MPS 23.5 ha), with smaller patches (approximately 9 ha) of secondary forest and old growth, dominated elevations from 1500 to 2500 m. Combining secondary forest with old growth decreased forest patch number and increased MPS from 7.3 to 37.1 ha. I concluded that: (a) secondary forest pattern is nonrandom, so ancillary data will aid its mapping with satellite imagery. The variables elevation, agriculture distance, road distance, and population density distinguished secondary forest from old growth with 74% accuracy; (b) socioeconomic and biological forces probably interact to create these secondary forest patterns; and (c) the strong association between secondary forest and old growth supports the concept that tropical forest recovery depends on the landscape structure of remnant forest.
40603416|Dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) has recently been recognized as an important component of terrestrial N cycling, especially under N-limited conditions; however, the effect of increased atmospheric N deposition on DON production and loss from forest soils remains controversial. Here we report DON and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) losses from forest soils receiving very high longterm ambient atmospheric N deposition with or without additional experimental N inputs, to investigate DON biogeochemistry under N-saturated conditions. We studied an old-growth forest, a young pine forest, and a young mixed pine/broadleaf forest in subtropical southern China. All three forests have previously been shown to have high nitrate (NO207B2083) leaching losses, with the highest loss found in the old-growth forest. We hypothesized that DON leaching loss would be forest specific and that the strongest response to experimental N input would be in the N-saturated old-growth forest. Our results showed that under ambient deposition (35-50 kg N ha207B2071 y207B2071 as throughfall input), DON leaching below the major rooting zone in all three forests was high (6.5-16.9 kg N ha207B2071 y207B2071).DON leaching increased 35-162% following 2.5 years of experimental input of 50-150 kg N ha207B2071 y207B2071.The fertilizer-driven increase of DON leaching comprised 4-17% of the added N. A concurrent increase in DOC loss was observed only in the pine forest, even though DOC: DON ratios declined in all three forests. Our data showed that DON accounted for 23-38% of total dissolved N in leaching, highlighting that DON could be a significant pathway of N loss from forests moving toward N saturation. The most pronounced N treatment effect on DON fluxes was not found in the old-growth forest that had the highest DON loss under ambient conditions. DON leaching was highly correlated with NO207B2083leaching in all three forests. We hypothesize that abiotic incorporation of excess NO207B2083(through chemically reactive NO207B2082) into soil organic matter and the consequent production of N-enriched dissolved organic matter is a major mechanism for the consistent and large DON loss in the N-saturated subtropical forests of southern China.
3659069|In the context of ecosystem change and significant sociocultural, political, and institutional complexity, ecosystem managers and scientists (natural and social) need to be sensitive to processes of knowledge construction and legitimization and to the influence that explanations, or "narratives," of change and complexity have on the policy process. Using the Banawa-Marawola uplands of Central Sulawesi, Indonesia, as an example, this review shows how narratives of change and complexity linking the subsistence agroecological practices of upland communities, deforestation, and biodiversity loss, and the policy interventions that result, emerge within several institutionalized and embedded perspectives, including (a) an entrenched political and administrative discourse on modernization and development in Indonesia, (b) a subsequent emphasis on the culturalization or civilization of upland groups considered backward or primitive, and (c) linear or equilibrium explanations of upland change linking population growth and environmental decline. As this review suggests, integrative analyses require historically sensitive frameworks that take into account the sociocultural, politicoinstitutional, and ecological dimensions of change and complexity. Such frameworks are more likely to succeed in challenging the stabilizing assumptions about the role of local people in ecosystem modification, particularly in regions where there is a long history of nature-society interaction.
23501445|One of the many ecological processes expected to undergo alteration due to global change is the decomposition of organic matter, with little known concerning the effects that changing disturbance regimes may have. Fire, a critical process in many habitats, is expected to become more common. We measured the decomposition rates of four grass species that differed in litter quality, investigating them under different fire regimes across a savanna rainfall gradient in South Africa. We also collected data on the abundance and activity of fungus-growing termites and recorded measurements of temperature and canopy cover. Overall, decomposition rate followed global models, increasing under warmer and wetter conditions. Litter quality was also significant with higher quality grasses decomposing faster; however, this effect was less pronounced than expected. Fire regimes did not have a consistent effect on decomposition rate along the rainfall gradient. In the most arid savanna type examined, fire had no effect, whereas in the intermediate rainfall savanna burning increased decomposition rate under higher levels of fungus-growing termite activity. In the wetter savannas, fire slowed decomposition, possibly through modification of vegetation structure and potential effects on other invertebrates. Our results demonstrate that grass decomposition in African savannas varies significantly along precipitation gradients, with different factors becoming influential in different habitats. Importantly, we demonstrate that fire does not always act to slow decomposition and that it interacts with other factors to influence the process. These findings have important implications for decomposition in the light of global change models that predict wetter climates and a higher frequency of fires for southern African savannas.
41505991|Energy (carbon) flows and element cycling are fundamental, interlinked principles explaining ecosystem processes. The element balance in components, interactions and processes in ecosystems (ecological stoichiometry; ES) has been used to study trophic dynamics and element cycling. This study extends ES beyond its usual limits of C, N, and P and examines the distribution and transfer of 48 elements in 16 components of a coastal ecosystem, using empirical and modeling approaches. Major differences in elemental composition were demonstrated between abiotic and biotic compartments and trophic levels due to differences in taxonomy and ecological function. Mass balance modeling for each element, based on carbon fluxes and element: C ratios, was satisfactory for 92.5% of all element-compartment combinations despite the complexity of the ecosystem model. Model imbalances could mostly be explained by ecological processes, such as increased element uptake during the spring algal bloom. Energy flows in ecosystems can thus realistically estimate element transfer in the environment, as modeled uptake is constrained by metabolic rates and elements available. The dataset also allowed us to examine one of the key concepts of ES, homeostasis, for more elements than is normally possible. The relative concentrations of elements in organisms compared to their resources did not provide support for the theory that autotrophs show weak homeostasis and showed that the strength of homeostasis by consumers depends on the type of element (for example, macroelement, trace element). Largescale, multi-element ecosystem studies are essential to evaluate and advance the framework of ES and the importance of ecological processes.
23501487|Treeline represents not only an important physiognomic boundary but also an important transition between disjunct mesoclimates and environmental limitations on establishment of tree species. The circumboreal treeline is controlled by some still to be understood physiological mechanism dependent on air temperatures, though younger life stages are increasingly influenced by numerous other biotic and abiotic factors at finer spatial and temporal scales. The goal of this study was to evaluate environmental and reproductive characteristics across treeline around Churchill, Manitoba, and to determine which factors are most important for successful seedling establishment by tamarack, white spruce and black spruce. We examined mid-winter snowpack, soil characteristics, seed viability, seedling establishment, and dominant vegetation at sites within forest and at treeline. Growing season was longer at treeline due to less snow accumulation, though soil temperatures were more variable throughout the year when compared with forest. Conifer seed germination was greater than 88% for most of the region and total seedling density was relatively consistent between sites. Seedlings were negatively associated with other plants within the forest, but low stature vegetation seemed to facilitate establishment at treeline. The associations between seedling establishment and habitat availability observed at several sites suggest that treeline advance in the Churchill area could be contingent on the facilitative effects of plants at and beyond treeline. The results of this study support the premise that fine-scale biotic and abiotic patterns and processes such as snowpack and facilitation by neighboring vegetation certainly cannot be overlooked in analyses of patterns at treeline in a changing Subarctic.
40792949|Both climate warming and atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition are predicted to alter plant productivity and species composition over the next century. However, the extent to which their effects may interact is unclear. For example, over winter, the effects of warming on soil freezing dynamics may promote ecosystem N losses, thereby limiting increases in productivity in response to warming, yet these losses may be compensated for by increased N deposition. We measured plant production and species composition in response to warming (winter-only or year-round) and N addition in a temperate old field. We used shoot allometric relationships to estimate aboveground production non-destructively and sampled root biomass destructively throughout two growing seasons. We also used spectral data (normalized difference vegetation indexNDVI) to examine the treatment effects on the timing of plant green-up and senescence. In 2007, which featured an exceptionally dry summer, there were no treatment effects on plant growth. However, in 2008, warming (both winter-only and year-round) and  addition combined approximately doubled aboveground productivity, and these effects were additive. Warming increased root biomass, but no N effect was evident. Conversely, N addition increased NDVI, but NDVI was unresponsive to warming. Overall, our results do not support the hypothesis that warming-induced changes to soil freezing dynamics limit plant productivity in our system. On the contrary, they demonstrate that winter warming alone can increase primary productivity to the same extent as year-round warming, and that this effect may interact very strongly with interannual variation in precipitation.
3658947| There is growing concern that available base cation pools in soil are declining in eastern North America and that some forests are approaching nitrogen (N) saturation due to the combined effects of acid deposition and harvesting. To assess these concerns, elemental mass balances for calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), and N were conducted over a 17-year period in a representative mixed hardwood forest (HP4) in the Muskoka-Haliburton region in central Ontario, Canada. On average, 76% of the N measured in bulk deposition, which is a conservative estimate of total N deposition, was retained in HP4, with tree uptake accounting for over half of the retained N. Year-to-year variations in annual NO
40603660|A Holocene sediment sequence from Lake Seukokjaure, a subarctic lake at tree-line in northern Sweden, was analyzed to assess major changes in the structure and functioning of the aquatic ecosystem in response to climate change and tree-line dynamics. The compiled multi-proxy data, including sedimentary pigments, diatoms, chironomids, pollen, biogenic silica (BSi), carbon (C), nitrogen (N) elemental and stableisotope records, and total lake-water organic carbon (TOC) concentration inferred from near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), suggest that the Holocene development of Lake Seukokjaure was closely coupled to changes in terrestrial vegetation with associated soil development of the catchment, input of allochthonous organic carbon, and changes in the light regime of the lake. A relatively productive state just after dglaciation around 9700 to 7800 cal years BP was followed by a slight long-term decrease in primary production. The onset of the local tree-line retreat around 3200 cal years BP was accompanied by more diverse and altered chironomid and diatom assemblages and indications of destabilized soils in the catchment by an increase in variability and absolute values of C. An abrupt drop in the C/N ratio around 1750 cal years BP was coupled to changes in the internal lake structure, in combination with changes in light and nutrient conditions, resulting in a shift in the phototrophic community from diatom dominance to increased influence of chlorophytes, likely dominated by an aquatic moss community. Thus, this study emphasizes the importance of indirect effects of climate change on tree-line lake ecosystems and complex interactions of in-lake processes during the Holocene.
40928218|Associations among the few tree species in the North American boreal landscape are the result of complex interactions between climate, biota, and historical disturbances during the Holocene. The closed-crown boreal forest of eastern North America is subdivided into two ecological regions having distinct tree species associations; the balsam fir zone and the black spruce zone, south and north of 49N, respectively. Subalpine old-growth stands dominated by trees species typical of the balsam fir forest flora (either balsam fir or white spruce) are found on high plateaus, some of which are isolated within the black spruce zone. Here we identified the ecological processes responsible for the distinct forest associations in the subalpine belt across the eastern boreal landscape. Extensive radiocarbon dating, species composition, and size structure analyses indicated contrasted origin and dynamics of the subalpine forests between the two ecological regions. In the black spruce zone, the subalpine belt is a mosaic of post-fire white spruce or balsam fir stands coexisting at similar elevation on the high plateaus. With increasing time without wildfire, the subalpine forests become structurally similar to the balsam fir forest of the fir zone. These results concur with the hypothesis that the subalpine forests of this area are protected remnants of an historical northern expansion of the fir zone. Its replacement by the fire-prone black spruce forest flora was caused by recurrent fires. In the subalpine belt of the fir zone, no fire was recorded for several millennia. Harsh climate at high altitude is the primary factor explaining white spruce dominance over balsam fir forming a distinct subalpine white spruce belt above the balsam fir dominated forest.
3658702|Stream ecosystems consist of several subsystems that are spatially distributed concentrically, analogous to the elements of a simple telescope. Subsystems include the central surface stream, vertically and laterally arrayed saturated sediments (hyporheic and parafluvial zones), and the most distal element, the riparian zone. These zones are hydrologically connected; thus water and its dissolved and suspended load move through all of these subsystems as it flows downstream. In any given subsystem, chemical transformations result in a change in the quantity of materials in transport. Processing length is the length of subsystem required to "process" an amount of substrate equal to advective input. Long processing lengths reflect low rates of material cycling. Processing length provides the length dimension of each cylindrical element of the telescope and is specific to subsystem (for example, the surface stream), substrate (for instance, nitrate), and process (denitrification, for example). Disturbance causes processing length to increase. Processing length decreases during succession following disturbance. The whole stream-corridor ecosystem consists of several nested cylindrical elements that extend and retract, much as would a telescope, in response to disturbance regime. This telescoping ecosystem model (TEM) can improve understanding of material retention in running water systems; that is, their "nutrient filtration" capacity. We hypothesize that disturbance by flooding alters this capacity in proportion to both intensity of disturbance and to the relative effect of disturbance on each subsystem. We would expect more distal subsystems (for example, the riparian zone) to show the highest resistance to floods. In contrast, we predict that postflood recovery of functions such as material processing (that is, resilience) will be highest in central elements and decrease laterally. Resistance and resilience of subsystems are thus both inversely correlated and spatially separated. We further hypothesize that cross-linkages between adjacent subsystems will enhance resilience of the system as a whole. Whole-ecosystem retention, transformation, and transport are thus viewed as a function of subsystem extent, lateral and vertical linkage, and disturbance regime.
27823673|The effects of immediately adjacent agricultural fertilization on nitrogen (N) at upland forest edges have not been previously studied. Our objective was to determine whether N from fertilized agriculture enters northern Idaho forest edges and significantly impacts their N status. We stratified 27 forest edge sampling sites by the N fertilization history of the adjacent land: current, historical, and never. We measured N stable isotopes (15N), N concentration (%N), and carbon-to-nitrogen (C/N) ratios of conifer tree and deciduous shrub foliage, shrub roots, and bulk soil, as well as soil available N. Conifer foliage 15N and %N, shrub root 15N, and bulk soil N were greater and soil C/N ratios lower (P < 0.05) at forest edges than interiors, regardless of adjacent fertilization history. For shrub foliage and bulk soil 15N, shrub root %N and C/N ratios, and soil nitrate, significant edgeinterior differences were limited to forests bordering lands that had been fertilized currently or historically. Foliage and soil 15N were most enriched at forest edges bordering currently fertilized agriculture, suggesting that these forests are receiving N fertilizer inputs. Shrub root %N was greater at forest edges bordering currently fertilized agriculture than at those bordering grasslands that had never been fertilized (P = 0.01). Elevated N at forest edges may increase vegetation growth, as well as susceptibility to disease and insects. The higher N we found at forest edges bordering agriculture may also be found elsewhere, given similar agricultural practices in other regions and the prevalence of forest fragmentation.
23501295|The frequency and magnitude of drought is expected to increase in the US Great Plains under future climate regimes. Although semiarid systems are considered highly resistant to water limitation, novel drought events could alter linkages among biogeochemical processes, and result in new feedbacks that influence the timescale of ecosystem recovery. We examined changes in carbon and nitrogen cycling in the last 2 years of an 11-year drought manipulation in the shortgrass steppe, and under the first 2 years of recovery from drought. We measured plant production, plant tissue chemistry, soil trace gas flux, and soil inorganic nitrogen dynamics to test the extent that this magnitude of drought altered carbon and nitrogen fluxes and how these changes affected post-drought dynamics. We found that soil inorganic nitrogen was up to five times higher under severe drought than under control conditions, but that this nitrogen may not have been accessible to plants and microbial communities during drought due to diffusion limitations. Drought plots had higher N 2 O flux when they received equal rainfall pulses, showing that this accumulated N may be vulnerable to loss. In addition, plants in drought plots had higher tissue nitrogen for 2 years following drought. These results show that decadal-length droughts that may occur under future precipitation regimes are likely to alter ecosystem properties through interactions among precipitation, vegetation, and N cycling. Shifts in plant N, vulnerability of nitrogen to loss, and rainfall use efficiency that we observed are likely to affect the recovery time of semiarid systems subject to droughts of this magnitude.
40296312|Agricultural areas are declining in many areas of the world, often because socio-economic and political changes make agriculture less profitable. The transition from centralized to market-oriented economies in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union after 1989 represented major economic and political changes, yet the resulting rates and spatial pattern of post-socialist farmland abandonment remain largely unknown. Remote sensing offers unique opportunities to map farmland abandonment, but automated assessments are challenging because phenology and crop types often vary substantially. We developed a change detection method based on support vector machines (SVM) to map farmland abandonment in the border triangle of Poland, Slovakia, and Ukraine in the Carpathians from Landsat TM/ETM+ images from 1986, 1988, and 2000. Our SVM-based approach yielded an accurate change map (overall accuracy = 90.9%; kappa = 0.82), underpinning the potential of SVM to map complex land-use change processes such as farmland abandonment. Farmland abandonment was widespread in the study area (16.1% of the farmland used in socialist times), likely due to decreasing profitability of agriculture after 1989. We also found substantial differences in abandonment among the countries (13.9% in Poland, 20.7% in Slovakia, and 13.3% in Ukraine), and between previously collectivized farmland and farmland that remained private during socialism in Poland. These differences are likely due to differences in socialist land ownership patterns, post-socialist land reform strategies, and rural population density.
3658936|To elucidate the impact of high nitrogen (N) deposition on intact bog vegetation, as affected by phosphorus (P) availability, we conducted a 4-year fertilization experiment with N and P at six sites, one with moderate N deposition and five with high N deposition. During the growing season, N
25053799|This study examines the effect of four tree species on nitrogen (N) retention within forested catchments of the Catskill Mountains, New York (NY). We conducted a 300-day
3658889|Partial pressure (p CO
40792952|Nitrogen (N) deposition and land management practices can have profound impacts on the structure and functioning of alpine ecosystems occupying headwaters of major river systems. Such impacts have the potential to result in loss of  to surface waters and acidification, both of which could have serious consequences for water quality and downstream habitats. We present results from a 6-year study of Calluna-dominated alpine heathland in Scotland, designed to assess the interactive effects of  addition (0 and 50 kg N ha y), simulated accidental fire and grazing on soil solution chemistry. Both N addition and to a lesser extent burning had significant effects on soil solution chemistry, whereas grazing had no significant impact. Soil solution nitrate (NO) and ammonium (NH) concentration showed a rapid response to  addition and  addition also resulted in acidification of soil solution. A 'flush' of base cations, which normally buffer soil from the acid effects of deposited N, accompanied the excess  released from the soil to soil solution. The  treatment had no effect on dissolved organic carbon (DOC), however, concentrations were significantly (14%) lower at the burned plots. In addition to treatment effects, temporal analysis of data from control plots demonstrated that soil solution chemistry was influenced by extremes in weather conditions. Peak NO concentrations were observed in soil solution following the cold winter of 2000-2001 when there were frequent freeze/thaw events. A large pulse of base cations was lost from the soil following the dry year of 2003. These weather-induced responses potentially exacerbate the treatment effects observed in this study.
3658638|We built empirical models to estimate the effects of land cover on stream ecosystems in the mid-Atlantic region (USA) and to evaluate the spatial scales over which such models are most effective. Predictive variables included land cover in the watershed, in the streamside corridor, and near the study site, and the number and location of dams and point sources in the watershed. Response variables were annual nitrate flux; species richness of fish, benthic macroinvertebrates, and aquatic plants; and cover of aquatic plants and riparian vegetation. All data were taken from publicly available databases, mostly over the Internet. Land cover was significantly correlated with all ecological response variables. Modeled R
40296304|The future capacity of forest ecosystems to sequester atmospheric carbon is likely to be influenced by CO-mediated shifts in nutrient cycling through changes in litter chemistry, and by interactions with pollutants like O. We evaluated the independent and interactive effects of elevated CO (560 1 1) and O (55 nl 11) on leaf litter decomposition in trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) and paper birch (Betula papyrifera) at the Aspen free air CO enrichment (FACE) site (Wisconsin, USA). Fumigation treatments consisted of replicated ambient, +CO, +O, and +CO +O FACE rings. We followed mass loss and litter chemistry over 23 months, using reciprocally transplanted litterbags to separate substrate quality from environment effects. Aspen decayed more slowly than birch across all treatment conditions, and changes in decomposition dynamics of both species were driven by shifts in substrate quality rather than by fumigation environment. Aspen litter produced under elevated CO decayed more slowly than litter produced under ambient CO, and this effect was exacerbated by elevated O. Similarly, birch litter produced under elevated CO also decayed more slowly than litter produced under ambient CO. In contrast to results for aspen, however, elevated O accelerated birch decay under ambient CO, but decelerated decay under enriched CO. Changes in decomposition rates (k-values) were due to CO-and O-mediated shifts in litter quality, particularly levels of carbohydrates, nitrogen, and tannins. These results suggest that in early-successional forests of the future, elevated concentrations of CO will likely reduce leaf litter decomposition, although the magnitude of effect will vary among species and in response to interactions with tropospheric O.
27823676|Large inputs of atmospheric N from dry deposition accumulate on vegetation and soil surfaces of southern Californian chaparral and coastal sage scrub (CSS) ecosystems during the late-summer and early-fall and become available as a pulse following winter rainfall; however, the fate of this dry season atmospheric N addition is unknown. To assess the potential for dry season atmospheric N inputs to be incorporated into soil and/or vegetation N pools, an in situ N addition experiment was initiated in a post-fire chaparral and a mature CSS stand where 10  10 m plots were exposed to either ambient N deposition (control) or ambient +50 kg N ha1 (added N) added as NH4NO3 during a single application in October 2003. After 1 year of N addition, plots exposed to added N had significantly higher accumulation of extractable inorganic N (NH4N + NO3N) on ion exchange resins deployed in the 010 cm mineral soil layer and higher soil extractable N in the subsurface (3040 cm) mineral soil than plots exposed to ambient N. Chaparral and CSS shrubs exposed to added N also exhibited a significant increase in tissue N concentration and a decline in the tissue C:N ratio, and added N significantly altered the shrub tissue 15N natural abundance. Leaching of inorganic N to 1 m below the soil surface was on average 23 times higher in the added N plots, but large within treatment variability cause these differences to be statistically insignificant. Although a large fraction of the added N could not be accounted for in the shrub and soil N pools investigated, these observations suggest that dry season N inputs can significantly and rapidly alter N availability and shrub tissue chemistry in Mediterranean-type chaparral and CSS shrublands of southern California.
23328057|Increased fire activity within boreal forests could affect global terrestrial carbon (C) stocks by decreasing stand age or altering tree recruitment, leading to patterns of forest regrowth that differ from those of pre-fire stands. To improve our understanding of post-fire C accumulation patterns within boreal forests, we evaluated above- and belowground C pools within 17 Cajander larch (Larix cajanderi) stands of northeastern Siberia that varied in both years since fire and stand density. Early-successional stands (<20-year old) exhibited low larch recruitment, and consequently, low density, aboveground larch biomass, and aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP tree ). Mid-successional stands (21- to 70-year old) were even-aged with considerable variability in stand density. High-density mid-successional stands had 21 times faster rates of ANPP tree than low-density stands (252 vs. 12 g C m -2 y -1 ) and 26 times more C in aboveground larch biomass (2,186 vs. 85 g C m -2 ). Density had little effect on total soil C pools. During late-succession (>70-year old), aboveground larch biomass, ANPP tree , and soil organic layer C pools increased with stand age. These stands were low density and multi-aged, containing both mature trees and new recruits. The rapid accumulation of aboveground larch biomass in high-density, mid-successional stands allowed them to obtain C stocks similar to those in much older low-density stands (8,000 g C m -2 ). If fire frequency increases without altering stand density, landscape-level C storage could decline, but if larch density also increases, large aboveground C pools within high-density stands could compensate for a shorter successional cycle.
23253735|Atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition is altering biogeochemical cycling in forests and interconnected lakes of the northeastern US, and may shift nutrient limitation from N toward other essential elements, such as phosphorus (P). Whether this shift is occurring relative to N deposition gradients across the northeastern US has not been investigated. We used datasets for the northeastern US and the Adirondack sub-region to evaluate whether P limitation is increasing where N deposition is high at two geographic scales, based on N:P mass ratios. Using a model-selection approach, we determined that foliar N for dominant tree species and lake dissolved inorganic N (DIN) increased coincident with increasing N deposition, independent of relationships between foliar N or lake DIN and precipitation or temperature. Foliar P also increased with N deposition across the northeastern US for seven of eight deciduous species, but changed less across the Adirondacks. Foliar N:P therefore declined at the highest levels of N deposition for most deciduous species across the region (remaining nearly constant for most conifers and increasing only for black cherry and hemlock), but increased across all species in the Adirondacks. Ratios between DIN and total P (DIN:TP) in lakes were unrelated to N deposition regionally but increased across the Adirondacks. Thus, nutrient limitation patterns shifted from N toward P for dominant trees, and further toward P for predominantly P-limited lakes, at the sub-regional but not regional scale. For the northeastern US overall, accumulated N deposition may be insufficient to drive nutrient limitation from N toward P; alternatively, elements other than P (for example, calcium, magnesium) may become limiting as N accumulates. The consistent Adirondack foliar and lake response could provide early indication of shifts toward P limitation within the northeastern US, and together with regional patterns, suggests that foliar chemistry could be a predictor of lake chemistry in the context of N deposition across the region.
40792953|A large proportion of northern peatlands consists of Sphagnum-dominated ombrotrophic bogs. In these bogs, peat mosses (Sphagnum) and vascular plants occur in an apparent stable equilibrium, thereby sustaining the carbon sink function of the bog ecosystem. How global warming and increased nitrogen (N) deposition will affect the species composition in bog vegetation is still unclear. We performed a transplantation experiment in which mesocosms with intact vegetation were transplanted southward from north Sweden to northeast Germany along a transect of four bog sites, in which both temperature and N deposition increased. In addition, we monitored undisturbed vegetation in control plots at the four sites of the latitudinal gradient. Four growing seasons after transplantation, ericaceous dwarf shrubs had become much more abundant when transplanted to the warmest site which also had highest N deposition. As a result ericoid aboveground biomass in the transplanted mesocosms increased most at the southernmost site, this site also had highest ericoid biomass in the undisturbed vegetation. The two dominant Sphagnum species showed opposing responses when transplanted southward; Sphagnum balticum height increment decreased, whereas S. fuscum height increment increased when transplanted southward. Sphagnum production did not differ significantly among the transplanted mesocosms, but was lowest in the southernmost control plots. The dwarf shrub expansion and increased N concentrations in plant tissues we observed, point in the direction of a positive feedback toward vascular plant-dominance suppressing peat-forming Sphagnum in the long term. However, our data also indicate that precipitation and phosphorus availability influence the competitive balance between Sphagnum, dwarf shrubs and graminoids.
40792948|In Central-Western Spain, forests and woodlands composed of Quercus sp. support outstanding levels of biodiversity, but there is increasing concern about their long-term persistence due to a lack of regeneration. We hypothesize that this regenerative lack is operating on a large geographic scale; that there are differences in the abundance of regeneration between three oak species; that oak regeneration is governed mainly by forest management and structure; and that shrubs act as important physical protectors of seedlings and saplings. We analyzed whether densities of oak seedlings and saplings in several size classes were related to stand-structure, understory, and physiographic variables potentially affecting regeneration. Data collected at a regional level (1 km  1 km grid) by the Spanish Forest Inventory were evaluated from 2,816 plots. Results revealed that regeneration failure was common for all size categories, from small seedlings to large saplings, and for the three oak species studied, especially the evergreens. Of the Quercus ilex, Q. suber, and Q. pyrenaica plots studied, 49%, 62%, and 20% were lacking any small seedlings, and 82%, 96%, and 56% did not have any large saplings, respectively. Regeneration was positively correlated with tree cover and density, especially of small and medium-sized trees, and negatively correlated with the presence of large trees, indicating that regeneration failure is mostly associated with more open, uniform, and /or aged woodlands. Regeneration densities of Q. ilex and Q. suber were positively correlated with all understory variables, suggesting that the presence of pioneer shrubs represent a major safe site for early tree recruitment, independent from specific shrub species.
23328058|Climate change may alter the terrestrial ecosystem carbon balance in the Arctic, and previous studies have emphasized the importance of cold season gas exchange when considering the annual carbon balance. Here, we examined gross ecosystem production (GEP), ecosystem respiration (R eco ) and net ecosystem exchange (NEE) during autumn at a high arctic dry open heath, over a period where air temperatures decreased from +9.8 to -16.5C. GEP declined by 95100% during autumn but GEP significantly different from 0 was measured on October 8 despite sub-zero temperatures. R eco declined by 90% and dominated NEE throughout the study as the ecosystem on all measurement days was a source of atmospheric CO 2 . We estimated net September carbon losses (NEE) to be 17 g CO 2 m -2 , emphasizing the importance of autumn in relation to annual carbon budgets. The study site has been subjected to 14 summers of water addition, and occasional pulses of nitrogen (N) addition in a fully factorial design. N addition enhanced GEP up to 17-fold during September, although there was no effect in October when GEP was very low. Summer water addition decreased autumn R eco by up to 25%. Both N amendment and water addition decreased carbon loss, that is, increased NEE; N amendment increased NEE on all dates by 1364% whereas water addition increased NEE by 2054% late in September and onward, demonstrating the importance of nutrient and water availability on carbon balance in high arctic tundra, also during the autumn freeze-in.
41505952|Many animals move in response to climatic variations, with responses of highly mobile species such as waterbirds being especially dynamic. Climatic patterns are commonly quantified through static aggregation of meteorological variables, yet static analyses may only poorly relate to dynamic ecological responses. A technique is developed here to examine relationships between ecological responses and climatic dynamics through quantifying the dynamic structure of large-scale weather systems as they propagate through time and space. Analyses of localized climatic dynamics permit insight into the dependence of ecosystem responses not just upon spatial and temporal scales, but also upon frequencies and prevailing directions, of climatic variation. The technique is applied to the single variable of the aggregate abundance of all species of waterbirds counted in the annual Eastern Australian Aerial Waterbird Survey. The strongest climatic influence on avian abundance is shown to be the coherence of large-scale precipitation systems with spectral frequencies of around 15 days that propagate south-east into the interior of the continent from the tropical north. Directly aggregated rainfall presents a secondary influence. These comprehensively integrative analyses of localized weather are ultimately able to explain over 75% of the inter-annual variance in the aggregate abundance of over 90 species of waterbirds. These results provide a powerful demonstration of the techniques developed here, and reveal the profound extent to which environmental variability structures Australian ecosystems.
40928245|Riparian ecosystems can harbor great diversity and provide important ecological functions such as improving water quality. The impact of eutrophication on riparian ecosystems, however, is unclear. We conducted a mesocosm experiment to study the effects of nutrient loading on riparian ecosystems. We specifically asked whether the source of nutrients in the riparian zone affects the complex interactions that occur between surface water and adjacent wetlands. We also studied litter decomposition in the wetland component of the mesocosms, because litter accumulation in fens is assumed to control succession toward floating mats. Each mesocosm consisted of an upland component, referred to as the bank, and a water compartment. The bank and water compartments were planted with typical riparian zone and open water fen species prior to the addition of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in different combinations to either the bank or the surface water. Nutrient addition (mainly P) resulted in increased plant production and higher expansion rates of plants on the bank and in the water. There were also clear interactions in plant responses between the bank and water. Only eutrophic species increased shoot densities after fertilization. Nutrient addition further resulted in higher litter production, especially on the banks, and stimulated decomposition. Both the plant responses and the litter experiment indicated that eutrophication would accelerate succession to floating mats. Such floating fen mats are not likely to have the typical species-rich combination of desirable species; however, as our results suggest that they would be dominated by a few eutrophic species.
25053805|This study evaluated the hydrologic sensitivity of vernal pool ecosystems in the Central Valley of California to climatic changes projected for 2100. A vernal pool water-balance model was used to evaluate rain-fed vernal pools at four locations under future conditions projected by two contrasting global climate models. The potential for change in the duration of continuous inundation, frequency of reproductively suitable inundation events, and the seasonal distribution of inundation was quantified. The potential impact of hydrologic changes varied by species and by location. Three scales of response were identified: (a) At the regional scale, pools in the middle of the Central Valley near Merced were the most responsive to climatic changes. (b) At the local scale, smaller, shallower pools had the greatest potential to change the distribution of reproductively suitable habitat available to branchiopods. (c) At the individual pool scale, changes in precipitation will dominate changes in temperature, resulting in relatively linear responses in the duration of inundation. The ecological impact of these changes will be determined by a balance between the increasing suitability of vernal pools for branchiopod predators and the hydrologic improvement of currently marginal habitats.
3659052|Managed ecosystems are complex, dynamic systems with spatially varying inputs and outputs that are the result of interrelated physical, biological, and human decision-making processes. To gain an adequate understanding of these systems and predict their behavior, we believe that it is necessary to move beyond stylized theoretical models and loosely coupled disciplinary simulation models to what we describe as "fully integrated models." Herein we present a conceptual framework for a more integrated approach to the study of managed ecosystems using the example of agricultural ecosystems. We then propose the implementation of a research agenda that fosters coordinated disciplinary research aimed at a better understanding and quantification of linkages across disciplinary models. Key research issues include thee effects of spatial scale, the assessment of uncertainty in coupled models, and methods for collecting and analyzing spatially referenced data.
41413043|Soil microorganisms are key drivers of terrestrial biogeochemical cycles, yet it is still unclear how variations in soil microbial community composition influence many ecosystem processes. We investigated how shifts in bacterial community composition and diversity resulting from differences in carbon (C) availability affect organic matter decomposition by conducting an in situ litter manipulation experiment in a tropical rain forest in Costa Rica. We used bar-coded pyrosequencing to characterize soil bacterial community composition in litter manipulation plots and performed a series of laboratory incubations to test the potential functional significance of community shifts on organic matter decomposition. Despite clear effects of the litter manipulation on soil bacterial community composition, the treatments had mixed effects on microbial community function. Distinct communities varied in their ability to decompose a wide range of C compounds, and functional differences were related to both the relative abundance of the two most abundant bacterial sub-phyla (Acidobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria) and to variations in bacterial alphadiversity. However, distinct communities did not differ in their ability to decompose native dissolved organic matter (DOM) substrates that varied in quality and quantity. Our results show that although resource-driven shifts in soil bacterial community composition have the potential to influence decomposition of specific C substrates, those differences may not translate to differences in DOM decomposition rates in situ. Taken together, our results suggest that soil bacterial communities may be either functionally dissimilar or equivalent during decomposition depending on the nature of the organic matter being decomposed.
25470363|Tree presence in semiarid ecosystems is generally constrained by insufficient annual rainfall. However, in semiarid chile, rainforest patches dominated by Aextoxicon punctatum are unexpectedly found on coastal mountaintops (450-600 m) at 30S, surrounded by a xerophytic vegetation matrix that receives only 147 mm of annual precipitation. It has been proposed that these forests persist as a result of fog-water inputs. If so, then because fog-water deposition is spatially heterogeneous and shows strong edge effects, the potential environmental gradient created by the direction of fog input should determine forest structure and tree regeneration patterns. To investigate this hypothesis, we measured fog inputs, forest structural attributes (age and size distribution, basal area, and coarse woody debris), and tree regeneration in three different habitats: the windward edges (WE), leeward edges (LE), and the interior (center) of rainforest patches varying in area from 0.2 to 22 ha. Mean fog-water input was estimated from passive collectors over 1 year in WE and LE of patches. Tree regeneration was greater in the WE and forest interior (FI) and decreased toward the LE of patches, following a marked pattern of decline in fog inputs. Older trees and coarse woody debris were concentrated in the FI and LE of patches. Tree regeneration and patch structure appear to be largely controlled by fog-input direction and edge effects. We propose that forest patches may be slowly growing toward the incoming fog edge, while dying at the opposite edge.
3658904|Land-cover changes in the Choptank basin were estimated for 1665-1820 by using historical socioeconomic data and crop-rotation models. Socioeconomic data (human population, output per laborer, and crop yields) were obtained from the literature, whereas crop-rotation models, based on historical records, represented how agriculture was practiced. Model parameters and output were validated with export records, census data, and other historical records, and model errors were estimated to be approximately 5%. This approach indicated a sigmoidal pattern for conversion of primary forest to agricultural land by 1800. The initial time period, 1665-1720, was characterized by low-intensity tobacco and corn cultivation. Due to long fallows, the models indicated that there was little land in crops (approximately 5% of the region), but larger areas of secondary forest occurred on former cropland (approximately 15%). Although primary forest decreased, the initial result in the first 55 years was a low net rate of deforestation and occupation by low-intensity farms. However, after 1720, cropland expanded rapidly due to the use of wheat as a cash crop. From 1720 to 1775, primary and secondary forest rapidly disappeared, increasing agricultural land to 60% of the region. By 1800, approximately 80% was estimated to be converted to agriculture, and little primary forest remained. After 1800, the land needed for crops decreased due to improved management practices and crop yields, and some secondary forest on formerly cleared agricultural sites may have reappeared. We estimate that less than 150 years of European colonization resulted in virtually complete agriculturalization of a primarily forested landscape.
3658839|We compared the biogeochemical cycling of phosphorus (P) in northern hardwood forest plots invaded by exotic earthworms versus adjacent uninvaded reference plots. In three of the six pairs of plots, earthworm invasion resulted in significantly more total P in the upper 12 cm of soil. The finding of increased amounts of unavailable and occluded inorganic P forms in the invaded plots suggests that earthworm activity mobilized unweathered soil particles from deeper layers of the soil, increasing the stocks of total P in surface soils. In two pairs of plots, the earthworm-invaded soils had less total P than the reference soils. In these plots, earthworm activity resulted in augmented rates of P cycling and alteration of the physical structure of the soil that increased loss of P in leaching water, reducing the total amount of P. We hypothesize that the different effects of earthworm invasion on the soil P cycle result from unique characteristics of the ecological groups of earthworms dominating each site. The invaded plots with increased total P were dominated by the anecic species Lumbricus terrestris, a large earthworm that constructs deep, vertical burrows and is effective at moving soil materials from and to deeper layers of the profile. In contrast, the earthworm-invaded plots where the total P in the surface soil decreased were dominated by the epiendogeic species L. rubellus, which feeds and lives in the upper organic layers of the soil. In these plots, earthworms significantly increased the amount of readily exchangeable P in the soil, increasing the loss of this element in leaching water.
3659043|Using Ecopath, a trophic mass-balance modeling framework, we developed six models of a Canadian boreal forest food web centered around snowshoe hares, which have conspicuous 10-year population cycles. Detailed models of four phases of the cycle were parameterized with long-term population data for 12 vertebrate taxa. We also developed five other models that, instead of observed data, used parameter values derived from standard assumptions. Specifically, in the basic model, production was assumed to equal adult mortality, feeding rates were assumed to be allometric, and biomass was assumed to be constant. In the actual production, functional response, and biomass change models, each of these assumed values from the basic model was replaced individually by field data. Finally, constant biomass models included actual production by all species and functional responses of mammalian predators and revealed the proportion of herbivore production used by species at higher trophic levels. By comparing these models, we show that detailed information on densities and demographics was crucial to constructing models that captured dynamic aspects of the food web. These detailed models reinforced an emerging picture of the causes and consequences of the snowshoe hare cycle. The snowshoe hare decline and low phases were coincident with times when per capita production was relatively low and predation pressure high. At these times, ecotrophic efficiencies (EE) suggest there was little production that remained unconsumed by predators. The importance of both production and consumption implies that bottom-up and top-down factors interacted to cause the cycle. EEs of other herbivores (ground squirrels, red squirrels, small mammals, small birds, grouse) were generally low, suggesting weak top-down effects. Predation rates on these "alternative" prey, except ground squirrels, were highest when predators were abundant, not when hares were rare; consequently, any top-down effects reflected predator biomass and were not a function of diet composition or functional responses. Finally, several predators (lynx, coyotes, great-horned owls) showed clear bottom-up regulation, reproducing only when prey exceeded threshold densities. Taken altogether, these results demonstrate that ecosystem models parameterized by population data can describe the dynamics of nonequilibrial systems, but only when detailed information is available for the species modeled.
40603664|Large amounts (36.4 Mg ha or 179 m ha) of buried dead wood were found in overmature (146-204-year-old) black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S. P.) forests in the high boreal region of eastern Canada. Amounts of this size indicate that burial reduces rates of wood decay producing an important component of long-term carbon (C) storage. Radiocarbon-derived ages of black spruce stems buried near the bottom of the organic soil horizon at three old-growth sites were up to 515 years old. Together with information on current stand age, this suggests that the stems have been dead for more than 250 years. Most aboveground dead wood decays or becomes fragmented within about 70 years of tree death in these forests. The presence of old yet well-preserved buried wood suggests that decay rates are greatly reduced when downed dead wood is quickly overgrown by moss. Thus, the nature and type of ground-layer vegetation influences the accumulation of organic matter in these forests. This process of dead wood burial and the resultant addition to a large and long-enduring belowground pool should be considered when estimating dead wood abundance for habitat or forest accounting and cycling.
3659068|This paper describes global changes in forest cover from 1982 to 1999 based on the 8-km Pathfinder Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) data set. The procedure involves the use of a regression tree in predicting percent tree cover for the years 1982-99. Training data are created from high-resolution imagery and used with phenological metrics derived from the annual AVHRR time series. Using the 18 years of estimated tree cover, and based on a thresholding approach, we identified locations where change in tree cover has occurred. The change sites were then compared to a set of high-resolution deforestation analyses to yield area estimates of deforestation and regrowth. Percent tree cover was found to have decreased globally, from the 1980s to 1990s, in contrast to United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) reports of a global increase in forest cover. Latin America and tropical Asia are the two dominant deforestation regions. Paraguay shows the highest rate of forest clearing over the time series, while Indonesia had the greatest increase in deforestation from the 1980s to 1990s. We also suggest that the percent tree-cover maps can be used in standardizing national forest statistics, as an objective means of identifying hot spots of change, and for facilitating ecosystem monitoring.
3658971|Landscapes are strongly shaped by the degree of interaction between pattern and process. This paper examines how ecological memory, the degree to which an ecological process is shaped by its past modifications of a landscape, influences landscape dynamics. I use a simulation model to examine how ecological memory shapes the landscape dynamics produced by the interaction of vegetative regrowth and fire. The model illustrated that increased ecological memory increased the strength and spatial extent of landscape pattern. The extent of these changes depended upon the relative rates of vegetative recovery and fire initiation. When ecological memory is strong, landscape pattern is persistent; pattern tends to be maintained rather than destroyed by fire. The generality of the simulation model suggests that these results may also apply to disturbance processes other than fire. The existence of ecological memory in ecosystems may allow processes to produce ecological pattern that can entrain other ecosystem variables. The methods presented in this paper to analyze pattern in model ecosystems could be used to detect such pattern in actual ecosystems.
25622882|This study quantifies the short-term effects of low-, moderate-, and high-severity fire on carbon pools and fluxes in the Eastern Cascades of Oregon. We surveyed 64 forest stands across four fires that burned 41,000 ha (35%) of the Metolius Watershed in 2002 and 2003, stratifying the landscape by burn severity (oberstory tree mortality), forest type (ponderosa pine [PP] and mixed-conifer [MC]), and prefire biomass. Stand-scale C combustion ranged from 13 to 35% of prefire aboveground C pools (area  weighted mean = 22%). Across the sampled landscape, total estimated pyrogenic C emissions were equivalent to 2.5% of statewide anthropogenic CO emissions from fossil fuel combustion and industrial processes for the same 2-year period. From low- to moderate- to high-severity ponderosa pine stands, average tree basal area mortality was 14, 49, and 100%, with parallel patterns in mixed-conifer stands (29, 58, 96%). Despite this decline in live aboveground C, total net primary productivity (NPP) was only 40% lower in highversus low-severity stands, suggesting strong compensatory effects of non-tree vegetation on C uptake. Dead wood respiratory losses were small relative to total NPP (range: 10-35%), reflecting decomposition lags in this seasonally arid system. Although soil C, soil respiration, and fine root NPP were conserved across severity classes, net ecosystem production (NEP) declined with increasing severity, driven by trends in aboveground NPP. The high variability of C responses across this study underscores the need to account for landscape patterns of burn severity, particularly in regions such as the Pacific Northwest, where non-stand-replacement fire represents a large proportion of annual burned area.
40296380|Studies of restoration ecology are well established for northern peatlands, but at an early stage for tropical peatlands. Extensive peatland areas in Southeast Asia have been degraded through deforestation, drainage and fire, leading to on-and off-site environmental and socio-economic impacts of local to global significance. To address these problems, landscape-scale restoration measures are urgently required. This paper reviews and illustrates, using information from on-going trials in Kalimantan, Indonesia, the current state of knowledge pertaining to (i) land-cover dynamics of degraded peatlands, (ii) vegetation rehabilitation, (iii) restoration of hydrology, (iv) rehabilitation of carbon sequestration and storage, and (v) promotion of sustainable livelihoods for local communities. For a 4500 km study site in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia, we show a 78% reduction in forest cover between 1973 and 2003 and demonstrate that fire, exacerbated by drainage, is the principal driver of land-use change. Progressive vegetation succession follows infrequent, lowintensity fires, but repeated and high-intensity fires result in retrogressive succession towards non-forest communities. Re-wetting the peat is an important key to vegetation restoration and protection of remaining peat carbon stocks. The effectiveness of hydrological restoration is discussed and likely impacts on greenhouse gas emissions evaluated. Initial results indicate that raised water levels have limited short-term impact on reducing CO emissions, but could be critical in reducing fire risk. We conclude that successful restoration of degraded peatlands must be grounded in scientific knowledge, relevant to socio-economic circumstances, and should not proceed without the consent and co-operation of local communities.
3658753|In this article, we develop a heuristic model of ecosystem-disturbance dynamics that illustrates a range of responses of disturbance impact to gradients of increasing disturbance extent, intensity, or duration. Three general kinds of response are identified and illustrated: (a) threshold response, (b) scale-independent response, and (c) continuous response. Threshold responses are those in which the response curve shows a discontinuity or a sudden change in slope along the axis of increasing disturbance extent, intensity, or duration. The response threshold occurs at a point where the force of the disturbance exceeds the capacity of internal mechanisms to resist disturbance, or where new mechanisms of recovery become involved. Within this conceptual framework, we find that some unusually large or intense disturbances, but not all, produce qualitatively different responses compared with similar disturbances of lesser magnitude. If disturbance impact does not increase with increasing disturbance extent, intensity, or duration, or if the response curve changes monotonically, then large disturbances are not qualitatively different from small ones. For example, jack pine tends to become reestablished after stand-replacing fire in boreal forests, regardless of fire size, because its serotinous cones provide an adequate seed source throughout the burned area. Thus, large fires are not qualitatively different from small fires in terms of jack pine reproduction. However, if disturbance impact does increase abruptly at some point with increasing disturbance extent, intensity, or duration, often because of thresholds in the capacity of internal mechanisms to resist or respond to disturbance impact, then large disturbances are qualitatively different from small ones, at least for some parameters of ecological response. For example, balsam fir and white cedar can recolonize a small burned patch of boreal forest in close proximity to surviving individuals of these species, but they will be eliminated from a large burn because of their susceptibility to fire-caused mortality and their inability to disperse their seeds over long distances. The conceptual framework presented here permits some new insights into the dynamics of natural systems and may provide a useful tool with which managers can assess the potential for catastrophic damages resulting from large, infrequent disturbances.
41505941|It is becoming more apparent that species richness alone many not be sufficient to fully understand ecosystem resilience but that functional diversity (diversity of species having similar effects on an ecosystem process) may be more relevant. In particular, response diversity (diversity of species that respond differently to disturbance) within functional groups (FG) is suggested to be critical for resilience. We assess for the first time the use of response diversity as a measure of resilience in an empirical study. Our experimental design consisted of sites with three disturbance intensities during a grazing exclosure period and the same sites, I year later, after grazing. Plant FGs were identified based on effect traits related to nutrient cycling and soil retention, and species richness within groups was assessed during exclosure and after grazing. To assess if response diversity could predict loss of species richness (resilience analysis), response diversity was calculated only during the exclosure period, based on traits related to grazing tolerance. We also assessed the contribution of richness to response diversity during exclosure (redundancy analysis). Response diversity was significantly and highly correlated with species richness within FGs during disturbance. That is, FGs with the lowest response diversity were the most affected, disappearing when disturbance appeared. Richness within FGs during exclosure was not significantly correlated with response diversity, showing that higher richness does not ensure resilience. We conclude that response diversity can be used to predict which FGs are more resilient, and hence, less vulnerable to future disturbance.
25470375|Urbanization represents the extreme case of human influence on an ecosystem. Biogeochemical cycling of nitrogen (N) in cities is very different from that of non-urban landscapes due to the large input of reactive forms of N and the heterogeneous distribution of various land uses that alters landscape connections. To quantify the likely effects of human activities on soil N and other soil properties in urban ecosystems, we conducted a probability-based study to sample 203 plots randomly distributed over the 6,400 km Central Arizona-Phoenix Long-Term Ecological Research (CAP LTER) area, which encompasses metropolitan Phoenix with its 3.5 million inhabitants. Soil inorganic N concentrations were significantly higher in urban residential, non-residential, agricultural, transportation, and mixed sites than in the desert sites. Soil water content and organic matter were both significantly higher under urban and agricultural land uses, whereas bulk density was lower compared to undeveloped desert. We calculated that farming and urbanization on average had caused an accumulation of 7.23 g m in soil inorganic N across the CAP study area. Average soil inorganic N of the sampled desert sites (3.23 g m) was much higher than the natural background level reported in the literature. Laboratory incubation studies showed that many urban soils exhibited net immobilization of inorganic N, whereas desert and agricultural soils showed small, but positive, net N mineralization. The large accumulation of inorganic N in soils (mostly as nitrate) was highly unusual in terrestrial ecosystems, suggesting that in this arid urban ecosystem, N is likely no longer the primary limiting resource affecting plants, but instead poses a threat to surface and groundwater contamination, and influences other N cycling processes such as denitrification.
23253734|Nitrogen (N) is a critical resource for plant growth in tundra ecosystems, and species differences in the timing of N uptake may be an important feature regulating community composition and ecosystem productivity. We added 15 N-labelled glycine to a subarctic heath tundra dominated by dwarf shrubs, mosses and graminoids in fall, and investigated its partitioning among ecosystem components at several time points (October, November, April, May, June) through to the following spring/early summer. Soil microbes had acquired 65  7% of the 15 N tracer by October, but this pool decreased through winter to 37  7% by April indicating significant microbial N turnover prior to spring thaw. Only the evergreen dwarf shrubs showed active 15 N acquisition before early May indicating that they had the highest potential of all functional groups for acquiring nutrients that became available in early spring. The faster-growing deciduous shrubs did not resume 15 N acquisition until after early May indicating that they relied more on nitrogen made available later during the spring/early summer. The graminoids and mosses had no significant increases in 15 N tracer recovery or tissue 15 N tracer concentrations after the first harvest in October. However, the graminoids had the highest root 15 N, tracer concentrations of all functional groups in October indicating that they primarily relied on N made available during summer and fall. Our results suggest a temporal differentiation among plant functional groups in the post-winter resumption of N uptake with evergreen dwarf shrubs having the highest potential for early N uptake, followed by deciduous dwarf shrubs and graminoids.
3658585|Natural resource managers, environmental interest groups, and public agencies are interested in appropriate, identifiable, and measurable indicators of sustainability. At the same time, public agencies, including natural resource management agencies, are attempting to identify research and management priorities that address major environmental concerns at local and broad scales. The Identify the Specifics approach, described here, uses local (ecodistrict or smaller) ecological/biological "experts'" knowledge to identify and prioritize the local natural resources of concern (commonly species), associated management practices and ecosystems to form a concern matrix. Local ecological/biological concerns form the environmental base of a broader-scale (ecoregion/ecozone) concern matrix. This matrix identifies similarities and differences among local matrices and appropriate components for promotion to broader scales. Scale-specific matrices identify appropriate local, regional, and broader-scale indicators to monitor and assess, and provide public agencies with direction for documenting effects of management and identifying where research is needed. This approach can provide industries, public agencies, environmental interest groups, and governments with ecosystem-based, prioritized information for balancing social, economic, and ecological concerns on public and private lands.
3658820|The understanding of the taxonomic composition of Mediterranean subtidal rocky-shore food webs is extraordinary; the information on trophic links and food-web structure is, however, still meager. An initial description of the rocky-bottom food web of the Medes Islands off the Catalan coast includes a minimum of 1350 species organized in five trophic levels. A minimum of 151 trophic links have been identified for 37 broad trophic/taxonomic categories (including humans), although estimates of the total number of links at the species level may be on the order of thousands for fishes alone. Mediterranean food webs are dynamic, their topology and structure varying along seasonal and environmental gradients. Fishing has been for thousands of years the single major factor provoking changes in the structure of these Mediterranean food webs. Ecologically extinct megafauna (monk seal, loggerhead turtle, sharks) accounted for 24% of the identified trophic interactions. The removal of these large consumers had undescribed ecological consequences. Improved understanding of present and past Mediterranean food webs will improve understanding of the effects of human activities and help us preserve and restore these food webs.
3658589| CLIMEX (Climate Change Experiment) is an integrated, whole-ecosystem research project that focuses on the response of forest ecosystems at the catchment scale to increased CO
25470347|We measured the impact of riparian zone vegetation on ecosystem metabolism in paired forested and meadow reaches on 13 streams in southeastern Pennsylvania and Maryland, USA. Metabolism estimates were based on open-system measurements of dissolved oxygen changes, with reaeration determined from propane evasion. Daily gross primary productivity (GPP) in meadow and forested reaches averaged 2.85 and 0.86 g O m d, respectively, at water temperatures of 12C or greater when the forest canopy was developed and 1.74 and 1.09 g O m d, respectively, at temperatures below 12C when the canopy was bare. Community respiration (CR) also was greater in meadow reaches than in forested reaches, averaging 5.58 and 3.57 g O m d, respectively, in the warm season and 4.87 and 2.88 g O m d, respectively, during the cold season. Thus, both meadow and forested reaches were heterotrophic. Forested reaches were always wider and nearly always shallower than companion meadow reaches. When ecosystem function was assessed per unit of stream length, the difference in average GPP between meadow and forested reaches was reduced from three-fold to 1.9-fold in the warm season, and mean GPP was greater in the forested reaches during the cold season. Mean CR per meter stream length was greater in forested reaches during both seasons. Even though riparian shading reduced primary productivity per unit area of streambed, the greater stream width of the forested reaches counteracted that reduction in part. Thus, when rates of ecosystem function were expressed per length of stream, differences between reaches were always smaller than when expressed per area, and activity per unit stream length was sometimes greater in forested reaches than in meadow reaches.
27823742|In 200003, continuous eddy covariance measurements of carbon dioxide (CO2) flux were made above mature boreal aspen, black spruce, and jack pine forests in Saskatchewan, Canada, prior to and during a 3-year drought. During the 1st drought year, ecosystem respiration (R) was reduced at the aspen site due to the drying of surface soil layers. Gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) increased as a result of a warm spring and a slow decrease of deep soil moisture. These conditions resulted in the highest annual net ecosystem productivity (NEP) in the 9 years of flux measurements at this site. During 2002 and 2003, a reduction of 6% and 34% in NEP, respectively, compared to 2000 was observed as the result of reductions in both R and GEP, indicating a conservative response to the drought. Although the drought affected most of western Canada, there was considerable spatial variability in summer rainfall over the 100-km extent of the study area; summer rainfalls in 2001 and 2002 at the two conifer sites minimized the impact of the drought. In 2003, however, precipitation was similarly low at all three sites. Due to low topographic position and consequent poor drainage at the black spruce site and the coarse soil with low water-holding capacity at the jack pine site almost no reduction in R, GEP, and NEP was observed at these two sites. This study shows that the impact of drought on carbon sequestration by boreal forest ecosystems strongly depends on rainfall distribution, soil characteristics, topography, and the presence of vegetation that is well adapted to these conditions.
40603619|The complexity of natural ecological systems presents challenges for predicting the impact of global environmental changes on ecosystem structure and function. Grouping of plants into functional types, that is, groups of species sharing traits that govern their mechanisms of response to environmental perturbations, reduce the complexity of species diversity to a few key plant types for better understanding of ecosystem responses. Chambers were used to measure CO exchange in grass and moss growing together in a mountain peatland in southern Germany to assess variations in their response to environmental changes and how they influence ecosystem CO exchange. Parameter fits and comparison for net ecosystem exchange (NEE) in two ecosystem components were conducted using an empirical hyperbolic light response model. Annual green biomass production was 320 and 210 g dwt m, whereas mean maximum NEE was -10.0 and -5.0 mol m s for grass and moss, respectively. Grass exhibited higher light use efficiency () and maximum gross primary production [(+ )] Leaf area index explained 93% of light use and 83% of overall production by the grass. Peat temperature at 10-cm depth explained more than 80% of the fluctuations in ecosystem respiration (R eco ). Compared to grass, moss NEE was more sensitive to ground water level (GWL) draw-down and hence could be more vulnerable to changes in precipitation that result in GWL decline and may be potentially replaced by grass and other vegetation that are less sensitive.
3658673|Ancient conceptualizations of ecosystems exist in several Amerindian, Asia-Pacific, European, and African cultures. The rediscovery by scientists of ecosystem-like concepts among traditional peoples has been important in the appreciation of traditional ecological knowledge among ecologists, anthropologists, and interdisciplinary scholars. Two key characteristics of these systems are that (a) the unit of nature is often defined in terms of a geographical boundary, such as a watershed, and (b) abiotic components, plants, animals, and humans within this unit are considered to be interlinked. Many traditional ecological knowledge systems are compatible with the emerging view of ecosystems as unpredictable and uncontrollable, and of ecosystem processes as nonlinear, multiequilibrium, and full of surprises. Traditional knowledge may complement scientific knowledge by providing practical experience in living within ecosystems and responding to ecosystem change. However, the "language" of traditional ecology is different from the scientific and usually includes metaphorical imagery and spiritual expression, signifying differences in context, motive, and conceptual underpinnings.
3658855|Because model predictions at continental and global scales are necessarily based on broad characterizations of vegetation, soils, and climate, estimates of carbon stocks and fluxes made by global terrestrial biosphere models may not be accurate for every region. At the regional scale, we suggest that attention can be focused more clearly on understanding the relative strengths of predicted net primary productivity (NPP) limitation by energy, water, and nutrients. We evaluate the sources of variability among model predictions of NPP with a regional-scale comparison between estimates made by PnET-II (a forest ecosystem process model previously applied to the northeastern region) and TEM 4.0 (a terrestrial biosphere model typically applied to the globe) for the northeastern US. When the same climate, vegetation, and soil data sets were used to drive both models, regional average NPP predictions made by PnET-II and TEM were remarkably similar, and at the biome level, model predictions agreed fairly well with NPP estimates developed from field measurements. However, TEM 4.0 predictions were more sensitive to regional variations in temperature as a result of feedbacks between temperature and belowground N availability. In PnET-II, the direct link between transpiration and photosynthesis caused substantial water stress in hardwood and pine forest types with increases in solar radiation; predicted water stress was relieved substantially when soil water holding capacity (WHC) was increased. Increasing soil WHC had little effect on TEM 4.0 predictions because soil water storage was already sufficient to meet plant demand with baseline WHC values, and because predicted N availability under baseline conditions in this region was not limited by water. Because NPP predictions were closely keyed to forest cover type, the relative coverage of low- versus high-productivity forests at both fine and coarse resolutions was an important determinant of regional NPP predictions. Therefore, changes in grid cell size and differences in the methods used to aggregate from fine to coarse resolution were important to NPP predictions insofar as they changed the relative proportions of forest cover. We suggest that because the small patches of high-elevation spruce-fir forest in this region are substantially less productive than forests in the remainder of the region, more accurate NPP predictions will result if models applied to this region use land cover input data sets that retain as much fine-resolution forest type variability as possible. The differences among model responses to variations in climate and soil WHC data sets suggest that the models will respond quite differently to scenarios of future climate. A better understanding of the dynamic interactions between water stress, N availability, and forest productivity in this region will enable models to make more accurate predictions of future carbon stocks and fluxes.
3658929|Introduced trout have often been implicated in the decline of high-mountain amphibian populations, but few studies have attempted to understand whether fish stocking also influences the distribution and abundance of amphibians throughout entire mountain basins, including the remaining fishless lakes. We examined this relationship using the relative abundance of long-toed salamanders (Ambystoma macrodactylum) and Columbia spotted frogs (Rana luteiventris) in fish-containing and fishless lentic sites in basins with varying levels of historic fish stocking. All lentic waters were surveyed for fish and amphibians in 11 high-elevation basins in the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness, Idaho, between 1994 and 1999. We found introduced trout (Oncorhynchus clarki, O. mykiss, O. m. aguabonita) in 43 of the 101 sites, representing 90% of the total surface area of lentic water bodies available. At the scale of individual water bodies, after accounting for differences in habitat characteristics between fish-containing and fishless sites, the abundance of amphibians at all life stages was significantly lower in lakes with fish. At the basin scale, densities of overwintering life stages of amphibians were lower in the fishless sites of basins where more habitat was occupied by trout. Our results suggest that many of the remaining fishless habitats are too shallow to provide suitable breeding or overwintering sites for these amphibians and that current trout distributions may eventually result in the extirpation of amphibian populations from entire landscapes, including sites that remain in a fishless condition.
40603508|Anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition is a globally important source of N that is expected to increase with population growth. In southern California, N input from dry deposition accumulates on vegetation and soil surfaces of chaparral and coastal sage scrub (CSS) ecosystems during the summer and fall and becomes available as a pulse following winter rainfall. Presumably, N input will act to stimulate the productivity and N storage of these Mediterranean-type, semi-arid shrublands because these ecosystems are thought to be N limited. To assess whether dry-season N inputs alter ecosystem productivity and N storage, a field experiment was conducted over a 4-year period where plots were exposed to either ambient N deposition (control) or ambient + 50 kgN hay (added N) that was added as NH NO during the fall dry-season of each year. Plots exposed to added N had significantly higher accumulation of NH and NO on ion exchange resins that was due in part to direct fertilization and N mineralization, and the increase in N availability lead to a significant increase in NO leaching in chaparral but not CSS. Nitrogen addition also lead to an increase in litter and tissue N concentration and a decline in the C: N ratio, but failed to alter the ecosystem productivity and N storage of the chaparral and CSS shrublands over the 4-year study period. The reasons for the lack of a treatment response are unknown; however, it is possible that these semi-arid shrublands are not N limited, cannot respond rapidly enough to capture the ephemeral N pulse, are limited by other nutrients, or the N response is dependent on the amount and/or distribution of rainfall. These results have important implications for understanding the potential effects of anthropogenic N deposition on the and N cycling and storage of Mediterranean-type, semi-arid shrublands.
23501490|Old-growth forests are important stores for carbon as they may accumulate C for centuries. The alteration of biomass and soil carbon pools across the development stages of a forest dynamics cycle has rarely been quantified. We studied the above- and belowground C stocks in the five forest development stages (regeneration to decay stage) of a montane spruce (Picea abies) forest of the northern German Harz Mountains, one of Central Europe's few forests where the natural forest dynamics have not been disturbed by man for several centuries. The over-mature and decay stages had the largest total (up to 480 Mg C ha -1 ) and aboveground biomass carbon pools (200 Mg C ha -1 ) with biomass C stored in dead wood in the decay stage. The soil C pool (220275 Mg C ha -1 , 060 cm) was two to three times larger than in temperate lowland spruce forests and remained invariant across the forest dynamics cycle. On the landscape level, taking into account the frequency of the five forest development stages, the total carbon pool was approximately 420 Mg C ha -1 . The results evidence the high significance of over-mature and decaying stages of temperate mountain forests not only for conserving specialized forest organisms but also for their large carbon storage potential.
3658898|Few data sets have characterized carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) pools in woody debris at sites where other aspects of C and N cycling are studied and histories of land use and disturbance are well documented. We quantified pools of mass, C, and N in fine and coarse woody debris (CWD) in two contrasting stands: a 73-year-old red pine plantation on abandoned agricultural land and a naturally regenerated deciduous forest that has experienced several disturbances in the past 150 years. Masses of downed woody debris amounted to
27823720|Crossscale interactions refer to processes at one spatial or temporal scale interacting with processes at another scale to result in nonlinear dynamics with thresholds. These interactions change the patternprocess relationships across scales such that fine-scale processes can influence a broad spatial extent or a long time period, or broad-scale drivers can interact with fine-scale processes to determine system dynamics. Crossscale interactions are increasing recognized as having important influences on ecosystem processes, yet they pose formidable challenges for understanding and forecasting ecosystem dynamics. In this introduction to the special feature, "Crossscale interactions and patternprocess relationships", we provide a synthetic framework for understanding the causes and consequences of crossscale interactions. Our framework focuses on the importance of transfer processes and spatial heterogeneity at intermediate scales in linking fine- and broad-scale patterns and processes. Transfer processes and spatial heterogeneity can either amplify or attenuate system response to broad-scale drivers. Providing a framework to explain crossscale interactions is an important step in improving our understanding and ability to predict the impacts of propagating events and to ameliorate these impacts through proactive measures.
41505947|Gross primary productivity (GPP) often is estimated at regional and global scales by multiplying the amount of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) absorbed by the plant canopy (PARa) by light-use efficiency ( g ; GPP/PARa). Mass flux techniques are being used to calculate  g . Flux-based estimates of  g depend partly on how PAR absorption by plants is modeled as a function of leaf area index (LAI). We used CO flux measurements from three native grasslands in the Great Plains of USA to determine how varying the value of the radiation extinction coefficient (k) that is used to calculate PARa from LAI affected variability in estimates of  g for each week. The slope of linear GPPPARa regression, an index of  g , differed significantly among the 18 site-years of data, indicating that inter-annual differences in  g contributed to the overall variability in  g values. GPPPARa slopes differed among years and sites regardless of whether k was assigned a fixed value or varied as an exponential function of LAI. Permitting k to change with LAI reduced overall variability in  g , reduced the slope of a negative linear regression between seasonal means of  g and potential evapotranspiration (PET), and clarified the contribution of inter-annual differences in precipitation to variation in  g . Our results imply that greater attention be given to defining dynamics of the k coefficient for ecosystems with low LAI and that PET and precipitation be used to constrain the  g values employed in light-use efficiency algorithms to calculate GPP for Great Plains grasslands.
25470421|Large herbivores can both positively and negatively affect primary productivity and rates of nutrient cycling in different ecosystems. Positive effects of grazers in grasslands have been attributed to migratory behavior of the dominant ungulate species and soil fertility. We studied the effects of grazers on aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and N cycling on central Kenyan rangeland characterized by intense, chronic grazing by a mixed community of cattle and resident native ungulates. Exclosure studies conducted at high and low levels of soil fertility showed that both soil fertility and annual rainfall patterns mediate the effects of grazers on ANPP and N cycling. In a low-rainfall year with short (1 month) growing seasons, grazers reduced aboveground productivity regardless of soil nutrient availability. However, in a high-rainfall year with a 5-month growing season, grazers increased ANPP on nutrient-rich glades and suppressed ANPP on nutrient-poor bushland sites. Concomitant studies of grazer effects on N cycling revealed complex interactions with the seasonal pattern of N-mineralization and inorganic N availability. Grazers increased the size of the inorganic N pool available to plants at the onset of the growing season, particularly in nutrient-rich glades. However, grazers also decreased N mineralization rates at all sites early in the growing season. Measures of N availability via ion-exchange resin bags suggested that the combined effects of grazers on inorganic N pool fluctuations and N-mineralization rates resulted in a net increase in N availability at glade sites and a net decrease in N availability at bushland sites. The net effect of grazers on soil N availability mirrored grazer effects on ANPP in the high-rainfall year. Overall, our results suggest that grazer effects on N dynamics are closely linked to effects on productivity and resilience to drought. Furthermore, even under optimal conditions of high soil fertility and above-average rainfall, grazer promotion of ANPP in this chronically grazed system dominated by resident ungulates was small compared to systems dominated by migratory ungulates.
25053878|Spatial variability in material fluxes within large river basins may arise from point source inputs, variable contributions from sub-basins and longitudinal variation in material transformation and retention. By measuring instantaneous fluxes throughout the Ohio River basin, we were able to draw inferences about the importance of these factors in determining the overall export of C, N and P from the basin. Our study spanned the lower 645 km of the Ohio River and included all tributaries that contributed at least 1% of the volume of the Ohio River at its confluence with the Mississippi. The intensively cultivated northern sub-basin (Wabash River) contributed a large fraction of N and P entering the Ohio River. In the southern sub-basins (Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers), impoundments and less intense cultivation appear to diminish and delay material delivery particularly with respect to N. The southern rivers account for a proportionately larger fraction of the water entering the Mississippi River during low discharge conditions and this fraction has increased during the past 50 years. The upper portion of the study reach was found to be a net source of CHLa and DOC and a net sink for inorganic N suggesting that this portion of the river provided a generally favorable environment for autotrophic production. Point source loadings of
3658735|We evaluated soil phosphorus (P) fractions, other soil characteristics, and rates of symbiotic N
3659070| Tree plantations in the high elevations of the tropics constitute a growing land use, but their effect on ecosystem processes and services is not well known. We examined changes in soil organic carbon (C) and water retention in a chronosequence of Pinus radiata stands planted in pramo grasslands in Cotopaxi province, Ecuador. Water retention at 10, 33, and 1,500 kPa declined with stand age, with soils in the oldest pine stands retaining 39%, 55%, and 63% less water than grassland soils at the three pressures tested. Soil organic C in the 0-10-cm depth also declined with stand age, from
27823705|The region Finnmark, in northernmost Europe, harbors dense populations of semi-domestic reindeer of which some exhibit characteristics of overabundance. Whereas overabundance is evident in terms of density-dependent reductions in reindeer body mass, population growth and abundance of forage plants, claims have been made that this reindeer overabundance also has caused a trophic cascade. These claims are based on the main premise that reindeer overgrazing negatively impacts small-sized, keystone tundra herbivores. We tested this premise by a large-scale study in which the abundance of small rodents, hares and ptarmigans was indexed across reindeer management districts with strong differences in stocking densities. We examined the scale-dependent relations between reindeer, vegetation and these small-sized herbivores by employing a spatially hierarchical sampling design within the management districts. A negative impact of reindeer on ptarmigan, probably as a result of browsing reducing tall Salix, was indicated. However, small rodents (voles and lemmings), which are usually the keystone herbivores in the plant-based tundra food web, were not negatively impacted. On the contrary, there was a strong positive relationship between small rodents and reindeer, both at the scale of landscape areas and local patches, with characteristics of snow-bed vegetation, suggesting facilitation between Norwegian lemmings and reindeer. We conclude that the recent dampening of the vole and lemming population cycle with concurrent declines of rodent predators in northernmost Europe were not caused by large herbivore overgrazing.
27823690|Modification of native ecosystems through land use can affect the biophysical functioning of agroecosystems, with spatial arrangement (configuration) through time often determining the degree to which landscapes experience dysfunctional states. An improved understanding is needed of how spatial and temporal patterns in land use affect ecohydrological dysfunctions, such as how landscapes leak or fail to retain water and soil, at scales relevant to farm management. We develop and apply a Graphical LAndscape Map Survey method, or 'GLAMS', for measuring changes in landscape function based upon a 3D graphic of a hypothetical sub-catchment. GLAMS was applied within four Landcare Groups comprised of farmers from the Western Catchments of Southeast Queensland, Australia. The aim was to capture the behaviors of farmers who manage land use under natural variations in precipitation, especially extended dry periods, and with the associated risks from ecohydrologically dysfunctional or 'leaky' landscapes. GLAMS provided variable spatial and temporal resolution which allowed quantification of the land use responses for three different property sizes: (1) small, less than 100 ha; (2) medium, 100--500 ha; and (3) large, larger than 500 ha. Responses were quantified using Bayesian Belief Networks to provide probability estimates of the likelihood of a given action, taking place within a particular part of the landscape, considering both climatic and ecohydrological risks. The findings indicated that GLAMS was more intuitive to farmers than traditional question-based surveys, resulting in a low cost technique that is rapid to implement while providing spatially explicit information relevant to farm and catchment management.
3658736|For the large-scale application of simple, aggregated models, it is important to be able to link the values of model parameters to easily measurable ecosystem characteristics. However, the aggregation of model inputs and outputs over time and space can hamper this linkage. In this paper, two temporal versions of the same simple carbon dioxide ( CO
43677536|Canopy gaps and coarse woody debris are two forest structural features that are more abundant in old-growth forests than in second-growth, even-aged stands. These features directly influence the carbon balance of the ecosystem, yet few studies have quantified their interactive effects. We experimentally manipulated the forest structure of a second-growth northern hardwood forest in north-central Wisconsin (USA) and measured the shift of C between pools of the ecosystem components. Here, we question the longevity of the changes to the aboveground pools and address their implications for total ecosystem (TEC) and net ecosystem production (NEP) at both the gap and stand scale. At the scale of the gap, the harvest and removal of trees significantly reduced NEP (-3.2 to -3.5 Mg ha" 1 for gaps vs 2.2 to 2.5 Mg ha" 1 for reference conditions), but did not alter heterotrophic respiration. The addition of woody debris without harvest significantly increased heterotrophic respiration, decreasing soil storage of the gap area ( 0.5 to  1.1 Mg ha" 1 ). The combined treatment of gap creation and woody debris addition made the gap area a significant source to the atmosphere for the 3 years of the study ( 4.9 to  5.1 Mg C ha). We also estimated how these structural features would affect C dynamics at a broader scale. The conversion of 10% of the stand canopy to gap conditions caused only a brief decrease in the stand NEP with the C balance returning to reference conditions by the third year following tree harvest. The woody debris additions caused an increase in both TEC and heterotrophic respiration. When combined the addition of canopy gaps and woody debris caused plots to initially become significant C sources, relative to undisturbed locations that were consistently accumulating C, with an annual NEP ranging from 2.1 to 2.8 Mg C ha y. Understanding the effects of these structural features on forest C dynamics is highly relevant as the maturing forests of the region transition to more structurally complex forests and the demand for managing ecosystems for long-term C sequestration increases.
25470413|Recent research suggests that secondary production in aquatic systems can be driven by inputs of energy from terrestrial sources. Temporary forest ponds appear to be unproductive ecosystems that are reliant upon allochthonous inputs of energy to support secondary production, but the functioning of these systems has not been well quantified. To assess the metabolic state of this type of ecosystem as well as to quantify the importance of terrestrial subsidies of carbon to ecosystem function, we conducted an experiment in which we manipulated the amount of leaf litter in ponds. Litter was either removed or removed and replaced (that is, control) from the dry basins of ponds immediately after leaf abscission. Once the ponds filled, we monitored net ecosystem production (NEP) on a biweekly basis from 9 April to 27 May 2002. All ponds were consistently net heterotrophic; however, NEP was significantly less negative in removal ponds. Furthermore, removal ponds also had lower levels of respiration (R) and higher dissolved oxygen levels than control ponds. The removal of litter had no effect on gross primary production, indicating that the difference in NEP between treatments was driven by the change in R. Therefore, it appears that terrestrial inputs of organic carbon support heterotrophic respiration in these ponds, and that the endogenous production of carbon is insufficient to support secondary production.
25470419|The objective of this study was to characterize the effects of soil burn severity and initial tree composition on long-term forest floor dynamics and ecosystem biomass partitioning within the Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP-feathermoss bioclimatic domain of northwestern Quebec. Changes in forest floor organic matter and ecosystem biomass partitioning were evaluated along a 2,355-year chronosequence of extant stands. Dendroecological and paleoecological methods were used to determine the time since the last fire, the soil burn severity of the last fire (high vs. low severity), and the post-fire tree composition of each stand (P. mariana vs. Pinus banksiana Lamb). In this paper, soil burn severity refers to the thickness of the organic matter layer accumulated above the mineral soil that was not burned by the last fire. In stands originating from high severity fires, the post-fire dominance by Pinus banksiana or P. mariana had little effect on the change in forest floor thickness and tree biomass. In contrast, stands established after low severity fires accumulated during the first century after fire 73% thicker forest floors and produced 50% less tree biomass than stands established after high severity fires. Standing tree biomass increased until approximately 100 years after high severity fires, and then decreased at a logarithmic rate in the millennial absence of fire. Forest floor thickness also showed a rapid initial accumulation rate, and continued to increase in the millennial absence of fire at a much slower rate. However, because forest floor density increased through time, the overall rate of increase in forest floor biomass (58 g m y) remained constant for numerous centuries after fire (700 years). Although young stands (< 200 years) have more than 60% of ecosystem biomass locked-up in living biomass, older stands (> 200 years) sequester the majority (> 80%) of it in their forest floor. The results from this study illustrate that, under similar edaphic conditions, a single gradient related to time since disturbance is insufficient to account for the full spectrum of ecosystem biomass dynamics occurring in eastern boreal forests and highlights the importance of considering soil burn severity. Although fire severity induces diverging ecosystem biomass dynamics in the short term, the extended absence of fire brings about a convergence in terms of ecosystem biomass accumulation and partitioning.
41507793|Several studies have demonstrated a latitudinal gradient in the proportion of omnivorous fish species (that is, consumers of both vegetal and animal material) in marine ecosystems. To establish if this global macroecological pattern also exists in fresh and brackish waters, we compared the relative richness of omnivorous fish in freshwater, estuarine, and marine ecosystems at contrasting latitudes. Furthermore, we sought to determine the main environmental correlates of change in fish omnivory. We conducted a meta-analysis of published data focusing on change in the relative richness of omnivorous fishes in native fish communities along a broad global latitudinal gradient, ranging from 41S to 81.5 N including all continents except for Antarctica. Data from streams, rivers, lakes, reservoirs, estuaries, and open marine waters (ca. 90 papers covering 269 systems) were analyzed. Additionally, the relationship between the observed richness in omnivory and key factors influencing trophic structure were explored. For all ecosystems, we found a consistent increasing trend in the relative richness of omnivores with decreasing latitude. Furthermore, omnivore richness was higher in freshwaters than in marine ecosystems. Our results suggest that the observed latitudinal gradient in fish omnivory is a global ecological pattern occurring in both freshwater and marine ecosystems. We hypothesize that this macroecological pattern in fish trophic structure is, in part, explained by the higher total fish diversity at lower latitudes and by the effect of temperature on individual food intake rates; both factors ultimately increasing animal food limitation as the systems get warmer.
41505868|Currently, one of the biggest challenges in microbial and ecosystem ecology is to develop conceptual models that organize the growing body of information on environmental microbiology into a clear mechanistic framework with a direct link to ecosystem processes. Doing so will enable development of testable hypotheses to better direct future research and increase understanding of key constraints on biogeochemical networks. Although the understanding of phenotypic and genotypic diversity of microorganisms in the environment is rapidly accumulating, how controls on microbial physiology ultimately affect biogeochemical fluxes remains poorly understood. We propose that insight into constraints on biogeochemical cycles can be achieved by a more rigorous evaluation of microbial community biomass composition within the context of ecological stoichiometry. Multiple recent studies have pointed to microbial biomass stoichiometry as an important determinant of when microorganisms retain or recycle mineral nutrients. We identify the relevant cellular components that most likely drive changes in microbial biomass stoichiometry by defining a conceptual model rooted in ecological stoichiometry. More importantly, we show how X-ray microanalysis (XRMA), nanoscale secondary ion mass spectroscopy (NanoSIMS), Raman microspectroscopy, and in situ hybridization techniques (for example, FISH) can be applied in concert to allow for direct empirical evaluation of the proposed conceptual framework. This approach links an important piece of the ecological literature, ecological stoichiometry, with the molecular front of the microbial revolution, in an attempt to provide new insight into how microbial physiology could constrain ecosystem processes.
27823655|Some shallow lakes switch repeatedly back and forth between a vegetation dominated clear-water state and a contrasting turbid state. Usually such alternations occur quite irregularly, but in some cases the switches between states are remarkably regular. Here we use data from a well-studied Dutch lake and a set of simple models to explore possible explanations for such cyclic behavior. We first demonstrate from a graphical model that cycles may in theory occur if submerged macrophytes promote water clarity in the short run, but simultaneously cause an increased nutrient retention, implying an accumulation of nutrients in the long run. Thus, although submerged plants create a positive feedback on their own growth by clearing the water, they may in the long run undermine their position by creating a slow "internal eutrophication". We explore the potential role of two different mechanisms that may play a role in this internal eutrophication process using simulation models: (1) reduction of the P concentration in the water column by macrophytes, leading to less outflow of P, and hence to a higher phosphorus accumulation in the lake sediments and (2) a build-up of organic matter over time resulting in an increased sediment oxygen demand causing anaerobic conditions that boost P release from the sediment. Although the models showed that both mechanisms can produce cyclic behavior, the period of the cycles caused by the build-up of organic material seemed more realistic compared to data of the Dutch Lake Botshol in which regular cycles with a period of approximately 7 years have been observed over the past 17 years.
40296279|Wet meadows in the Platte River valley (PRV) consist of linear wetlands in mesic prairie matrix systems that have been degraded and diminished for agriculture. Restoration in this region is a widespread practice that involves land contouring and seeding native species, however ecosystem recovery following restoration has never been examined. We quantified recovery trajectories and rates of above-and belowground plant biomass, soil physical and chemical properties, and C and N pools in a chronosequence of six restored wet meadows in relation to three natural wetlands. Within each site, we sampled sloughs (deeper habitats) and adjacent margins (slightly higher elevation) for three consecutive years. Varying hydrologic regimes between habitats resulted in differential patterns in ecosystem measurements (bulk density, C mineralization) in both natural and restored wetlands. Total aboveground biomass (TAB), root biomass, root C and N storage, total soil C and N, microbial N, and extractable N increased with years restored in both margins and sloughs. The model predicted rates of increase did not differ between habitats, but elevations of linear regressions were higher in sloughs than margins for root N, total soil C, total soil N, MBN, and extractable total N (P < 0.05). Our results suggest that bulk density and soil organic matter (SOM) represent two useful, easily measured indices of ecosystem recovery, because they were correlated with many pools and fluxes of C and N. Furthermore, we conclude that most change in ecosystem structure and function during the first decade following restoration occurs in shallow soil depths, and ecosystem recovery varies with subtle differences in elevation and associated plant community structure.
43677535|Domestic gardens collectively cover substantial areas within cities and play an important role in supporting urban biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. The extent of their contribution to urban biodiversity is ultimately determined by the attitudes, motivations, and practices of their owners. We identified variables characterizing individual householders and their properties that explained variation in perennial plant and avian species richness and plant diversity among 55 gardens in New Zealand. The size of the vegetated area was most important in explaining bird and plant diversity, independent of property size. Also important and positively associated with plant richness were socio-economic status and ability to discriminate between native and exotic species. Median housing age and neighborhood green space were less important. Contrary to expectations, better educated householders who demonstrated pro-environmental orientation (NEP) did not necessarily have gardens with greater plant diversity, however, people with higher NEP scores tended to have gardens with more structurally complex vegetation. Similar variables were important in explaining native and exotic species richness, but higher exotic plant diversity was associated with older people with smaller properties of lower value. Avian species richness increased primarily with vegetated area, but also the areas of beds and hedges. We demonstrate that although householder knowledge is an important determinant of garden biodiversity, vegetated area is most important. Promoting urban garden biodiversity requires that larger vegetated properties be supported and encouraged, and that planners should consider biodiversity when formulating policies, concerning garden size, property size, and consents that may result in a progressive increase in the proportion of built over/paved areas.
25622881|Although many studies have debated the theoretical links between physiology, ecological niches and species distribution, few studies have provided evidence for a tight empirical coupling between these concepts at a macroecological scale. We used an ecophysiological model to assess the fundamental niche of a key-structural marine species. We found a close relationship between its fundamental and realized niche. The relationship remains constant at both biogeographical and decadal scales, showing that changes in environmental forcing propagate from the physiological to the macroecological level. A substantial shift in the spatial distribution is detected in the North Atlantic and projections of range shift using IPCC scenarios suggest a poleward movement of the species of one degree of latitude per decade for the 21st century. The shift in the spatial distribution of this species reveals a pronounced alteration of polar pelagic ecosystems with likely implications for lower and upper trophic levels and some biogeochemical cycles.
3658916|Unreplicated ecosystem experiments can be analyzed by diverse statistical methods. Most of these methods focus on the null hypothesis that there is no response of a given ecosystem to a manipulation. We suggest that it is often more productive to compare diverse alternative explanations (models) for the observations. An example is presented using whole-lake experiments. When a single experimental lake was examined, we could not detect effects of phosphorus (P) input rate, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), and grazing on chlorophyll. When three experimental lakes with contrasting DOC and food webs were subjected to the same schedule of P input manipulations, all three impacts and their interactions were measurable. Focus on multiple alternatives has important implications for design of ecosystem experiments. If a limited number of experimental ecosystems are available, it may be more informative to manipulate each ecosystem differently to test alternatives, rather than attempt to replicate the experiment.
43677503|In grassland ecosystems, where soil water most frequently controls ecosystem processes, expected changes in precipitation and temperature may have dramatic effects on ecosystem dynamics. Previous observational studies have reported that aboveground net primary production (ANPP) in grasslands is very sensitive to changes in precipitation. Yet, we lack experimentally based evidence to support these observations. Further, most of the studies have focused solely on ANPP, neglecting belowground production (BNPP). This is an important gap in our knowledge, as BNPP represents 50% or more of total net primary production (NPP) in grasslands. Here, we present results from a 3-year water manipulation experiment (2008-2010) at two sites in the central grassland region of North America, USA. We were successful in changing the soil water content in our treatments, but these changes resulted in different, but significant responses in ANPP and BNPP at our two sites. At the shortgrass steppe, we found that neither NPP nor ANPP were sensitive to treatment precipitation, and although we found BNPP was sensitive to changes in treatment precipitation, the direction of the response varied between years. In contrast, ANPP was very sensitive to treatment precipitation on the mixed-grass prairie, whereas BNPP was insensitive. Based on our finding that two grassland ecosystems showed dramatically different above and belowground production responses to soil water manipulations, we cannot assume that predicted changes in climate will cause similar above- and belowground production responses. Second, our results demonstrated that sites within the same region may differ markedly in the sensitivity of ANPP to changes in growing season precipitation.
40928221|Ecosystem dynamics and the responses to climate change in mangrove forests are poorly understood. We applied the biogeochemical process model Biome-BGC to simulate the dynamics of net primary productivity (NPP) and leaf area index (LAI) under the present and future climate conditions in mangrove forests in Shenzhen, Zhanjiang, and Qiongshan across the southern coast of China, and in three monocultural mangrove stands of two native species, Avicennia marina and Kandelia obovata, and one exotic species, Sonneratia apetala, in Shenzhen. The soil hydrological process of the model was modified by incorporating a soil water (SW) stress index to account for the impact of the effective SW availability in the coastal wetland. Our modified Biome-BGC well predicted the dynamics of NPP and LAI in the mangrove forests at the study sites. We found that the six mangrove systems differed in sensitivity to variations in the effective SW availability. At the ecosystem level, however, soil salinity alone could not entirely explain the limitation of the effective SW availability on the productivity of mangrove forests. Increasing atmospheric CO concentration differentially affected growth of different mangrove species but only had a small impact on NPP (< 7%); whereas a doubling of atmospheric CO concentration associated with a 2C temperature rise would increase NPP by 14-19% across the three geographically separate mangrove forests and by 12% to as much as 68% across the three monocultural mangrove stands. Our simulation analysis indicates that temperature change is more important than increasing CO concentration in affecting productivity of mangroves at the ecosystem level, and that different mangrove species differ in sensitivity to increases in temperature and CO concentration.
3658714|We compared Englemann spruce biogeochemical processes in forest stands east and west of the Continental Divide in the Colorado Front Range. The divide forms a natural barrier for air pollutants such that nitrogen (N) emissions from the agricultural and urban areas of the South Platte River Basin are transported via upslope winds to high elevations on the east side but rarely cross over to the west side. Because there are far fewer emissions sources to the west, atmospheric N deposition is
40793009|The observed long-term decrease in the regional fire activity of Eastern Canada results in excessive accumulation of organic layer on the forest floor of coniferous forests, which may affect climategrowth relationships in canopy trees. To test this hypothesis, we related tree-ring chronologies of black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B. S. P.) to soil organic layer (SOL) depth at the stand scale in the lowland forests of Quebec's Clay Belt. Late-winter and early-spring temperatures and temperature at the end of the previous year's growing season were the major monthly level environmental controls of spruce growth. The effect of SOL on climategrowth relationships was moderate and reversed the association between tree growth and summer aridity from a negative to a positive relationship: trees growing on thin organic layers were thus negatively affected by drought, whereas it was the opposite for sites with deep (> 20-30 cm) organic layers. This indicates the development of wetter conditions on sites with thicker SOL. Deep SOL were also associated with an increased frequency of negative growth anomalies (pointer years) in treering chronologies. Our results emphasize the presence of nonlinear growth responses to SOL accumulation, suggesting 20-30 cm as a provisional threshold with respect to the effects of SOL on the climate-growth relationship. Given the current climatic conditions characterized by generally lowfire activity and a trend toward accumulation of SOL, the importance of SOL effects in the black spruce ecosystem is expected to increase in the future.
3659033|We examined denitrification potentials in six of the major landscape structure (riparian soils of both meandering and braided streams, peat lands, coniferous flats, alder slopes, and groundwater seeps) of the Lake Nerka catchment in southwest Alaska. We found significant potential denitrifying activity in all the soils of the main landscape patch types of the Lake Nerka catchment. The lowest potential denitrifying activity was measured in the peat lands. A highly significant relationship was found between soil organic matter and potential denitrification activity in three landforms-coniferous flats, groundwater seeps, and riparian soils of meandering streams. These three landscape structures also had the highest denitrifying potential. The finer soils of riparian zones along spawning streams, which corresponded to meandering streams, showed a significantly higher potential denitrification activity than the coarse riparian soils along nonspawning streams. These nonspawning streams corresponded to braided streams, where finer sediments were not as prevalent. Therefore, if this high potential denitrification measured in riparian soils of spawning streams is combined with large inputs of nitrate to anaerobic sites, it can result in
25622900|It is very difficult to estimate litter decomposition rates in natural ecosystems because litters of many species are mixed and idiosyncratic interactions occur among those litters. A way to tackle this problem is to investigate litter mixing effects not at the species level but at the level of Plant Functional Types (PFTs). We tested the hypothesis that at the PFT level positive and negative interactions balance each other, causing an overall additive effect (no significant interactions among PFTs). Thereto, we used litter of four PFTs from a temperate peatland in which random draws were taken from the litter species pool of each PFT for every combination of 2, 3, and 4 PFTs. Decomposition rates clearly differed among the 4 PFTs (Sphagnum spp. < graminoids = N-fixing tree < forbs) and showed little variation within the PFTs (notably for the Sphagnum mosses and the graminoids). Significant positive interactions (4 out of 11) in the PFT mixtures were only found after 20 weeks and in all these combinations Sphagnum was involved. After 36 and 56 weeks of incubation interactions were not significantly different from zero. However, standard deviations were larger than the means, indicating that positive and negative interactions balanced each other. Thus, when litter mixture interactions are considered at the PFT level the interactions are additive. From this we conclude that for estimating litter decomposition rates at the ecosystem level, it is sufficient to use the weighted (by litter production) average decomposition rates of the contributing PFTs.
23501486|Phosphorus (P) availability in terrestrial ecosystems depends on soil age, climate, parent material, topographic position, and biota, but the relative importance of these drivers has not been assessed. To ask which factor has the strongest influence on long- and short-timescale metrics of P availability, we sampled soils across a full-factorial combination of two parent materials [quartz diorite (QD) and volcaniclastic (VC)], three topographic positions (ridge, slope, and valley), and across 550 m in elevation in 17 sub-watersheds of the Luquillo Mountains, Puerto Rico. VC rocks had double the P content of QD (600 vs. 300 ppm; P < 0.0001), and soil P was similarly approximately 2 higher in VC-derived soils (P < 0.0001). Parent material also explained the most variance in our two other long-timescale metrics of P status: the fraction of recalcitrant P (56% variance explained) and the loss of P relative to parent material (35% variance explained), both of which were higher on VC-derived soils (P < 0.0001 for both). Topographic position explained an additional 1015% of the variance in these metrics. In contrast, there was no parent material effect on the more labile NaHCO3- and NaOH-extractable P soil pools, which were approximately 2.5 greater in valleys than on ridges (P < 0.0001). Taken together, these data suggest that the relative importance of different state factors varies depending on the ecosystem property of interest and that parent material and topography can play sub-equal roles in driving differences in ecosystem P status across landscapes.
41505900|Extreme climatic events have the potential to affect plant communities around the world, and especially in the Mediterranean basin, where the frequency of milder and drier summers is expected to be altered under a global-change scenario. We experimentally investigated the effect of three contrasting climatic scenarios on the diversity and abundance of the natural woody-recruit bank among three characteristic habitats in a Mediterranean-type ecosystem: forest, shrubland, and bare soil. The climatic scenarios were dry summers (30% summer rainfall reduction), wet summers (simulating summer storms), and current climatic conditions (control). Seedling emergence and survival after the first summer was recorded during 4 consecutive years. The wet summer boosted abundance and diversity at emergence and summer survival, rendering the highest Shannon H' index. By contrast, the dry summer had no effect on emergence, although survival tended to decline. Nonetheless, the habitat had a key role, bare soil showing almost null recruitment whatever the climatic scenario, and forest keeping the highest diversity in all of them. Our results show that recruit-bank density and diversity depends heavily on extreme climatic events. Community dynamics will depend not only on increased drought but also on the balance between dry and wet years.
3658999|The aim of this study was to determine whether the experimental nutrient enrichment of littoral rocky shore communities would be followed by a predicted accumulation of fast-growing opportunistic algae and a subsequent loss of perennial benthic vegetation. Inorganic nitrogen (N) and potassium (P) was added to eight concrete mesocosms inhabited by established littoral communities dominated by fucoids. The response to nutrient enrichment was followed for almost 2 1/2 years. Fast-growing opportunistic algae (periphyton and ephemeral green algae) grew significantly faster in response to nutrient enrichment, but the growth of red filamentous algae and large perennial brown algae was unaffected. However, these changes were not followed by comparable changes in the biomass and composition of the macroalgae. The biomass of opportunistic algae was stimulated only marginally by the nutrient enrichment, and perennial brown algae (fucoids) remained dominant in the mesocosm regardless of nutrient treatment level. Established rocky shore communities thus seem able to resist the effects of heavy nutrient loading. We found that the combined effects of the heavy competition for space and light imposed by canopy-forming algae, preferential grazing on opportunistic algae by herbivores, and physical disturbance, succeeded by a marked export of detached opportunistic algae, prevented the fast-growing algae from becoming dominant. However, recruitment studies showed that the opportunistic algae would become dominant when free space was available under conditions of high nutrient loading and low grazing pressure. These results show that established communities of perennial algae and associated fauna in rocky shore environments can prevent or delay the accumulation of bloom-forming opportunistic algae and that the replacement of long-lived macroalgae by opportunistic species at high nutrient loading may be a slow process. Nutrient enrichment may not, in itself, be enough to stimulate structural changes in rocky shore communities.
40928247|Heavy metal bioaccumulation models are important for interpreting water quality data, predicting bioaccumulation in organisms, and investigating the provenance of contaminants. To date they have been predominantly used as single-issue models, under steady-state conditions and in isolation of the biogeochemical processes that control metal bioaccumulation. Models that incorporate these processes would allow a more holistic approach to bioaccumulation modeling and contaminant assessment; however, this has been rarely undertaken, probably because it requires the integration of inter-disciplinary areas. In this study, we have developed such a model that integrates three key multi-disciplinary areas (biological, metal speciation, and bioaccumulation processes) and responds to variations in temporal external and internal forcing. Furthermore, spatial context is provided by developing the model within a simple hydrodynamic box-modeling framework. The calibrated model was able to predict with reasonable accuracy the temporal and spatial trends of soft-tissue copper bioaccumulation in a coastal oyster. This exploratory model was also used to highlight the importance of phytoplankton as an important vector of copper uptake dynamics by an oyster, therefore reinforcing the importance of the integrated approach. Finally, our model provides a framework for greater application beyond this specific example such as in the areas of waterway restoration, which has been shown to be an important area of ecological and environmental research.
41505871|Mosaic freshwater landscapes exhibit tree-dominated patches or tree islandsinterspersed in a background of marshes and wet prairies. In the Florida Everglades, these patterned landscapes provide habitat for a variety of plant and animal species and are hotspots of biodiversity. Even though the emergence of patchy freshwater systems has been associated with climate histories, fluctuating hydrologie conditions, and internal feedbacks, a process-based quantitative understanding of the underlying dynamics is still missing. Here, we develop a mechanistic framework that relates the dynamics of vegetation, nutrients and soil accretion/loss through ecogeomorphic feedbacks and interactions with hydrologie drivers. We show that the stable coexistence of tree islands and marshes results as an effect of their both being (meta-) stable states of the system. However, tree islands are found to have only a limited resilience, in that changes in hydrologie conditions or vegetation cover may cause an abrupt shift to a stable marsh state. The inherent non-linear and discontinuous dynamics determining the stability and resilience of tree islands should be accounted for in efforts aiming at the management, conservation and restoration of these features.
40296373|The net ecosystem carbon dioxide (CO) exchange (NEE) of nine European mountain grassland ecosystems was measured during 2002-2004 using the eddy covariance method. Overall, the availability of photosynthetically active radiation (PPFD) was the single most important abiotic influence factor for NEE. Its role changed markedly during the course of the season, PPFD being a better predictor for NEE during periods favorable for CO uptake, which was spring and autumn for the sites characterized by summer droughts (southern sites) and (peak) summer for the Alpine and northern study sites. This general pattern was interrupted by grassland management practices, that is, mowing and grazing, when the variability in NEE explained by PPFD decreased in concert with the amount of aboveground biomass (BMag). Temperature was the abiotic influence factor that explained most of the variability in ecosystem respiration at the Alpine and northern study sites, but not at the southern sites characterized by a pronounced summer drought, where soil water availability and the amount of aboveground biomass were more or equally important. The amount of assimilating plant area was the single most important biotic variable determining the maximum ecosystem carbon uptake potential, that is, the NEE at saturating PPFD. Good correspondence, in terms of the magnitude of NEE, was observed with many (semi-) natural grasslands around the world, but not with grasslands sown on fertile soils in lowland locations, which exhibited higher maximum carbon gains at lower respiratory costs. It is concluded that, through triggering rapid changes in the amount and area of the aboveground plant matter, the timing and frequency of land management practices is crucial for the short-term sensitivity of the NEE of the investigated mountain grassland ecosystems to climatic drivers.
3658754|All species have evolved in the presence of disturbance, and thus are in a sense matched to the recurrence pattern of the perturbations. Consequently, disturbances within the typical range, even at the extreme of that range as defined by large, infrequent disturbances (LIDs), usually result in little long-term change to the system's fundamental character. We argue that more serious ecological consequences result from compounded perturbations within the normative recovery time of the community in question. We consider both physically based disturbance (for example, storm, volcanic eruption, and forest fire) and biologically based disturbance of populations, such as overharvesting, invasion, and disease, and their interactions. Dispersal capability and measures of generation time or age to first reproduction of the species of interest seem to be the important metrics for scaling the size and frequency of disturbances among different types of ecosystems. We develop six scenarios that describe communities that have been subjected to multiple perturbations, either simultaneously or at a rate faster than the rate of recovery, and appear to have entered new domains or "ecological surprises." In some cases, three or more disturbances seem to have been required to initiate the changed state. We argue that in a world of ever-more-pervasive anthropogenic impacts on natural communities coupled with the increasing certainty of global change, compounded perturbations and ecological surprises will become more common. Understanding these ecological synergisms will be basic to environmental management decisions of the 21st century.
43677531|Pedogenic thresholds occur where soil properties change abruptly and/or nonlinearly with a small increment in environmental forcing; soil process domains are the regions between thresholds where soils change much more gradually across a large range of environmental forcing. We evaluated thresholds and domains in basalt-derived soils on two rainfall gradients in Hawaiione from 260 to 3,540 mm/y precipitation on 150,000-year-old substrate, the other from 600 to 3,760 mm/y on 4,100,000-year-old substrate. We identified thresholds associated with the initiation of biological uplift of nutrients at about 700 mm/y on the younger substrate, the depletion of primary minerals at about 2,100 mm/y on the younger and about 900 mm/y on the older substrate, and the initiation of anoxic conditions and associated Fe mobility at about 2,500 mm/y on the older substrate. These thresholds delineated process domains characterized by pedogenic carbonate accumulation and wind erosion (dry young substrate); by weathering and biological uplift of nutrients (intermediate rainfall young substrate and dry old substrate); by surface Fe enrichment and nutrient depletion (wet young substrate and intermediate rainfall old substrate); and by Fe mobilization and loss (wet old substrate). Soils on the older substrate were more highly weathered, lower in total and available P, and characterized by more crystalline clays than otherwise comparable soils on the younger substrate. Prior to European contact, Hawaiian cultivators developed an intensive rain-fed agricultural system in the weathering/biological uplift domain on the younger substrate; we suggest that only this domain could support indigenous agricultural intensification in upland soils.
23501306|Disturbance regimes in much of the boreal forest have shifted from wildfire to clearcutting over the last century, resulting in concerns for biodiversity. Because the boreal forest has evolved under a natural fire regimes, we hypothesized that application of prescribed burning (PB) after clearcutting would result in plant communities more similar to wildfire than clearcut only. However, because clearcutting + PB involves multiple disturbances in a short interval, we proposed an alternate hypothesis that clearcutting + PB would result in a species composition and trait assemblage that differ from those that develop after a single wildfire or clearcutting event. We determined species composition, diversity, and trait composition of 17 clearcut, 17 clearcut + PB, and 15 wildfire sites of jack pine (Pinus banksiana) dominated forests in northwestern Ontario, Canada 1537 years after disturbance. Contrary to our primary hypothesis we found that clearcut + PB formed communities different from wildfire and clearcut, the latter two being similar. Clearcut + PB harbored more early successional species associated with seed banking, wind dispersal, deciduous foliage, and alien origin than wildfire or clearcut sites, which showed no specific trait associations. Taxonomic and trait analysis of clearcut + PB sites exhibited effects of compound disturbances, as observed after short-interval fires, supporting our alternate hypothesis. We concluded that PB after clearcutting formed plant communities significantly different from those developed either after clearcutting or wildfire alone. We attribute this community divergence to the compounding effects associated with the addition of prescribed fire to these previously disturbed forests.
40928241|The objectives of this study were to quantify rates of nitrogen inputs to the forest floor, determine rates of nitrogen losses via leaching and to partition the sources of NO from healthy, declining, and salvage or preemptively cut eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) stands in both an urban forest at the Arnold Arboretum in Boston, MA and a rural forest at Harvard Forest in Petersham, MA. Rates of nitrogen inputs (NH and NO) to the forest floor were 4-5 times greater, and rates of nitrogen losses via leachate were more than ten times greater, at the Arnold Arboretum compared to Harvard Forest. Nitrate that was lost via leachate at Harvard Forest came predominantly from atmospheric deposition inputs, whereas NO losses at the Arnold Arboretum came predominantly from nitrification. Although our study was limited to one urban and one rural site, our results suggest that current management regimes used to control the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae), such as salvage cutting, may be reducing nitrogen losses in urban areas due to rapid regrowth of vegetation and uptake of nitrogen by those plants. In contrast, preemptive cutting of trees in rural areas may be leading to proportionately greater losses of nitrogen in those sites, though the total magnitude of nitrogen lost is still smaller than in urban sites. Results of our study suggest that the combination of the hemlock woolly adelgid, nitrogen inputs, and management practices lead to changes in the movement and source of NO losses from eastern hemlock forest ecosystems.
3658622|The Florida Everglades is extremely oligotrophic and sensitive to small increases in phosphorus (P) concentrations. P enrichment is one of the dominant anthropogenic impacts on the ecosystem and is therefore a main focus of restoration efforts. In this review, we synthesize research on P biogeochemistry and the impact of P enrichment on ecosystem structure and function in the Florida Everglades. There are clear patterns of increased P concentrations and altered structure and processes along nutrient-enrichment gradients in the water, periphyton, soils, macrophytes, and consumers. Periphyton, an assemblage of algae, bacteria, and associated microfauna, is abundant and has a large influence on phosphorus cycling in the Everglades. The oligotrophic Everglades is P-starved, has lower P concentrations and higher nitrogen-phosphorus (N:P) ratios, and has oxidized to only slightly reduced soil profiles compared to other freshwater wetland ecosystems. Possible general causes and indications of P limitation in the Everglades and other wetlands include geology, hydrology, and dominance of oxidative microbial nutrient cycling. The Everglades may be unique with respect to P biogeochemistry because of the multiple causes of P limitation and the resulting high degree of limitation.
3658680|Global modeling has been used for decades to assess the possible futures of humanity and the global environment. However, these models do not always satisfactorily include the adaptive characteristics of systems. In this article, a general approach is used to simulate change and transition at a macrolevel due to adaptation at a microlevel. Tools from complex adaptive systems research are used to simulate the microlevel and consequently determine parameter values of the equation-based macrolevel model. Two case studies that applied this approach are reviewed. The first study assessed the efficacy of efforts to control malaria, whereas the second study used an integrated model to construct climate change scenarios by using various possible views on the nature of the climate system.
3658630|Understanding terrestrial carbon metabolism is critical because terrestrial ecosystems play a major role in the global carbon cycle. Furthermore, humans have severely disrupted the carbon cycle in ways that will alter the climate system and directly affect terrestrial metabolism. Changes in terrestrial metabolism may well be as important an indicator of global change as the changing temperature signal. Improving our understanding of the carbon cycle at various spatial and temporal scales will require the integration of multiple, complementary and independent methods that are used by different research communities. Tools such as air sampling networks, inverse numerical methods, and satellite data (top-down approaches) allow us to study the strength and location of the global- and continental-scale carbon sources and sinks. Bottom-up studies provide estimates of carbon fluxes at finer spatial scales and examine the mechanisms that control fluxes at the ecosystem, landscape, and regional scales. Bottom-up approaches include comparative and process studies (for example, ecosystem manipulative experiments) that provide the necessary mechanistic information to develop and validate terrestrial biospheric models. An iteration and reiteration of top-down and bottom-up approaches will be necessary to help constrain measurements at various scales. We propose a major international effort to coordinate and lead research programs of global scope of the carbon cycle.
41413036|Ectomycorrhizal (EM) networks are hypothesized to facilitate regeneration under abiotic stress. We tested the role of networks in interactions between P. menziesii var. glauca trees and conspecific seedlings along a climatic moisture gradient to: (1) determine the effects of climatic factors on network facilitation of Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco var. glauca (Mayr) seedling establishment, (2) infer the changing importance of P. menziesii var. glauca parent trees in conspecific regeneration with climate, and (3) parse the competitive from facultative effects of P. menziesii var. glauca trees on seedlings. When drought conditions were greatest, seedling growth increased when seedlings could form a network with trees in the absence of root competition, but was reduced when unable to form a network. Survival was maximized when seedlings were able to form a network in the absence of root competition. Seedling stem natural abundance C increased with drought due to increasing water use efficiency, but was unaffected by distance from tree or network potential. We conclude that P. menziesii seedlings may benefit from the presence of established P. menziesii trees when growing under climatic drought, but that this benefit is contingent upon the establishment of an EM network prior to the onset of summer drought. These results suggest that networks are an important mechanism for EM plants establishing in a pattern consistent with the stress-gradient hypothesis, and therefore the importance of EM networks to facilitation in regeneration of EM trees is expected to increase with drought.
3658607|Once the weathering of parent material ceases to supply significant inputs of phosphorus (P), vegetation depends largely on the decomposition of litter and soil organic matter and the associated mineralization of organic P forms to provide an adequate supply of this essential nutrient. At the same time, the decomposition of litter is often characterized by the immobilization of nutrients, suggesting that nutrient availability is a limiting factor for this process. Immobilization temporally decouples nutrient mineralization from decomposition and may play an important role in nutrient retention in low-nutrient ecosystems. In this study, we used a common substrate to study the effects of native soil P availability as well as artificially elevated P availability on litter decomposition rates in a lowland Amazonian rain forest on highly weathered soils. Although both available and total soil P pools varied almost three fold across treatments, there was no significant difference in decomposition rates among treatments. Decomposition was rapid in all treatments, with approximately 50% of the mass lost over the 11-month study period. Carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) remaining and C:N ratios were the most effective predictors of amount of mass remaining at each time point in all treatments. Fertilized treatments showed significant amounts of P immobilization (P < 0.001). By the final collection point, the remaining litter contained a quantity equivalent to two-thirds of the initial P and N, even though only half of the original mass remained. In these soils, immobilization of nutrients in the microbial biomass, late in the decomposition process, effectively prevents the loss of essential nutrients through leaching or occlusion in the mineral soil.
23328067|The availability of phosphorus (P) can limit net primary production (NPP) in tropical rainforests growing on highly weathered soils. Although it is well known that plant roots release organic acids to acquire P from P-deficient soils, the importance of organic acid exudation in P-limited tropical rainforests has rarely been verified. Study sites were located in two tropical montane rainforests (a P-deficient older soil and a P-rich younger soil) and a tropical lowland rainforest on Mt. Kinabalu, Borneo to analyze environmental control of organic acid exudation with respect to soil P availability, tree genus, and NPP. We quantified root exudation of oxalic, citric, and malic acids using in situ methods in which live fine roots were placed in syringes containing nutrient solution. Exudation rates of organic acids were greatest in the P-deficient soil in the tropical montane rainforest. The carbon (C) fluxes of organic acid exudation in the P-deficient soil (0.7 mol C m -2 month -1 ) represented 16.6% of the aboveground NPP, which was greater than those in the P-rich soil (3.1%) and in the lowland rainforest (4.7%), which exhibited higher NPP. The exudation rates of organic acids increased with increasing root surface area and tip number. A shift in vegetation composition toward dominance by tree species exhibiting a larger root surface area might contribute to the higher organic acid exudation observed in P-deficient soil. Our results quantitatively showed that tree roots can release greater quantities of organic acids in response to P deficiency in tropical rainforests.
23253732|For millennia, mankind has shaped landscapes, particularly through agriculture. In Europe, the age-old interaction between humans and ecosystems strongly influenced the cultural heritage. Yet European farmland is now being abandoned, especially in remote areas. The loss of the traditional agricultural landscapes and its consequences for biodiversity and ecosystem services is generating concerns in both the scientific community and the public. Here we ask to what extent farmland abandonment can be considered as an opportunity for rewilding ecosystems. We analyze the perceptions of traditional agriculture in Europe and their influence in land management policies. We argue that, contrary to the common perception, traditional agriculture practices were not environmentally friendly and that the standards of living of rural populations were low. We suggest that current policies to maintain extensive farming landscapes underestimate the human labor needed to sustain these landscapes and the recent and future dynamics of the socio-economic drivers behind abandonment. We examine the potential benefits for ecosystems and people from rewilding. We identify species that could benefit from land abandonment and forest regeneration and the ecosystem services that could be provided such as carbon sequestration and recreation. Finally, we discuss the challenges associated with rewilding, including the need to maintain open areas, the fire risks, and the conflicts between people and wildlife. Despite these challenges, we argue that rewilding should be recognized by policy-makers as one of the possible land management options in Europe, particularly on marginal areas.
25053885|In the southern California foothills and mountains, pronounced and complex topographic gradients support fire regimes that vary over short distances. We used LANDIS, a spatially explicit landscape model of disturbance and plant succession, to examine the resilience of dominant plant species, representing different disturbance response strategies, to the effect of varying fire rotation intervals (FRI). The simulated fire regimes represented natural, current and very long FRIs for the foothill shrublands less than 1,400 m (90, 30 and 150 years) and montane forest greater than 1400 m (30, 150, 500 years). The 30-year FRI allowed obligate resprouting shrubs to dominate over obligate seeders, whereas the 90-year FRI resulted in a stable spatial distribution of both of these shrub functional types. This is consistent with the literature that suggests that shifts in shrubland composition are most likely to result from human-caused increases in fire frequency at the low-elevation urban-wildland interface. An ecotone conifer, Pinus coulteri, showed dramatic shifts in distribution under different FRIs, and retreated to the portion of the landscape representing its temporal regeneration niche. Both low and high frequency fire maintained the fire tolerant dominant pine (P. jeffreyi) in the montane zone. This contradicts the literature that suggests that a high frequency ground fire regime is required for the persistence of a pine-dominated forest, but is consistent with studies showing that conifer forests in the western U.S. have experienced, and are resilient to, a broad range of natural FRIs that include low frequency, high intensity crown fires.
3658938|How will climate change affect the sustainability of Arctic villages over the next 40 years? This question motivated a collaboration of 23 researchers and four Arctic communities (Old Crow, Yukon Territory, Canada; Aklavik, Northwest Territories, Canada; Fort McPherson, Northwest Territories, Canada; and Arctic Village, Alaska, USA) in or near the range of the Porcupine Caribou Herd. We drew on existing research and local knowledge to examine potential effects of climate change, petroleum development, tourism, and government spending cutbacks on the sustainability of four Arctic villages. We used data across eight disciplines to develop an Arctic Community Synthesis Model and a Web-based, interactive Possible Futures Model. Results suggested that climate warming will increase vegetation biomass within the herd's summer range. However, despite forage increasing, the herd was projected as likely to decline with a warming climate because of increased insect harassment in the summer and potentially greater winter snow depths. There was a strong negative correlation between hypothetical, development-induced displacement of cows and calves from utilized calving grounds and calf survival during June. The results suggested that climate warming coupled with petroleum development would cause a decline in caribou harvest by local communities. Because the Synthesis Model inherits uncertainties associated with each component model, sensitivity analysis is required. Scientists and stakeholders agreed that (1) although simulation models are incomplete abstractions of the real world, they helped bring scientific and community knowledge together, and (2) relationships established across disciplines and between scientists and communities were a valuable outcome of the study. Additional project materials, including the Web-based Possible Futures Model, are available at http://www.taiga.net/sustain.
40928223|Episodes of drought-induced tree dieback have been recently observed in many forest areas of the world, particularly at the dry edge of species distributions. Under climate change, those effects could signal potential vegetation shifts occurring over large geographical areas, with major impacts on ecosystem form and function. In this article, we studied the effect of a single drought episode, which occurred in summer 2005, on a Scots pine population in central Pyrenees (NE Spain). Our main objective was to study the environmental correlates of forest decline and vegetation change at the plot level. General and generalized linear models were used to study the relationship between canopy defoliation, mortality and recruitment, and plot characteristics. A drought-driven multifactor dieback was observed in the study forest. Defoliation and mortality were associated with the local level of drought stress estimated at each plot. In addition, stand structure, soil properties, and mistletoe infection were also associated with the observed pattern of defoliation, presumably acting as long-term predisposing factors. Recruitment of Scots pine was low in all plots. In contrast, we observed abundant recruitment of other tree species, mostly Quercus ilex and Q. humilis, particularly in plots where Scots pine showed high defoliation and mortality. These results suggest that an altitudinal upwards migration of Quercus species, mediated by the dieback of the currently dominant species, may take place in the studied slopes. Many rear-edge populations of Scots pine sheltered in the mountain environments of the Iberian Peninsula could be at risk under future climate scenarios.
3658772| We evaluated changes in temperature and precipitation associated with climate change, subsidence, and erosion on a chronosequence of sites across Hawaii. The sites range in age from 0.3 to 4100 ky, and the current temperature and precipitation are similar at all sites. Interpretations of fossil pollen records suggest that cooler, dryer conditions prevailed in windward Hawaii during the last glacial period. If the previous glacial periods were similar, the 20-, 150-, and 1400-ky-old sites would have spent 60% or more of their development under relatively cool and dry conditions, whereas the 0.3- and 2.1-ky-old sites have experienced only the warmer, wetter climate of the present interglacial. Subsidence and erosion have also affected the temperature and precipitation of these sites over time; in the past, some of them have been in the dry air above the trade wind inversion or in the lee of larger mountains. Combining these components of change, we estimate that the average temperature over the history of Pleistocene-aged sites (20, 150, and 1400 ky) was up to 2.2C cooler and that the average precipitation was only about 50% of current values. Under current conditions, it would take only 230 ky for as much water to leach through the 1400-ky-old site as we calculate has leached over 1400 ky. Incorporating more reasonable assumptions about environmental history has the potential to allow more powerful interpretations of chronosequence data and thereby improve the predictive potential of models of soil and ecosystem development. 
25622891|Estimating root production has been difficult due to multiple potential biases associated with both old and new methods. This shortgrass steppe site is the only place we are aware of that can compare most methods including sequential coring, ingrowth cores, and ingrowth donuts, C pulse-isotope dilution, C pulse-isotope turnover, rhizotron windows, and minirhizotron, and indirect methods including nitrogen budget, carbon flux, simulation carbon flow model, and regression model. We used the studies at this site, other comparisons, a summary of potential directional biases, and different ways of calculating estimates in a logical, comparative approach of evaluating methods. Much of the literature for root production is based on sequential biomass coring, a method resulting in erroneous estimates. Root ingrowth estimates of production are generally conservative compared to minirhizotron and isotope turnover methods. The size of the ingrowth area may be the most important determinant of the understimation. Estimates based on pulse-isotope dilution are also erroneous due to non-uniform labeling of tissues. Uniform labeling is not an assumption of the pulse-isotope turnover method, and this method has the least severe potential biases. Root production estimates from pulse-isotope turnover were lower than those using minirhizotron when the most common method of calculation was used. This agrees with literature concerning bomb C continuous-isotope labeling comparisons with minirhizotron, although some potential biases between isotope methods are different. However, good agreement between pulse-isotope turnover and minirhizotron were obtained when minirhizotron estimates were calculated from regression of decomposition versus production to equilibrium and when pulse-isotope turnover estimates were calculated from two-phase life-span regressions. This minirhizotron method bypasses biases associated with the artificial surface similar to root-cohort methods that may be practical only in mesic systems, and takes into account both short- and long-lived roots and corrects for soil-isotope contamination that the continuous-isotope labeling bomb C method is not able to account for. Comparisons of these direct methods are also made with four indirect methods.
43677520|One of the most important changes taking place in drylands worldwide is the increase of the cover and dominance of shrubs in areas formerly devoid of them (shrub encroachment). A large body of research has evaluated the causes and consequences of shrub encroachment for both ecosystem structure and functioning. However, there are virtually no studies evaluating how shrub encroachment affects the ability of ecosystems to maintain multiple functions and services simultaneously (multifunctionality). We aimed to do so by gathering data from ten ecosystem functions linked to the maintenance of primary production and nutrient cycling and storage (organic C, activity of -gluco-observed when evaluating the functions in isolation. Overall, our results showed that M was higher at sites with higher sprouting shrub cover, longer distance to roads and higher perennial plant species richness. Our study is the first documenting that ecosystem multifunctionality in shrublands is enhanced by encroaching shrubs differing in size and leaf attributes. Our findings reinforce the idea sidase, pentoses, hexoses, total N, total available N, amino acids, proteins, available inorganic P, and phosphatase activity), and summarizing them in a multifunctionality index (M). We assessed how climate, species richness, anthropic factors (distance to the nearest town, sandy and asphalted road, and human population in the nearest town at several historical periods) and encroachment by sprouting shrubs impacted both the functions in isolation and M along a regional (ca. 350 km) gradient in Mediterranean grasslands and shrublands dominated by a non-sprouting shrub. Values of M were higher in those grasslands and shrublands containing sprouting shrubs (43 and 62%, respectively). A similar response was found when analyzing the different functions in isolation, as encroachment by sprouting shrubs increased functions by 2-80% compared to unencroached areas. Encroachment was the main driver of changes in M along the regional gradient evaluated, followed by anthropic factors and species richness. Climate had little effects on M in comparison to the other factors studied. Similar responses were that encroachment effects on ecosystem functioning cannot be generalized, and that are largely dependent on the traits of the encroaching shrub relative to those of the species being replaced.
40928233|Climatic variables, water quality, benthic fluxes, sediment properties, and infauna were measured six times over an annual cycle in a shallow subtropical embayment to characterize carbon and nutrient cycling, and elucidate the role of pelagicbenthic coupling. Organic carbon (OC) inputs to the bay are dominated by phytoplankton (mean 74%), followed by catchment inputs (15%), and benthic microalgae (BMA; 9%). The importance of catchment inputs was highly variable and dependent on antecedent rainfall, with significant storage of allochthonous OC in sediments following high flow events and remineralization of this material supporting productivity during the subsequent period. Outputs were dominated by benthic mineralization (mean 59% of total inputs), followed by pelagic mineralization (16%), burial (1%), and assimilation in macrofaunal biomass (2%). The net ecosystem metabolism (NEM = production minus respiration) varied between  4 and 33% (mean 9%) of total primary production, whereas the productivity/respiration (p/r) ranged between 0.96 and 1.5 (mean 1.13). Up to 100% of the NEM is potentially removed via the demersal detritivore pathway. Dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) inputs from the catchment contributed less than 1% of the total phytoplankton demand, implicating internal DIN recycling (pelagic 23% and benthic 19%) and potentially benthic dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) fluxes (27%) or  fixation (up to 47%) as important processes sustaining productivity. Although phytoplankton dominated OC inputs in this system, BMA exerted strong seasonal controls over benthic DIN fluxes, limiting pelagic productivity when mixing/photic depth approached 1.3. The results of this study suggest low DIN: TOC and net autotrophic NEM may be a significant feature of shallow sub-tropical systems where the mixing/photic depth is consistently less than 4.
41505998|Terrestrial ecosystems in the southern United States (SUS) have experienced a complex set of changes in climate, atmospheric CO concentration, tropospheric ozone (O), nitrogen (N) deposition, and land-use and land-cover change (LULCC) during the past century. Although each of these factors has received attention for its alterations on ecosystem carbon (C) dynamics, their combined effects and relative contributions are still not well understood. By using the Dynamic Land Ecosystem Model (DLEM) in combination with spatially explicit, longterm historical data series on multiple environmental factors, we examined the century-scale responses of ecosystem C storage and flux to multiple environmental changes in the SUS. The results indicated that multiple environmental changes shifted SUS ecosystems from a C source of 1.20  0.56 Pg (1 Pg = 10 g) during the period 1895 to 1950, to a C sink of 2.00  0.94 Pg during the period 1951 to 2007. Over the entire period spanning 1895-2007, SUS ecosystems were a net C sink of 0.80  0.38 Pg. The C sink was primarily due to an increase in the vegetation C pool, whereas the soil C pool decreased during the study period. The spatiotemporal changes of C storage were caused by changes in multiple environmental factors. Among the five factors examined (climate, LULCC, N deposition, atmospheric CO, and tropospheric O), elevated atmospheric CO concentration was the largest contributor to C sequestration, followed by N deposition. LULCC, climate, and tropospheric O concentration contributed to C losses during the study period. The SUS ecosystem C sink was largely the result of interactive effects among multiple environmental factors, particularly atmospheric N input and atmospheric CO.
3658918|The NITREX project, which encompasses seven ecosystem-scale experiments in coniferous forests at the plot or catchment level in northwestern Europe, investigates the effect of atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition in coniferous forests. The common factor in all of the experiments is the experimentally controlled change in N input over a period of 4-5 years. Results indicate that the status and dynamics of the forest floor are key components in determining the response of forests to altered N inputs. An empirical relationship between the carbon-nitrogen (C/N) ratio of the forest floor and retention of incoming N provides a simply measured tool through which the likely timing and consequences of changes in atmospheric N deposition for fresh waters may be predicted. In the terrestrial ecosystem, a 50% increase in tree growth is observed following the experimental reduction of N and sulfur inputs in a highly N-saturated site, illustrating the damaging effects of acidifying pollutants to tree health in some locations. Few biotic responses to the experimental treatments were observed in other NITREX sites, but the rapid response of water quality to changes in N deposition, and the link to acidification in sensitive areas, highlight the need for N-emission controls, irrespective of the long-term effects on tree health. The observed changes in ecosystem function in response to the experimental treatments have been considered within the framework of the current critical-load approach and thus contribute to the formulation of environmental policy.
40793006|The cycling of surface water, energy, nutrients, and carbon is different between semiarid grassland and shrubland ecosystems. Although differences are evident when grasslands are compared to shrublands, the processes that contribute to this transition are more challenging to document. We evaluate how surface redistribution of precipitation and plant responses to the resulting infiltration patterns could contribute to the changes that occur during the transition from grassland to shrubland. We measured soil water potential under grasses (Bouteloua eriopoda), shrubs (Larrea tridentata) and bare soil and changes in plant water relations and gas exchange following a 15 mm summer storm in the grasslandshrubland ecotone at the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in central New Mexico USA. Following the storm, soil water potential (s ) increased to 30 cm depth beneath both grass and shrub canopies, with the greatest change observed in the top 15 cm of the soil. The increase in s was greater beneath grass canopies than beneath shrub canopies. s under bare soil increased only to 5 cm depth. The substantial redistribution of rainfall and different rooting depths of the vegetation resulted in high *FS throughout most of the rooting volume of the grasses whereas soil moisture was unchanged throughout a large portion of the shrub rooting volume. Consistent with this pattern, predawn water potential (^PD) of grasses increased more than 5 MPa to greater than - 1 MPa whereas  PD of shrubs increased to 2.5 MPa, a change of less than 2 MPa. Transpiration increased roughly linearly with in both grasses and shrubs. In grasses, assimilation was strongly correlated with *FpD whereas there was no relationship in shrubs where assimilation showed no significant response to the pulse of soil moisture following the storm. These data show that preferential redistribution of water to grass canopies enhances transpiration and assimilation by grasses following large summer storms. This process may inhibit shrubland expansion at the ecotone during periods without extreme drought.
23501435|Ecosystem-based management requires integrated physical studies on biological functions. In this study, we hypothesized that seasonal variation in upwelling-favorable winds has differential influences on species of the central California Current pelagic ecosystem. To test this hypothesis, we developed multivariate indicators of upwelling and species' responses using wind and sea surface temperature (SST) data from buoys and growth and reproductive data for 11 species of fish and seabirds. From previous work, we predicted that winds and SST could be decomposed into winter and spring/ summer 'modes' of variability, but only a single mode of "winter/spring" environmental variability was observed. We attribute this difference from expectations to the local and shorter-term measurements of winds and SST used in this study. Most species responded to winds and SST variability similarly, but SST was a better predictor of most biological responses. Both SST and wind were better predictors than the traditional upwelling index. Notably, Pacific sardine (Sardinops sajax) was disassociated with the other biotic measurements and showed no relationships with coastal upwelling. The multivariate indicators developed here are particularly appropriate for integrated ecosystem assessments of climatic influences on marine life because they reflect both structure and processes (upwelling and timing/growth/productivity) known to determine functions in marine ecosystems.
41507777|Phosphorus (P) is one of main pollution elements of eutrophication. P emissions from different pathways and sources are a key issue in the protection of water quality and sustainable watershed management practices. We have estimated net anthropogenic P accumulation (NAPA), as an index of P pollution potential in the Beijing metropolitan region, China. The NAPA estimation is based on an inventory of P fertilizer use, consumption of human food and animal feed, non-food P, and riverine P net flux. The overall average NAPA for 1991, 1997, 2003, and 2007 are 777, 943, 1218, and 1084 kg P km y, about two times that reported in developed countries. The Urban unit has the largest NAPA (5526 kg P km y), whereas Mentougou P was negative, outputting 34 kg P km y. P input of fertilizer is the largest source of NAPA, accounting for 40.7% (455 kg P km y) of the total P input, followed by non-food P and P in human food and animal feed. NAPA is closely related to land use, on average 5433 kg P km y in densely populated developed land, 503 kg P km y in agricultural land and 84 kg P km y in forest land. Human population density is the best single predictor of NAPA. Our results provide a basis for understanding the potential impact of anthropogenic P inputs on environmental problems, such as nation-wide water quality degradation under the current rapid urban expansion in modern China.
40603509|Atmospheric nitrogen (N) fixation by Alnus tenuifolia can account for up to 70% of the N accumulated during vegetation development along river floodplains in interior Alaska. We assessed disease incidence and related mortality of a recent outbreak of fungal stem cankers on A. tenuifolia across three regions in Alaska during the 2005 growing season, and determined the impacts on N-fixation rates, nodule biomass, and stand-level N-fixation inputs. The highest percentage of ramets colonized or dead with canker was found on Tanana River plots, suggesting the epidemic is most severe in the Fairbanks region. A positive relationship between % basal area loss to canker and % canopy loss provides a simple means for assessing stand-level mortality associated with disease in the field. Although specific N-fixation (SNF) rates were not influenced by canker disease incidence of individual genets, live nodule biomass beneath alder canopies was inversely correlated with the percentage of ramets dead or with main ramet canker. Variations in SNF and live nodule biomass translated to differences in N-fixation inputs, which ranged from 22 to 107 kg N ha y across study regions. Nodule biomass was reduced by incidence of canker disease and related mortality an average of 24% across all sites, which translates to N input reductions of 8, 16, and 33 kg N ha for the three regions, respectively. During the 2008 growing season, we resurveyed the Tanana River plots and found that of the ramets larger than 4-cm diameter having main ramet canker in 2005, 74% are now dead; and for those without main ramet canker in 2005, 25% have developed main ramet canker, and 8% are dead. Thus, it is likely that N-fixation inputs have declined further below what we estimated for 2005.
41505963|Assessment of forest carbon (C) stock and sequestration and the influence of forest harvesting and climatic variations are important issues in global forest ecology. Quantitative studies of the C balance of tropical forests, such as those in Papua New Guinea (PNG), are also required for forest-based climate change mitigation initiatives. We develop a hierarchical Bayesian model (HBM) of aboveground forest C stock and sequestration in primary, selectively harvested, and El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO)-effected lowland tropical forest from 15 years of Permanent Sample Plot (PSP) census data for PNG consisting of 121 plots in selectively harvested forest, and 35 plots in primary forest. Model parameters indicated: C stock in aboveground live biomass (AGLB) of 137  9 (95% confidence interval (CI)) MgC ha in primary forest, compared with 62  18 MgC ha for selectively harvested forest (55% difference); C sequestration in primary forest of 0.23  1.70 MgC ha y, which was lower than in selectively harvested forest, 1.12  3.41 MgC ha y; ENSO-induced fire resulted in significant C emissions (6.87  3.94 MgC ha y). High variability between PSPs in C stock and C sequestration rates necessitated random plot effects for both stock and sequestration. The HBM approach allowed inclusion of hierarchical autocorrelation, providing valid CIs on model parameters and efficient estimation. The HBM model has provided quantitative insights on the C balance of PNG's forests that can be used as inputs for climate change mitigation initiatives.
25470324|Net ecosystem production (NEP), defined as the difference between gross primary production and total ecosystem respiration, represents the total amount of organic carbon in an ecosystem available for storage, export as organic carbon, or nonbiological oxidation to carbon dioxide through fire or ultraviolet oxidation. In some of the recent literature, especially that on terrestrial ecosystems, NEP has been redefined as the rate of organic carbon accumulation in the system. Here we argue that retaining the original definition maintains the conceptual coherence between NEP and net primary production and that it is congruous with the widely accepted definitions of ecosystem autotrophy and heterotrophy. Careful evaluation of NEP highlights the various potential fates of nonrespired carbon in an ecosystem.
43677502|In most temperate forest ecosystems, tree mortality over time generates downed logs that accumulate as coarse woody debris (CWD) on the forest floor. These downed logs and trunks have important recognized ecosystem functions including habitat for different organisms and long-term organic C storage. Due to its recalcitrant chemical composition and slow decomposition, CWD can also have direct effects on ecosystem carbon and nutrient turnover. CWD could also cause changes indirectly through the physical and chemical alterations that it generates, although it is not well-understood how important these indirect effects could be for ecosystem processes and soil biogeochemistry. We hypothesized that in an old-growth mature forest, CWD affects carbon and nutrient cycles through its "proximity effects", meaning that the forest floor near CWD would have altered soil biotic activity due to the environmental and biogeochemical effects of the presence of CWD. We conducted our study in an old-growth southern beech temperate forest in Patagonia, Argentina, where we estimated and classified the distribution and mass, nutrient pools and decay stage of CWD on the forest floor, and evaluated its impact on litter decomposition, soil mites and soil enzymatic activity of carbon and phosphorus-degrading enzymes. We demonstrate here that CWD in this ecosystem represents an important organic carbon reservoir (85 Mg ha) and nitrogen pool (0.42 Mg ha), similar in magnitude to other old-growth forests of the Northern Hemisphere. In addition, we found significant proximity effects of CWD, with increased C-degrading soil enzyme activity, decreased mite abundance, and more rapid litter decomposition beneath highly decayed CWD. Considered at the ecosystem scale in this forest, the removal of CWD could cause a decrease of 6% in soil enzyme activity, particularly in the summer dry season, and nearly 15% in annual litter decomposition. We conclude that beyond the established importance of CWD as a long-term carbon reservoir and habitat, CWD contributes functionally to the forest floor by influencing the spatial heterogeneity of microbial activity and carbon and nutrient turnover. These proximity effects demonstrate the importance of maintenance of this ecosystem component and should be taken into consideration for management decisions pertaining to carbon sequestration and functional diversity in natural forest ecosystems.
25470410|In 2001-03, continuous eddy covariance measurements of carbon dioxide (CO) flux were made above mature boreal aspen, black spruce, and jack pine forests in Saskatchewan, Canada, prior to and during a 3-year drought. During the 1st drought year, ecosystem respiration (R) was reduced at the aspen site due to the drying of surface soil layers. Gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) increased as a result of a warm spring and a slow decrease of deep soil moisture. These conditions resulted in the highest annual net ecosystem productivity (NEP) in the 9 years of flux measurements at this site. During 2002 and 2003, a reduction of 6% and 34% in NEP, respectively, compared to 2000 was observed as the result of reductions in both R and GEP, indicating a conservative response to the drought. Although the drought affected most of western Canada, there was considerable spatial variability in summer rainfall over the 100-km extent of the study area; summer rainfalls in 2001 and 2002 at the two conifer sites minimized the impact of the drought. In 2003, however, precipitation was similarly low at all three sites. Due to low topographic position and consequent poor drainage at the black spruce site and the coarse soil with low water-holding capacity at the jack pine site almost no reduction in R, GEP, and NEP was observed at these two sites. This study shows that the impact of drought on carbon sequestration by boreal forest ecosystems strongly depends on rainfall distribution, soil characteristics, topography, and the presence of vegetation that is well adapted to these conditions.
40296270|Ecological and evolutionary processes in temporary rock pools operate within constraints imposed by their hydrologic regimes. These shallow pools flood when seasonal rains accumulate on impermeable substrates. Despite the ecological importance of hydrologic conditions for these ecosystems, we typically lack tools and empirical data required to understand the implications of hydrologic variability and climate change for biotic populations and communities in these habitats. In this study, we developed a hydrologic model to simulate rock pool hydrologic regimes based on rainfall evapotranspiration, and basin geometry. The model was used to investigate long-term patterns of seasonal and interannual variation in hydroregime. In addition, hydrologic conditions associated with potential climate change scenarios were simulated and evaluated with respect to the biological requirements of the anostracan Branchipodopsis wolfi. The model's output for daily inundation matched with field observations with an overall accuracy of 85% and correctly estimated complete hydroperiods with an overall accuracy of 70%. Simulations indicate large variation in individual hydroperiods (76-115%) as well as in the number of hydroperiods per year (19-23%). Furthermore, this study suggests that climate change may significantly alter the rock pool hydroregime. These findings confirm the hydrologic sensitivity of these ephemeral habitats to precipitation patterns, and their potential sensitivity to future climate change. Modelling indicates that the suitability of average inundation conditions for B. wolfi deteriorates significantly under future climate predictions. High levels of spatial and temporal variation in hydrologic conditions are dominant features of these habitats and an essential consideration for understanding population and community-level ecological processes.
3658704|Selective foraging by large mammals can change ecosystem properties such as plant species composition, nutrient cycling rates, and soil fertility. These changes, in turn, alter the availability of forage and could affect the relative efficiencies of foraging strategies used by these animals. We used a simulation model to predict how alternate foraging strategies affected the net annual energy balance of moose (Alces alces), moose density, and distribution of browse across the landscape. The model simulates the spatial distribution of vegetation in an 8-ha landscape of 1- m
41505894|Natural braided river floodplains typically possess high groundwatersurface water exchange, which is vital to the overall function and structure of these complex ecosystems. Spring-fed streams on the floodplain are also hotspots of benthic invertebrate diversity and productivity. The sources of carbon that drive these productive spring-fed systems are not well-known. We conducted field assessments and a manipulation, modeling, and a laboratory experiment to address this issue. Initially C values of both dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) and food-web components of five springs were used to assess the sources of carbon to spring food webs. Partial pressures of CO in upwelling water ranged from 2 to 7 times atmospheric pressure, but rapidly approached equilibrium with the atmosphere downstream commensurate with C enrichment of DIC. Speciation modeling and a laboratory out-gassing experiment suggested that downstream changes in pH could be explained solely by CO out-gassing. However, field results indicated that both out-gassing and photosynthetic drawdown by aquatic plants controlled the net flux of CO. A whole stream manipulation indicated out-gassing was the primary effect at the spring source, which was confirmed by invariant diel pH. At 1296 m downstream from the spring source a large diel shift in pH indicated a plant effect on CO concentration which would contribute to the overall downstream gradient in C DIC. Within the first 1296 m the gradient in  DIC was transmitted through three trophic levels of the spring food web. These findings indicate dependency on groundwater inorganic carbon by spring stream food webs and strong hydrologically mediated linkages connecting terrestrial, subsurface, and aquatic components of the floodplain.
25622871|Carbon biogeochemistry of a tropical ecosystem (The Cochin Estuary, India) undergoing increased human intervention was studied during February (premonsoon), April (early monsoon) and September (monsoon) 2005. The Cochin estuary sustains high levels of pCO (up to 6000 atm) and CO effluxes (up to 274 mmolC m d) especially during monsoon. A first-order estimate of the carbon mass balance shows that net production of dissolved inorganic carbon is an order of magnitude higher than the net loss of dissolved and particulate organic carbon from the estuary. This imbalance is attributed to the organic inputs to the estuary through anthropogenic supplies. The bacteria-mediated mineralization of organic matter is mainly responsible for the build-up of pCO and increased CO emission to the atmosphere indicating heterotrophy. The linear correlation between excess CO and apparent oxygen utilization indicates respiration as the chief mechanism for CO supersaturation. An increase in the net negative ecosystem production (-ve NEP) between premonsoon (136 mmolC m d or 376 MgC d) and monsoon (541 mmolC m d or 1500 MgC d) is supported by a corresponding increase in O influxes from 17 mmol O m d (126 MgC d) to 128 mmol O m d (946 MgC d) and CO emissions from 65 mmolC m d (180 MgC d) to 267 mmolC m d (740 MgC d). There is a significant north-south gradient in metabolic rates and CO fluxes attributable to the varying flow patterns and anthropogenic inputs into the estuary. The study reveals that the Cochin estuary, a previously autotrophic (CO sink) system, has been transformed to a heterotrophic (CO source) system following rapid urbanization and industrialization. Moreover, the export fluxes from the Cochin estuary appear to be quite important in sustaining net heterotrophy in the southeastern Arabian Sea.
23501501|Food webs are increasingly evaluated at the landscape scale, accounting for spatial interactions involving different nutrient and energy channels. Also, while long viewed as static, food webs are increasingly seen as dynamic entities that assemble during vegetation succession. The next necessary step is, therefore, to link nutrient flows between ecosystems to local food web assembly processes. In this study, we used a 100-year salt marsh succession in which we investigated the long-term changes in food web organization, especially focusing on the balance between internal versus external nutrient sources. We found that during food web assembly, the importance of internal (terrestrial) nutrient cycling increases at the expense of external (marine) inputs. This change from external to internal nutrient cycling is associated with strong shifts in the basis of energy channels within the food web. In early succession, detritivores are mostly fuelled by marine inputs whereas in later succession they thrive on locally produced plant litter, with consequences for their carnivores. We conclude that this 100 years of food web assembly proceeds by gradual decoupling of terrestrial nutrient cycling from the marine environment, and by associated rearrangements in the herbivore and detritivore energy channels. Food web assembly thus interacts with nutrient and energy flows across ecosystem boundaries.
23328065|We evaluated the effects of different land-use systems on the ability of dung beetles to control the population of detritus-feeding flies. We tested the hypotheses that intensification of land use will reduce dung beetles richness, abundance and biomass and, consequently, their dung burial ability, affecting the interaction between dung beetles and flies and reducing its effectiveness as a natural biological control. In the Brazilian Amazon we sampled dung beetles, fly larvae and adults; and recorded the rate of dung removal by dung beetles across a gradient of land-use intensity from primary forest, secondary forest, agroforestry, agriculture to pasture. Our results provide evidence that land-use intensification results in a reduction of the richness, abundance and biomass of dung beetles, and this in turn results in lower rates of dung removal in the most simplified systems. We found no significant differences in the abundance of fly larvae between the different systems of land use. However, the number of adult flies differed significantly between land-use systems, presenting higher abundance in those sites with greater intensity of use (pasture and agriculture) and a lower abundance of adult flies in forested systems (primary and secondary forests, and agroforestry). Information-theoretic model selection based on AICc revealed strong support for the influence of land-use systems, dung removal rates and dung beetle abundance, biomass and richness on adult dung-fly abundance. Our results also reveal that dung beetles are not solely responsible for fly control and that other factors linked to land use are influencing the populations of these detritus-feeding insects.
40793012|Large amounts (389  39 m ha) of preserved dead wood buried by bryophytes were found in the organic layer (OL) of overmature (146-to 204-yearold) black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S.P.) forests in the high-boreal forest of eastern Canada. Standreplacing wildfires consumed the organic layer and killed the previous stands, producing snags, which subsequently fell and became buried by moss, resulting in large amounts of wood buried deep in the current organic layer. As new forest stands developed, self-thinning and senescence continuously produced minor amounts of woody debris (WD) for burial, most of which was located in the upper half of the organic layer. The experimental burial of standardized sample logs at various depths in the organic layer showed that burial significantly decreased WD temperature, increased WD moisture content, and tended to decrease WD respiration rates, indicative of reduced decomposition activity. WD preservation may be initiated by a live bryophyte cover, providing thermal insulation and moisture retention, generating an environment unfavorable to decomposition. As bryophytes are a vital component of many coniferous ecosystems throughout the circumpolar boreal and mountain forests, conditions conducive to WD burial are likely widespread. Buried wood may thus be of global relevance as habitat and a large mid-to long-term carbon store.
23501482|Antarctic sea ice and the cold waters surrounding the continent are key elements of the global climate system, influencing heat redistribution, oceanic circulation and the absorption of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. However, the Southern Ocean is predicted to warm by 16C over the next century, altering sea ice extent, thickness and permanence. To better understand the connections between coastal sea ice conditions and the functioning of Antarctica's unique marine benthic ecosystems, we performed manipulative experiments on the seafloor at two southwestern Ross Sea sites with contrasting sea ice conditions. Benthic systems at both study sites were net heterotrophic during the study period (early November), with primary production most likely limited by light availability rather than nutrients. There was five times more fresh algal detrital material in benthic sediments at the site with the thinner, snow-free, annually formed sea ice, relative to the site with thicker, multiyear sea ice. This elevated quantity and quality of algal detrital matter corresponded with a significantly greater rate of sediment oxygen utilization by the benthos and an altered pathway of nitrogen regeneration (tighter coupling between nitrification and denitrification). Large benthic animals (brittle stars, Ophionotus victoriae) enhanced the efflux of dissolved inorganic nutrients from the sediment to the water column and played a greater role in nutrient regeneration at the site with more food. Although changes in sea ice characteristics in the Western Ross Sea are difficult to predict at present, large benthic organisms can be expected to have an expanded role in mediating the effects of elevated coastal productivity and detritus supply on ecosystem dynamics in this part of Antarctica.
40296356|Restoration of anthropogenically eutrophied lake ecosystems is difficult due to feedback mechanisms that stabilize the trophically degraded state. Here, we show rapid recovery of a eutrophic stratified lake in response to multiple restoration that targeted the feedback mechanisms of high external and internal nutrient loads, lack of a trophic cascade, and lack of structured littoral habitats. Lake Tiefwarensee (Germany) was exposed to aluminium and calcium treatment and fisheries management over 5 years. Within this period, in-lake phosphorus concentrations declined by more than 80%, and transparency, zooplankton biomass and fish assemblage structure and biomass responded immediately and almost linearly to the reduction in phosphorus concentrations. Phytoplankton biomass and chlorophyll a (chl a) concentrations likewise decreased in response to restoration, but the declining trend was interrupted by one recovery year with unusually high phytoplankton biomasses. The zooplanktomphytoplankton biomass ratio and the chl a: phosphorus ratio approached values observed in other stratified lakes during natural recovery from eutrophication. The slow response of Tiefwarensee to the reduction of external load, and the quick response to the chemical treatment suggest that the disruption of internal P recycling and loading was the decisive restoration measure in Tiefwarensee. The external load reduction was a necessary but not sufficient measure, at least in the short-term, whereas the low-effort fisheries management was of minor importance. A comparison with other case studies confirms that measures aiming to inactivate phosphorus are the most efficient approaches to restore stratified lakes in the short-term, but a shift to a permanent near-pristine state is possible only by additional P input control.
3658645|Human societies are confronted with a continuous stream of new problems. Many of these problems are caused by a limited sector of society but cause "spillover costs" to society as a whole. Here we show how a combination of mechanisms tends to delay effective regualtion of such situations. Obviously, problems may remain undetected for some time, especially if they are unlike those experienced in the past. However, it is at least as important to address the dynamics preceding the solution because societies that are systematically slow in suppressing problems in the early phases will pay a high overall cost. Here we show how a combination of mechanisms tends to delay effective regulation. Obviously, problems may remain undetected for some time, especially if it is unlike those experienced in the past. However, even if a problem is recognized by experts, the time lag before society in general recognizes that something should be done can be long because of the hysteresis in change of opinion. This causes abrupt but late shifts in opinion, much as described for Kuhn's paradigm shifts. We use a mathematical model and review empirical evidence to show that this phenomenon will be particularly pronounced for complex problems and in societies that have strong social control, whereas key individuals such as charismatic leaders may catalyze earlier opinion shifts, reducing the time lag between problem and solution. An opinion shift may also be inhibited by downplay of a problem by a credible authority and by competition for attention by simultaneously occurring problems. Even if a problem is generally recognized, actual regulation may come late. We argue that this last phase of delay tends to be longer if a central decision-making authority is lacking and if disproportionately powerful stakeholders that benefit from the unregulated status quo are involved.
3658915|The results of bottle and mesocosm experiments were compared with those obtained in whole-ecosystem experiments at the Experimental Lakes Area. Unless they can be cleverly designed to mimic major ecosystem processes and community compositions, smaller-scale experiments often give highly replicable, but spurious, answers. Problems with appropriate scaling are difficult to deduce without direct comparisons with whole-ecosystem experiments. Reasons are many, but include inappropriate spatial scales to include whole communities, in particular predators and nocturnally active animals; temporal scales that are too short to assess accurately the response of slow-responding organisms and biogeochemical processes; and elimination of key littoral-pelagic and catchment-lake interactions. Identical studies of limnological processes in lakes of a large range of sizes reveals that scaling correction is also necessary when extrapolating from small lakes to large ones. Accurate management decisions cannot be made with confidence unless ecosystem scales are studied.
40296364|For the first time in an arctic long-term warming and fertilization experiment, the short-term (days) and longer-term (month and year) nitrogen (N) uptake and allocation in plants, microbes, and soil pools were studied, with N-labeling of an organic nitrogen form, glycine. The long-term warming and fertilization had no marked effect on soil inorganic N content, but both dissolved organic N (DON) and plant biomass did increase after fertilization. Soil microbes initially immobilized most of the added N, but in the following months, they lost two-thirds, while label concentration in plants increased. After a year, however, the N recovered in microbes was still 10-fold higher than that in the plant biomass, showing the high importance of soil microbes in nutrient retention in arctic ecosystems, irrespective of the impact of long-term warming or fertilization. The effects of the treatments on the uptake of label by deciduous shrubs and evergreens paralleled that of their N pool sizes, suggesting that their N uptake potential was unaffected by longterm warming and fertilizer addition. Mosses and herbs had high uptake potential but in fertilized plots they took up less N, that is, they were N saturated. The fraction of N in microbes tended to decrease after fertilization, but this was an effect of higher N pool dilution after 1 month and a year, and not due to lower initial uptake. Although the concentration of soil inorganic N did not change after fertilization, both increased DON and the results of the N label addition showed that the N availability in the ecosystem had increased. By contrast, warming had little effect on soil N pools and microbial N uptake, and, hence, had no detectable effects on N accumulation.
3658849|We studied invertebrate communities across a transition zone between soils and stream sediments in the cold desert landscape of Taylor Valley, Antarctica. We hypothesized that hydrological and biogeochemical linkages in the functionally important transition zone between streams and surrounding soils should be important in structuring invertebrate communities. We compared invertebrate communities along transects beginning in the saturated sediments under flowing stream water and extending laterally through the hyporheic zone to the dry soils that characterize most of the dry valley landscape. Nematodes, rotifers, and tardigrades assembled into different communities in soils and sediments, but there was no relationship between the total abundance of invertebrates and moisture. Community diversity was, however, influenced by the moisture and salinity gradients created with distance from flowing waters. The wet, low-salinity sediments in the center of the stream contained the most invertebrates and had the highest taxonomic diversity. Adjacent to the stream, communities in the hyporheic zone were influenced strongly by salt deposition. Abundance of invertebrates was low in the hyporheic zone, but this area contained the most co-occurring nematode species (three species). In dry soils, communities were composed almost entirely of a single species of nematode, Scottnema lindsayae, an organism not found in the stream center. These results suggest spatially-partitioned niches for invertebrates in soils and sediments in the dry valley landscape based on proximity to sources of moisture and the interactive effects of salinity.
25470378|Water availability defines and is the most frequent control on processes in arid and semiarid ecosystems. Despite widespread recognition of the importance of water in dry areas, knowledge about key processes in the water balance is surprisingly limited. How water is partitioned between evaporation and transpiration is an area about which ecosystem ecologists have almost no information. We used a daily time step soil water model and 39 years of data to describe the ecohydrology of a shortgrass steppe and investigate how manipulation of soil and vegetation variables influenced the partitioning of water loss between evaporation and transpiration. Our results emphasize the overwhelming importance of two environmental factors in influencing water balance processes in the semiarid shortgrass steppe; high and relatively constant evaporative demand of the atmosphere and a low and highly variable precipitation regime. These factors explain the temporal dominance of dry soil. Annually and during the growing season 60-80% of the days have soil water potentials less than or equal to -1.5 MPa. In the 0-15 cm layer, evaporation accounts for half of total water loss and at 15-30 cm it accounts for one third of the loss. Annual transpiration/actual evapotranspiration (T/AET) ranged from 0.4-0.75 with a mean of 0.51. The key controls on both T/AET and evaporation/actual evapotranspiration in order of their importance were aboveground biomass, seasonality of biomass, soil texture, and precipitation. High amounts of biomass and late timing of the peak resulted in the highest values of T/AET.
3658613|Although deforestation continues to be a major threat to tropical biodiversity, abandonment of agricultural land in Puerto Rico provides an opportunity to study long-term patterns of secondary forest regeneration. Using aerial photographs from 1937, 1967, and 1995, we determined land-use history for 2443 ha in the Cayey Mountains. Pastures were the dominant land cover in 1937 and <20% of the area was classified as forest. Between 1937 and 1995, forest cover increased to 62% due to widespread abandonment of agriculture. To examine the effect of historic land use on current forest structure and species composition, we sampled secondary forests in 24 abandoned pastures, 9 abandoned coffee plantations and 4 old-growth forest sites. Sites were located on two soil types along an elevational gradient (125-710 m) and included a chronosequence from 4 to over 80 years old. After 25-30 years, basal area and species richness in secondary forest sites derived from abandoned pastures and coffee plantations were similar to old-growth forest sites. The species composition of secondary forests derived from abandoned pastures and coffee plantations remained distinct from old-growth forest. In addition to historic land use, age and elevation were important environmental variables explaining variation in secondary forest species composition. Non-indigenous species were common in recently abandoned pastures and coffee plantations, but their importance declined in the older sites. This study demonstrates that secondary forests on private land can be an important component of the conservation of tropical tree biodiversity.
23501484|After rainfall and soils, fire and herbivory are two of the main determinants of savanna ecosystems. Although the interactive effects of fire and herbivores on soil and vegetation are widely acknowledged few studies have addressed these two factors in concert, and none of the studies has focused on the Kalahari sand system. We experimentally studied how annual late dry season fires and grazing affect herbaceous plant species composition, above- and belowground biomass, and soil and grass nutrient concentrations in the nutrient-poor semi-arid Kalahari system in northern Botswana. Four treatments (fire, grazing, fire + grazing, and no-fireno-grazing) were applied for two consecutive years in the late dry season. Plant species composition was affected by treatment and year. The no-fireno-grazing treatment was distinctly different from all the other treatments in terms of species composition. Beta diversity was lower on the fire treatment and grazing treatment, but not where fire and grazing were combined. Fire and grazing alone or in combination did not have a substantial effect on biomass, soil and plant nutrients or plant species alpha diversity. Plant nitrogen was the only element that differed between treatments, with high concentrations on all the grazed treatments in the first year and low levels on the fire-alone treatment during the second year. The results show that fire and grazing mainly affect species composition and large-scale biodiversity patterns as indicated by the no-fireno-grazing treatment being distinctly different from other treatments, suggesting the evolutionary adaptation of this dystrophic Kalahari sand system to herbivory and fire.
3658805|Ecosystems that function as critical transition zones (CTZs) among terrestrial, freshwater, and marine habitats are closely connected to the ecosystems adjacent to them and are characterized by a rapid flux of materials and organisms. CTZs play various roles, including mediating water flows, accumulating sediments and organic matter, processing nutrients, and providing opportunities for recreation. They are particularly difficult to manage because they tend to be small, albeit important, components of large water-sheds, and managers may not have control over the entire landscape. Moreover, they are often the focus of intensive human activity. Consequently, CTZs are critically important zones, and their preservation and protection are likely to require unique collaboration among scientists, managers, and stakeholders. Scientists can learn a great deal from the study of these ecosystems, taking advantage of small size and the importance of fluxes, but a good understanding of adaptive management strategies is needed to establish a dialogue with managers and stakeholders on technical and management issues. An understanding of risk analysis is also important to help set meaningful goals and establish logical strategies that include all of the interested parties. Successful restoration of a CTZ is the best test of the quality of knowledge about its structure and function. Much has already been learned about coastal CTZs through restoration projects, and the large number of such projects involving riparian CTZs in particular suggests that there is considerable opportunity for fruitful collaborations between scientists and managers.
40296293|Our understanding of the controls and magnitudes of regional CO exchanges in the Arctic are limited by uncertainties due to spatial heterogeneity in vegetation across the landscape and temporal variation in environmental conditions through the seasons. We measured daytime net ecosystem CO exchange and each of its component fluxes in the three major tundra ecosystem-types that typically occur along natural moisture gradients in the Canadian Low Arctic biweekly during the full snow-free season of 2004. In addition, we used a plant-removal treatment to compare the contribution of bulk soil organic matter to total respiratory CO loss among these ecosystems. Net CO exchange rates varied strongly, but not consistently, among ecosystems in the spring and summer phases as a result of ecosystem-specific and differing responses of gross photosynthesis and respiration to temporal variation in environmental conditions. Overall net carbon gain was largest in the wet sedge ecosystem and smallest in the dry heath. Our measures of CO flux variation within each ecosystem were frequently most closely correlated with air or soil temperatures during each seasonal phase. Nevertheless, a particularly large rainfall event in early August rapidly decreased respiration rates and stimulated gross photosynthetic rates, resulting in peak rates of net carbon gain in all ecosystems. Finally, the bulk soil carbon contribution to total respiration was relatively high in the birch hummock ecosystem. Together, these results demonstrate that the relative influences of moisture and temperature as primary controls on daytime net ecosystem CO exchange and its component fluxes differ in fundamental ways between the landscape and ecosystem scales. Furthermore, they strongly suggest that carbon cycling responses to environmental change are likely to be highly ecosystem-specific, and thus to vary substantially across the low arctic landscape.
23501485|Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) perform important ecological roles in stream ecosystems by provisioning nutrients as resource subsidies and modifying their physical habitat as ecosystem engineers. These contrasting roles result in concurrent nutrient enrichment and benthic disturbance, where local environmental characteristics potentially determine which effect predominates. Whole-stream metabolism quantifies the functional response to salmon and may identify patterns in enrichment and disturbance not apparent from structural measurements alone. We measured ecosystem respiration (ER) and gross primary production (GPP), along with chemical and physical characteristics, in seven Southeast Alaska streams and two Michigan streams, before and during the salmon run. These streams in the native and introduced ranges of salmon differed in environmental characteristics, from geomorphology at the reach scale to climate at the biome scale. Salmon consistently increased ER across streams and biomes, from an average (SE) of 1.92  0.23 g O 2 m -2 d -1 before salmon to 6.30  1.08 g O 2 m -2 d -1 during the run. In the cobble-bottom streams of Southeast Alaska, GPP doubled from 0.29  0.05 g O 2 m -2 d -1 before salmon to 0.66  0.16 g O 2 m -2 d -1 during the run. In contrast, GPP responded inconsistently to salmon in the sand-bottom Michigan streams, increasing in one and decreasing in the other. Patterns in ER and GPP among streams and time periods were predicted by stream water nutrients (for example, ammonium, soluble reactive phosphorus) rather than by physical characteristics (for example, light, sediment size, and so on). This study demonstrates that salmon can periodically override physical controls on ER and GPP and enhance whole-stream metabolism via their dual ecological roles as both resource subsidies and ecosystem engineers.
3659002| Forests with nitrogen-fixing trees (N-fixers) typically accumulate more carbon (C) in soils than similar forests without N-fixing trees. This difference may develop from fundamentally different processes, with either greater accumulation of recently fixed C or reduced decomposition of older soil C. We compared the soil C pools under N-fixers with Eucalyptus (non-N-fixers) at four tropical sites: two sites on Andisol soils in Hawaii and two sites on Vertisol and Entisol soils in Puerto Rico. Using stable carbon isotope techniques, we tracked the loss of the soil organic C from the previous C
3658982|Light interception is a driving variable for many key ecosystem processes in forests. Canopy gaps, as natural irregularities, are common features of Pacific Northwest conifer forests and have profound importance on the within-canopy light environment. We used two spatially explicit radiative transfer models (OLTREE and SolTran) to understand better the vertical profile distribution of light penetration in an old-growth forest. Canopy access at the Wind River Canopy Crane Research Facility provided an opportunity to apply these models in a tall, old-growth, Douglas-fir-western hemlock forest. Both models required three-dimensional descriptions for every crown (location, orientation, and size) in a 4-ha area. Crowns were then simulated as foliage-filled ellipsoids through which light is attenuated following Beer's law. We simulated vertical profiles (2-m height intervals) of transmitted photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) in 16 gaps previously measured by Parker (1997). Point-by-point comparisons (n = 480) between measured and modeled results showed little agreement because small errors in crown location yielded large local differences in PAR transmittance. However, average gap profiles (n = 16) of PAR transmittance showed excellent agreement
23501475|Belowground carbon (C) dynamics of terrestrial ecosystems play an important role in the global C cycle and thereby in climate regulation. Globally, land-use change is a major driver of changes in belowground C storage. The emerging bioenergy industry is likely to drive widespread land-use changes, including the replacement of annually tilled croplands with perennial bioenergy crops, and thereby to impact the climate system through alteration of belowground C dynamics. Mechanistic understanding of how land-use changes impact belowground C storage requires elucidation of changes in belowground C flows; however, altered belowground C dynamics following land-use change have yet to be thoroughly quantified through field measurements. Here, we show that belowground C cycling pathways of establishing perennial bioenergy crops (0- to 3.5-year-old miscanthus, switchgrass, and a native prairie mix) were substantially altered relative to row crop agriculture (corn-soy rotation); specifically, there were substantial increases in belowground C allocation (>400%), belowground biomass (400750%), root-associated respiration (up to 2,500%), moderate reductions in litter inputs (2040%), and respiration in root-free soil (up to 50%). This more active root-associated C cycling of perennial vegetation provides a mechanism for observed net C sequestration by these perennial ecosystems, as well as commonly observed increases in soil C under perennial bioenergy crops throughout the world. The more active root-associated belowground C cycle of perennial vegetation implies a climate benefit of grassland maintenance or restoration, even if biomass is harvested annually for bioenergy production.
27823718|Freshwater ecosystems derive organic carbon from both allochthonous and autochthonous sources. We studied the relative contributions of different carbon sources to zooplankton in a small, polyhumic, steeply stratified lake, using six replicate surface-to-sediment enclosures established during summer and autumn 2004. We added 13C-enriched bicarbonate to the epilimnion of half the enclosures for three weeks during each season and monitored carbon stable isotope ratios of DIC, DOC, POC and Daphnia, along with physical, chemical and biological variables. During summer, 13C-enriched DIC (13C up to 44  7.2) was soon taken up by phytoplankton (13C up to 5.1  13.6) and was transmitted to Daphnia (13C up to 1.7  7.2), demonstrating consumption of phytoplankton. In contrast, during autumn, 13C-enriched DIC (13C up to 56.3  9.8) was not transmitted to Daphnia, whose 13C became progressively lower (13C down to 45.6  3.3) concomitant with decreasing methane concentration. Outputs from a model suggested phytoplankton contributed 6484% of Daphnia diet during summer, whereas a calculated pelagic carbon mass balance indicated only 3040% could have come from phytoplankton. Although autumn primary production was negligible, zooplankton biomass persisted at the summer level. The model suggested methanotrophic bacteria contributed 6487% of Daphnia diet during autumn, although the calculated carbon mass balance indicated a contribution of 37112%. Thus methanotrophic bacteria could supply virtually all the carbon requirement of Daphnia during autumn in this lake. The strongly 13C-depleted Daphnia values, together with the outputs from the models and the calculated carbon mass balance showed that methanotrophic bacteria can be a greater carbon source for Daphnia in lakes than previously suspected.
25470338|We examined potential large-scale controls over the distribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and their host plants. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that AM fungi should be more prevalent in biomes where nutrients are primarily present in mineral, and not organic, forms. Values of percentage root length colonized (%RLC) by AM fungi, AM abundance, and host plant availability were compiled or calculated from published studies to determine biome-level means. Altogether, 151 geographic locations and nine biomes were represented. Percent RLC differed marginally significantly among biomes and was greatest in savannas. AM abundance (defined as total standing root length colonized by AM fungi) varied 63-fold, with lowest values in boreal forests and highest values in temperate grasslands. Biomes did not differ significantly in the percentage of plant species that host AM fungi, averaging 75%. Contrary to the hypothesis, %RLC, AM abundance, and host plant availability were not related to the size, influx, or turnover rate of soil organic matter pools. Instead, AM abundance was positively correlated with standing stocks of fine roots. The global pool of AM biomass within roots might approach 1.4 Pg dry weight. We note that regions harboring the largest stocks of AM fungi are also particularly vulnerable to anthropogenic nitrogen deposition, which could potentially alter global distributions of AM fungi in the near future.
3658921|We compared the species composition, structure and selected components of the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) budgets of similar-aged, mature boreal jack pine (Pinus banksiana Lamb.) forests with and without green alder [Alnus crispa (Ait.) Pursh.] in two different boreal environments. The C and N content of the overstory biomass components (for example, stem, branch, and foliage), total vegetation, forest floor, and mineral soil were greater (P = 0.05 to P = 0.10) for jack pine with alder (JPA) stands than for jack pine without alder (JP) stands at both study areas. Jack pine foliage N isotopic discrimination (
41507794|Sources of variation among the chemical and spectral properties of tropical forest canopies are poorly understood, yet chemical traits reveal potential ecosystem and phylogenetic controls, and spectral linkages to chemical traits are needed for remote sensing of functional and biological diversity. We analyzed 21 leaf traits in 395 fully sunlit canopies, representing 232 species and multiple growth forms, in a lowland mixed dipterocarp forest of Sarawak, Malaysia. Leaf traits related to light capture and growth (for example, photosynthetic pigments, nutrients) were up to 55% lower, and defense traits (for example, phenols, lignin) were 1540% higher, in the dominant family Dipterocarpaceae and in its genus Shorea, as compared to all other canopy species. The chemical variation within Dipterocarpaceae and Shorea was equivalent to that of all other canopy species combined, highlighting the role that a single phylogenetic branch can play in creating canopy chemical diversity. Seventeen of 21 traits had more than 50% of their variation explained by taxonomic grouping, and at least 16 traits show a connection to remotely sensed spectroscopic signatures (RMSE < 15%). It is through these chemical-to-spectral linkages that studies of functional and biological diversity interactions become possible at larger spatial scales, thereby improving our understanding of the role of species in tropical forest ecosystem dynamics.
3658733|Riparian buffer strips may protect streams from phosphorus (P) pollution. We compared 2 years of daily P-yield (
25470336|Under the warmer climate, predicted for the future, northern peatlands are expected to become drier. This drying will lower the water table and likely result in reduced emissions of methane (CH) from these ecosystems. However, the prediction of declining CH fluxes does not consider the potential effects of ecological succession, particularly the invasion of sedges into currently wet sites (open water pools, low lawns). The goal of this study was to characterize the relationship between the presence of sedges in peatlands and CH efflux under natural conditions and under a climate change simulation (drained peatland). Methane fluxes, gross ecosystem production, and dissolved pore water CH concentrations were measured and a vegetation survey was conducted in a natural and drained peatland near St. Charles-de-Bellechasse, Quebec, Canada, in the summer of 2003. Each peatland also had plots where the sedges had been removed by clipping. Sedges were larger, more dominant, and more productive at the drained peatland site. The natural peatland had higher CH fluxes than the drained peatland, indicating that drainage was a significant control on CH flux. Methane flux was higher from plots with sedges than from plots where sedges had been removed at the natural peatland site, whereas the opposite case was observed at the drained peatland site. These results suggest that CH flux was enhanced by sedges at the natural peatland site and attenuated by sedges at the drained peatland site. However, the attenuation of CH flux due to sedges at the drained site was reduced in wetter periods. This finding suggests that CH flux could be decreased in the event of climate warming due to the greater depth to the water table, and that sedges colonizing these areas could further attenuate CH fluxes during dry periods. However, during wet periods, the sedges may cause CH fluxes to be higher than is currently predicted for climate change scenarios.
3658654|We examined the effects of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
25470337|Our objective was to determine how varied is the response of C cycling to temperature and irradiance in tundra vegetation. We used a large chamber to measure C exchange at 23 locations within a small arctic catchment in Alaska during summer 2003 and 2004. At each location, we determined light response curves of C exchange using shade cloths, twice during a growing season. We used data to fit a simple photosynthesis-irradiance, respiration-temperature model, with four parameters. We used a maximum likelihood technique to determine the acceptable parameter space for each light curve, given measurement uncertainty. We then explored which sites and time periods had parameter sets in common-an indication of functional similarity. We found that seven distinct parameter sets were required to explain observed C flux responses to temperature and light variation at all sites and time periods. The variation in estimated maximum photosynthetic rate
40603654|Microphytobenthos plays a vital role in estuarine and coastal carbon cycling and food webs. Yet, the role of exogenous factors, and thus the effects of climate change, in regulating microphytobenthic biomass is poorly understood. We aimed to unravel the mechanisms structuring microphytobenthic biomass both within and across ecosystems. The spatiotemporal distribution of the biomass of intertidal benthic algae (dominated by diatoms) was estimated with an unprecedented spatial extent from time-series of Normalized Differential Vegetation Index (NDVI) derived from a 6-year period of daily Aqua MODIS 250-m images of seven temperate, mostly turbid, estuarine and coastal ecosystems. These NDVI time-series were related to meteorological and environmental conditions. Intertidal benthic algal biomass varied seasonally in all ecosystems, in parallel with meteorology and water quality. Seasonal variation was more pronounced in mud than in sand. Interannual variation in biomass was small, but synchronized yearto-year biomass fluctuations occurred in a number of disjointed ecosystems. Air temperature explained interannual fluctuations in biomass in a number of sites, but the synchrony was mainly driven by the wind/wave climate: high wind velocities reduced microphytobenthic biomass, either through increased resuspension or reduced emersion duration. Spatial variation in biomass was largely explained by emersion duration and mud content, both within and across ecosystems. The results imply that effects on microphytobenthic standing stock can be anticipated when the position in the tidal frame is altered, for example due to sea level rise. Increased storminess will also result in a large-scale decrease of biomass.
25053839|Soils play a key role in the global cycling of carbon (C), storing organic C, and releasing
3658738| This article describes new approaches for manipulation of temperature and water input in the field. Nighttime warming was created by reflection of infrared radiation. Automatically operated reflective curtains covered the vegetation at night to reduce heat loss to the atmosphere. This approach mimicked the way climate change, caused by increased cloudiness and increased greenhouse gas emissions, alters the heat balance of ecosystems. Drought conditions were created by automatically covering the vegetation with transparent curtains during rain events over a 2-5-month period. The experimental approach has been evaluated at four European sites across a climate gradient. All sites were dominated (more than 50%) by shrubs of the ericaceous family. Within each site, replicated 4-m  5-m plots were established for control, warming, and drought treatments and the effect on climate variables recorded. Results over a two-year period indicate that the warming treatment was successful in achieving an increase of the minimum temperatures by 0.4-1.2C in the air and soil. The drought treatment resulted in a soil moisture reduction of 33%-82% at the peak of the drought. The data presented demonstrate that the approach minimizes unintended artifacts with respect to water balance, moisture conditions, and light, while causing a small but significant reduction in wind speed by the curtains. Temperature measurements demonstrated that the edge effects associated with the treatments were small. Our method provides a valuable tool for investigating the effects of climate change in remote locations with minimal artifacts. 
3658813| We studied the effect of nutrient inputs on the carbon (C) budget of rocky shore communities using a set of eight large experimental mesocosms. The mesocosms received a range of inorganic nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) additions, at an N:P ratio of 16. These additions were designed to elevate the background concentration, relative to that in eutrophic Oslofjord (Norway) waters, by 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32 mol dissolved inorganic nitrogen
40296353|Interest in preserving older forests at the landscape level has increased in many regions, including the Pacific Northwest of the United States. The Northwest Forest Plan (NWFP) of 1994 initiated a significant reduction in the harvesting of older forests on federal land. We used historical satellite imagery to assess the effect of this reduction in relation to: past harvest rates, management of non-federal forests, and the growing role of fire. Harvest rates in non-federal large-diameter forests (LDF) either decreased or remained stable at relatively high rates following the NWFP, meaning that harvest reductions on federal forests, which cover half of the region, resulted in a significant regional drop in the loss of LDF to harvest. However, increased losses of LDF to fire outweighed reductions in LDF harvest across large areas of the region. Elevated fire levels in the western United States have been correlated to changing climatic conditions, and if recent fire patterns persist, preservation of older forests in dry ecosystems will depend upon practical and coordinated fire management across the landscape.
25470414|Natural disturbances are an important source of environmental heterogeneity that have been linked to species diversity in ecosystems. However, spatial and temporal patterns of disturbances are often evaluated separately. Consequently, rates and scales of existing disturbance processes and their effects on biodiversity are often uncertain. We have studied both spatial and temporal patterns of contemporary fires in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, California, USA. Patterns of fire severity were analyzed for conifer forests in the three largest fires since 1999. These fires account for most cumulative area that has burned in recent years. They burned relatively remote areas where there was little timber management. To better characterize high-severity fire, we analyzed its effect on the survival of pines. We evaluated temporal patterns of fire since 1950 in the larger landscapes in which the three fires occurred. Finally, we evaluated the utility of a metric for the effects of fire suppression. Known as Condition Class it is now being used throughout the United States to predict where fire will be uncharacteristically severe. Contrary to the assumptions of fire management, we found that high-severity fire was uncommon. Moreover, pines were remarkably tolerant of it. The wildfires helped to restore landscape structure and heterogeneity, as well as producing fire effects associated with natural diversity. However, even with large recent fires, rates of burning are relatively low due to modern fire management. Condition Class was not able to predict patterns of high-severity fire. Our findings underscore the need to conduct more comprehensive assessments of existing disturbance regimes and to determine whether natural disturbances are occurring at rates and scales compatible with the maintenance of biodiversity.
25470416|The temporal availability of propagules is a critical factor in sustaining pioneer riparian tree populations along snowmelt-driven rivers because seedling establishment is strongly linked to seasonal hydrology. River regulation in semi-arid regions threatens to decouple seed development and dispersal from the discharge regime to which they evolved. Using the lower Tuolumne River as a model system, we quantified and modeled propagule availability for Populus fremontii (POFR), Salix gooddingii (SAGO), and Salix exigua (SAEX), the tree and shrub species that dominate near-channel riparian stands in the San Joaquin Basin, CA. A degree-day model was fit to field data of seasonal seed density and local temperature from three sites in 2002-2004 to predict the onset of the peak dispersal period. To evaluate historical synchrony of seed dispersal and seasonal river hydrology, we compared peak spring runoff timing to modeled peak seed release periods for the last 75 years. The peak seed release period began on May 15 for POFR (range April 23-June 10), May 30 for SAGO (range May 19-June 11) and May 31 for SAEX (range May 8-June 30). Degree-day models for the onset of seed release reduced prediction error by 40-67% over day-of-year means; the models predicted best the interannual, versus site-to-site, variation in timing. The historical analysis suggests that POFR seed release coincided with peak runoff in almost all years, whereas SAGO and SAEX dispersal occurred during the spring flood recession. The degree-day modeling approach reduce uncertainty in dispersal timing and shows potential for guiding flow releases on regulated rivers to increase riparian tree recruitment at the lowest water cost.
3659044| In the extreme cold desert soil of the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antartica, we studied the effects of changing moisture and temperature on rates of decomposition and the activity and abundance of soil organisms. Our objective was to understand how moisture and temperature structure invertebrate communities and control important ecosystem processes and soil biotic activity in this extreme environment. First, in a field experiment, we manipulated soil moisture and temperature and compared cotton strip decomposition rates at two dry valley sites with different moisture regimes. At both sites, live nematode abundance and activity were unchanged by soil treatments over the 2-year study. In the same plots, the cotton strips did not decompose, despite soil warming and the addition of moisture. The results suggest that biological activity in the McMurdo Dry Valleys is severely limited and that soil organisms are not responsive to improving environmental conditions. Second, in microcosms, we manipulated dry valley soil moisture at a constant temperature of 10C and measured the rates of key soil processes. Soil respiration, nitrification, and the decomposition of cotton strips were all greater in dry valley soils that were wetted to 10% moisture content, as compared to soils at 0.6%. These results indicate that the decomposition potential for dry valley soils is high when moisture and temperature limitations are removed. In the field, however, this process was extremely slow, and biota did not respond to improving environmental conditions. Soil processes appear to be limited primarily by the extreme desiccation of the dry valleys. Ecosystems processes are likely restricted to the brief periods following infrequent snowfall, melt, and soil wetting that permit the activity of soil microbes and biota. 
40296367|Global declines of amphibian populations are well documented, yet effects of these declines on freshwater ecosystem structure and function are poorly understood. Here we examine responses of algal primary producers to tadpole extirpation over differing spatial and temporal scales. We experimentally excluded tadpoles from artificial substrata within localized areas (0.25 m) of two streams. One stream had an intact community of frogs (frog stream), and the other had recently experienced a catastrophic decline (frogless stream), leaving virtually no tadpoles. In the frog stream, there were significantly greater levels of chlorophyll a (+ 111%, P = 0.009), ash-free dry mass (AFDM) (+ 163%, P = 0.02), inorganic sediments (+114%, P = 0.001), and higher mean algal cell biovolume in tadpole exclusion treatments than in the tadpole access treatments. Correspondingly, overall AFDMspecific net primary production (NPP) increased by 38% (P = 0.001) and chlorophyll a-specific NPP increased by 29% (P = 0.001) in tadpole access treatments compared to tadpole exclusion treatments. Areal-specific NPP did not differ between treatments. There were no significant differences in chlorophyll a, AFDM, inorganic sediments, algal cell biovolume, or biomass-specific NPP between treatments in the frogless stream. Fifteen months after our experiments, a massive amphibian decline associated with a fungal pathogen occurred in the frog stream, resulting in the extirpation of over 90% of tadpoles. This extirpation was followed by significant increases in levels of chlorophyll a (269%, P = 0.001), AFDM (+220%, P < 0.001), and inorganic sediments (+ 140%, P = 0.001). Reach-scale NPP increased from -1587 to -810 mg DO m d . Additionally, algal community composition shifted from a dominance of small adnate diatoms (predecline) to a dominance of large upright algal species (post-decline). Our experimental results, combined with algal monitoring at the reach scale, indicate that over the course of our study catastrophic amphibian losses have significant effects on stream ecosystem structure and function. Ecosystem-level impacts of tadpole extirpations were more dramatic than results from our small-scale, short-term experiments, which predicted the direction of change in response variables but underestimated the magnitude. However, the long-term stream ecosystem responses remain unknown.
40928246|An intertidal San Francisco Bay salt marsh was used to study the spatial relationships between vegetation patterns and hydrologie and edaphic variables. Multiple abiotic variables were represented by six metrics: elevation, distance to major tidal channels and to the nearest channel of any size, edaphic conditions during dry and wet circumstances, and the magnitude of tidally induced changes in soil saturation and salinity. A new approach, quantitative differential electromagnetic induction (Q-DEMI), was developed to obtain the last metric. The approach converts the difference in soil electrical conductivity (ECa) between dry and wet conditions to quantitative maps of tidally induced changes in root zone soil water content and salinity. The result is a spatially exhaustive map of edaphic changes throughout the mapped area of the ecosystem. Spatially distributed data on the six metrics were used to explore two hypotheses: (1) multiple abiotic variables relevant to vegetation zonation each exhibit different, uncorrelated, spatial patterns throughout an intertidal salt marsh; (2) vegetation zones and habitats of individual plant species are uniquely characterized by different combinations of key metrics. The first hypothesis was supported by observed, uncorrelated spatial variability in the metrics. The second hypothesis was supported by binary logistic regression models that identified key vegetation zone and species habitat characteristics from among the six metrics. Based on results from 108 models, the Q-DEMI map of saturation and salinity change was the most useful metric of those tested for distinguishing different vegetation zones and plant species habitats in the salt marsh.
40296329|The hyphae of ectomycorrhizal and ericoid mycorrhizal fungi proliferate in nitrogen (N)-limited forests and tundra where the availability of inorganic N is low; under these conditions the most common fungal species are those capable of protein degradation that can supply their host plants with organic N. Although it is widely understood that these symbiotic fungi supply N to their host plants, the transfer is difficult to quantify in the field. A novel approach uses the natural N: N ratios (expressed as N values) in plants, soils, and mycorrhizal fungi to estimate the fraction of N in symbiotic trees and shrubs that enters through mycorrhizal fungi. This calculation is possible because mycorrhizal fungi discriminate against N when they create compounds for transfer to plants; host plants are depleted in N, whereas mycorrhizal fungi are enriched in N. The amount of carbon (C) supplied to these fungi can be stoichiometrically calculated from the fraction of plant N derived from the symbiosis, the N demand of the plants, the fungal C: N ratio, and the fraction of N retained in the fungi. Up to a third of C allocated belowground, or 20% of net primary production, is used to support ectomycorrhizal fungi. As anthropogenic N inputs increase, the C allocation to fungi decreases and plant N increases. Careful analyses of N patterns in systems dominated by ectomycorrhizal and ericoid mycorrhizal symbioses may reveal the ecosystem-scale effects of alterations in the plant-mycorrhizal symbioses caused by shifts in climate and N deposition.
25053863|There is substantial evidence that environmental changes on a landscape level can have dramatic consequences for the species richness and structure of food webs as well as on trophic interactions within such food webs. Thus far, the consequences of environmental change, and particularly the effects of invasive species and the fragmentation and isolation of natural habitats, have most often been studied in a purely ecological context, with the main emphasis on the description of alterations in species abundance and diversity and trophic links within food webs. Here, we argue that the study of evolutionary processes that may be affected by such changes is urgently needed to enhance our understanding of the consequences of environmental change. This requires an approach that treats species as dynamic systems with plastic responses to change rather than as static entities. As such, phenotypic plasticity on an individual level and genotypic change as a population level response should be taken into account when studying the consequences of a changing world. Using a multidisciplinary approach, we report on recent advances in our understanding, identify some major gaps in our current knowledge, and point towards rewarding approaches to enhance our understanding of how environmental change alters trophic interactions and ecosystems.
41505908|Increases in the elevation of the soil surfaces of mangroves and salt marshes are key to the maintenance of these habitats with accelerating sea level rise. Understanding the processes that give rise to increases in soil surface elevation provides science for management of landscapes for sustainable coastal wetlands. Here, we tested whether the soil surface elevation of mangroves and salt marshes in Moreton Bay is keeping up with local rates of sea level rise (2.358 mm y) and whether accretion on the soil surface was the most important process for keeping up with sea level rise. We found variability in surface elevation gains, with sandy areas in the eastern bay having the highest surface elevation gains in both mangrove and salt marsh (5.9 and 1.9 mm y) whereas in the muddier western bay rates of surface elevation gain were lower (1.4 and -0.3 mm y in mangrove and salt marsh, respectively). Both sides of the bay had similar rates of surface accretion (~7-9 mm y in the mangrove and 1-3 mm y in the salt marsh), but mangrove soils in the western bay were subsiding at a rate of approximately 8 mm y possibly due to compaction of organic sediments. Over the study surface elevation increments were sensitive to position in the intertidal zone (higher when lower in the intertidal) and also to variation in mean sea level (higher at high sea level). Although surface accretion was the most important process for keeping up with sea level rise in the eastern bay, subsidence largely negated gains made through surface accretion in the western bay indicating a high vulnerability to sea level rise in these forests.
25053803|We examined the impact of soil stress (low water and nutrient availabilities) and two keystone insect herbivores on pinyon pine (Pinus edulis) needle litterfall. We compared trees growing on two distinct soil types: volcanic cinders, which exhibit pronounced water and nutrient limitation, and sandy-loam soils, which have higher water-storage capacity and nutrient availability. Using two long-term herbivore removal experiments (15 and 18 years, respectively), we also examined the effects of the pinyon needle scale (Matsucoccus acalyptus, which attacks juvenile trees) and the stem-boring moth (Dioryctria albovittella, which attacks mature trees) on pinyon litterfall. These herbivores reach high densities on cinder soils but are absent or occur at much lower levels on sandy-loam soils. Four years of litterfall measurements showed four major patterns. First, independent of herbivory, needle litterfall was 20% lower under trees on high-stress cinder soils than on sandy-loam soils. Second, in agreement with the negative impact of scales on tree growth (that is, a 30% decline in stem growth), trees with scale infestations had 25% lower litterfall rates than trees resistant to scale; however, 15 years of scale-insect removal did not significantly increase needle litterfall. This implies possible intrinsic differences in litter production between scale-resistant and scale-susceptible trees. Third, in contrast with significant negative effects of moth herbivory on tree growth (that is, a 27% decline in stem growth), moth herbivory had no effect on needle litterfall. This, along with increased stem density in moth-susceptible trees, may be evidence of compensatory production. Fourth, there were strong year by soil type and year by scale herbivory interactions, such that in some years the effect on litterfall can be obscured or reversed by some other factor. In summary, soil stress has a strong and predictable effect on needle litterfall, whereas the relationship between insect herbivory and needle litterfall is weaker and depends on the individual herbivore. These effects, however, are mediated by other environmental factors that have considerable annual variation.
25053813|This article categorizes four kinds of adverse effects to human health caused by ecosystem change: direct, mediated, modulated, and systems failure. The effects are categorized on their scale, complexity, and lag-time. Some but not all of these can be classified as resulting from reduced ecosystem services. The articles also explores the impacts that different socioeconomic-ecologic scenarios are likely to have on human health and how changes to human health may, in turn, influence the unfolding of four different plausible future scenarios. We provide examples to show that our categorization is a useful taxonomy for understanding the complex relationships between ecosystems and human well-being and for predicting how future ecosystem changes may affect human health.
41505921|In water-limited ecosystems, where potential evapotranspiration exceeds precipitation, it is often assumed that plant invasions will not increase total ecosystem water use, because all available water is evaporated or transpired regardless of vegetation type. However, invasion by exotic species, with high water use rates, may potentially alter ecosystem water balance by reducing water available to native species, which may in turn impact carbon assimilation and productivity of cooccurring species. Here, we document the impact of invasion by an understory exotic woody species (Acacia longifolia) in a semi-arid Mediterranean dune pine forest. To quantify the effects of this understory leguminous tree on the water use and carbon fixation rates of Pinus pinaster we compare an invaded and a non-invaded stand. A. longifolia significantly altered forest structure by increasing plant density and leaf area index in the mid-stratum of the invaded forest. A. longifolia contributed significantly to transpiration in the invaded forest (up to 42%) resulting in a slight increase in stand transpiration in the invaded relative to non-invaded forest. More importantly, both water use and carbon assimilation rates of P. pinaster were significantly reduced in the invaded relative to non-invaded stand. Therefore, this study shows that exotic plant invasions can have significant impacts on hydrological and carbon cycling even in water-limited semi-arid ecosystems through a repartitioning of water resources between the native and the invasive species.
41505891|As part of a multidisciplinary project on carbon (C) dynamics of the ecosystems characterizing the Eastmain Region Watershed (James Bay, Quebec), the objective of this study is to compare the soil C stocks and soil organic matter quality among the main upland vegetation types in a boreal region subjected to a high fire frequency. On average, the organic layer contained twice the amount of C than the mineral soil. Closed canopy vegetation types had greater C stocks both in the mineral and in the organic layers than the other more open canopy vegetation types. Landscape features such as drainage and surfiaal deposit could not discriminate between vegetation types although closed vegetation. types were on average found on wetter site conditions. Average soil C contents varied more than 2-fold across vegetation types. On the opposite, except for the organic layer C:N ratio, which was smaller in closed vegetation types, other measured soil organic matter properties (namely specific rate of evolved C after a long-terai incubation, hydrolysis acid-resistant C as well as the rate of changes in soil heterotrophic respiration with increasing temperature (Q10)) remained within a narrow range between vegetation types. Therefore, total soil C stocks were a major determinant of both labile C and estimated summer soil heterotrophic respiration rate. The homogeneity of soil organic matter quality across the vegetation types could be attributable to the positive relationship between soil C storage and soil C fluxes observed in this landscape experiencing a high fire frequency. The low variability in soil C quality could help simplify the modelling of soil C fluxes in this environment.
25053865|Omnivory has been implicated in both diffusing and intensifying the effects of consumer control in food chains. Some have postulated that the strong, community level, top-down control apparent in lakes is not expressed in terrestrial systems because terrestrial food webs are reticulate, with high degrees of omnivory and diverse plant communities. In contrast, lake food webs are depicted as simple linear chains based on phytoplankton-derived energy. Here, we explore the dynamic implications of recent evidence showing that attached algal (periphyton) carbon contributes substantially to lake primary and secondary productivity, including fish production. Periphyton production represents a cryptic energy source in oligotrophic and mesotrophic lakes that is overlooked by previous theoretical treatment of trophic control in lakes. Literature data demonstrate that many fish are multi-chain omnivores, exploiting food chains based on both littoral and pelagic primary producers. Using consumer-resource models, we examine how multiple food chains affect fourth-level trophic control across nutrient gradients in lakes. The models predict that the stabilizing effects of linked food chains are strongest in lakes where both phytoplankton and periphyton contribute substantially to production of higher trophic levels. This stabilization enables a strong and persistent top down control on the pelagic food chain in mesotrophic lakes. The extension of classical trophic cascade theory to incorporate more complex food web structures driven by multi-chain predators provides a conceptual framework for analysis of reticulate food webs in ecosystems.
3658823|Forests in the American Pacific Northwest receive very little nitrogen (N) through atmospheric deposition; therefore, they can provide insights into how the N cycle functioned in other regions before heavy atmospheric deposition of inorganic N began. Our objectives were to determine (a) if the fate of organic N differed from the fate of inorganic N, (b) the effect that polyphenols have on the fate of organic N, and (c) the effect of season of addition on the fate of N inputs. We traced N added to in situ soil cores as ammonium, organic N, tannin-complexed organic N, and the N
40296275|Rural communities in the northern boreal forest depend on a suite of wild species for subsistence, including large game animals, furbearers, fish, and plants. Fire is one of the primary ecological disturbances and determinants of landscape pattern in the northern boreal forest. We review responses of key boreal subsistence species to variation and change in post-fire stand age and other characteristics. Available data for 17 species indicate highly varied post-fire habitat requirements. Mosaics of differing stand ages generated by fire could therefore be most effective in supplying a suite of subsistence species to hunting-and-gathering communities. Recent and projected increases in frequency of large-fire years might produce a more homogeneous landscape dominated by younger stand ages. Increases in fire suppression around communities might also produce a more homogenous landscape, but dominated by older stand ages. Neither of these scenarios provides mixed habitats for a diverse suite of subsistence species. We suggest that one aspect of the complex suite of human-fire interactions is an understanding of wildlife and plant species' response to fire in a subsistence region, in an effort to sustain ecosystem services critical to human well-being.
3659056|Resilience is the magnitude of disturbance that can be tolerated before a socioecological system (SES) moves to a different region of state space controlled by a different set of processes. Resilience has multiple levels of meaning: as a metaphor related to sustainability, as a property of dynamic models, and as a measurable quantity that can be assessed in field studies of SES. The operational indicators of resilience have, however, received little attention in the literature. To assess a system's resilience, one must specify which system configuration and which disturbances are of interest. This paper compares resilience properties in two contrasting SES, lake districts and rangelands, with respect to the following three general features: (a) The ability of an SES to stay in the domain of attraction is related to slowly changing variables, or slowly changing disturbance regimes, which control the boundaries of the domain of attraction or the frequency of events that could push the system across the boundaries. Examples are soil phosphorus content in lake districts woody vegetation cover in rangelands, and property rights systems that affect land use in both lake districts and rangelands. (b) The ability of an SES to self-organize is related to the extent to which reorganization is endogenous rather than forced by external drivers. Self-organization is enhanced by coevolved ecosystem components and the presence of social networks that facilitate innovative problem solving. (c) The adaptive capacity of an SES is related to the existence of mechanisms for the evolution of novelty or learning. Examples include biodiversity at multiple scales and the existence of institutions that facilitate experimentation, discovery, and innovation.
23501473|Despite a large number of studies focusing on the complexity of coral reef habitats and the characteristics of associated fish assemblages, the relationship between reef structure and fish assemblages remains unclear. The textural discontinuity hypothesis, which proposes that multi-modal body size distributions of organisms are driven by discontinuous habitat structure, provides a theoretical basis that may explain the influence of habitat availability on associated organisms. In this study we use fractal techniques to characterize patterns of cross-scale habitat complexity, and examine how this relates to body-depth abundance distributions of associated fish assemblages over corresponding spatial scales. Our study demonstrates that: (1) Reefs formed from different underlying substrata exhibit distinct patterns of cross-scale habitat complexity; (2) The availability of potential refuges at different scales correlates with patterns in fish body depth distributions, but habitat structure is more strongly related to the relative abundance of fish in the body depth modes, rather than to the number of modes; (3) As reefs change from coral- to algal-dominated states, the complexity of the underlying reef substratum may change, presenting a more homogenous environment to associated assemblages; (4) Individual fish body depth distributions may be multi-modal, however, these distributions are not static characteristics of the fish assemblage and may change to uni-modal forms in response to changing habitat condition. In light of predicted anthropogenic changes, there is a clear need to improve our understanding of the scale of ecological relationships to anticipate future changes and vulnerabilities.
3658983|We report measurements of rates of sap flow in dominant trees, changes in soil moisture, and evaporation from coarse woody debris in an old-growth Douglas-fir-western hemlock ecosystem at Wind River, Washington, USA, during dry periods in summer. The measurements are compared with eddy-covariance measurements of water-vapor fluxes above the forest
41413970|The generalization that plant communities increase in flammability as they age and invariably lead to resilient self-organized landscape mosaics is being increasingly challenged. Plant communities often exhibit rapidly saturating or even hump-shaped age-flammability trajectories and landscapes often display strong non-linear behaviors, abrupt shifts, and self-reinforcing alternative community states. This plethora of fire-landscape interactions calls for a more general model that considers alternative age-flammability rules. We simulated landscape dynamics assuming communities that (1) increase in flammability with age and (2) gain flammability up to a certain age followed by a slight and moderate loss to a constant value. Simulations were run under combinations of ignition frequency and interannual climatic variability. Age-increasing fire probability promoted high resilience to changes in ignition frequency and climatic variability whereas humpbacked-shaped age-flammability led to strong non-linear behaviors. Moderate (20%) reductions in mature compared to peak flammability produced the least resilient behaviors. The relatively nonflammable mature forest matrix intersected by young flammable patches is prone to break up and disintegrate with slight increases in ignition/climate variability causing large-scale shifts in the fire regime because large fires were able to sweep through the more continuous young/flammable landscape. Contrary to the dominant perception, fire suppression in landscapes with positive feedbacks may effectively reduce fire occurrence by allowing less flammable later stage communities composed of longer lived, obligate seeders to replace earlier stages of light demanding, often more flammable resprouters. Conversely, increases in anthropogenic ignitions, a common global trend of many forested regions may, in synergism with increased climate variability, induce abrupt shifts, and large-scale forest degradation.
43677506|Disturbance events strongly affect the composition, structure, and function of forest ecosystems; however, existing US land management inventories were not designed to monitor disturbance. To begin addressing this gap, the North American Forest Dynamics (NAFD) project has examined a geographic sample of 50 Landsat satellite image time series to assess trends in forest disturbance across the conterminous United States for 1985-2005. The geographic sample design used a probability-based scheme to encompass major forest types and maximize geographic dispersion. For each sample location disturbance was identified in the Landsat series using the Vegetation Change Tracker (VCT) algorithm. The NAFD analysis indicates that, on average, 2.77 Mha y of forests were disturbed annually, representing 1.09% y of US forestland. These satellite-based national disturbance rates estimates tend to be lower than those derived from land management inventories, reflecting both methodological and definitional differences. In particular, the VCT approach used with a biennial time step has limited sensitivity to low-intensity disturbances. Unlike prior satellite studies, our biennial forest disturbance rates vary by nearly a factor of two between high and low years. High western US disturbance rates were associated with active fire years and insect activity, whereas variability in the east is more strongly related to harvest rates in managed forests. We note that generating a geographic sample based on representing forest type and variability may be problematic because the spatial pattern of disturbance does not necessarily correlate with forest type. We also find that the prevalence of diffuse, non-stand-clearing disturbance in US forests makes the application of a biennial geographic sample problematic. Future satellite-based studies of disturbance at regional and national scales should focus on wall-to-wall analyses with annual time step for improved accuracy.
40603500|Fens are important components of Canada's western boreal forests, occupying about 63% of the total peatland area and storing about 65% of the peatland carbon. Rich fens, dominated by true moss-dominated ground layers, make up more than half of the fens in the region. We studied organic matter accumulation in three rich fens that represent the diversity in structural types. We used in situ decomposition socks, a new method that examines actual decomposition throughout the upper peat profile over an extended period of time. We coupled our carbon loss data with macrofossil analyses and dated peat profiles using Pb. Across the three rich fens and in the top 39 cm of the peat column, dry mass increases on average 3.1 times. From our dry mass loss measurements, we calculate that annual mass loss from the top 39 cm varies from 0.52 to 1.08 kg m. Vertical accumulation during the past 50 years has varied from 16 to 32 cm and during these 50 years, organic matter accumulation has averaged 174g m y compared to 527 g m y dry mass loss, with additional mass losses of 306 g m y from peat between 50 and 150 years of age. Organic matter accumulation from our rich fens compares well with literature values from boreal bogs, whereas peat bulk densities increase about three times within the uppermost 40 cm, much more than in bogs. Hence, rich fens accumulate peat not because the plant material is especially hard to decompose, is acidic, or has the catotelm especially close to the surface, but because dense, rapidly produced inputs outweigh the relatively rapid decomposition process of the upper peat column.
40603662|Although drought in temperate deciduous forests decreases transpiration rates of many species, stand-level transpiration and total evapotranspiration is often reported to exhibit only minor interannual variability with precipitation. This apparent contradiction was investigated using four years of transpiration estimates from sap flux, interception-evaporation estimates from precipitation and throughfall gauges, modeled soil evaporation and drainage estimates, and eddy covariance data in a mature oak-hickory forest in North Carolina, USA. The study period included one severe drought year and one year of well above-average precipitation. Normalized for atmospheric conditions, transpiration rates of some species were lower in drought than in wet periods whereas others did not respond to drought. However, atmospheric conditions during drought periods are unlike conditions during typical growing season periods. The rainy days that are required to maintain drought-free periods are characterized by low atmospheric vapor pressure deficit, leading to very low transpiration. In contrast, days with low air vapor pressure deficit were practically absent during drought and moderate levels of transpiration were maintained throughout despite the drying soil. Thus, integrated over the growing season, canopy transpiration was not reduced by drought. In addition, high vapor pressure deficit during drought periods sustained appreciable soil evaporation rates. As a result, despite the large interannual variation in precipitation (ranging from 934 to 1346 mm), annual evapotranspiration varied little (610-668 mm), increasing only slightly with precipitation, due to increased canopy rainfall interception. Because forest evapotranspiration shows only modest changes with annual precipitation, lower precipitation translates to decreased replenishment of groundwater and outflow, and thus the supply of water to downstream ecosystems and water bodies.
27823715|Climate change is predicted to bring about a water level (WL) draw-down in boreal peatlands. This study aimed to assess the effect of WL on the carbon dioxide (CO2) dynamics of a boreal oligotrophic fen ecosystem and its components; Sphagnum mosses, sedges, dwarf shrubs and the underlying peat. We measured CO2 exchange with closed chambers during four growing seasons in a study site that comprised different vegetation treatments. WL gradient in the site was broadened by surrounding half of the site with a shallow ditch that lowered the WL by 1025 cm. We modeled gross photosynthesis (PG) and ecosystem respiration (RECO) and simulated the CO2 exchange in three WL conditions: prevailing and WL draw-down scenarios of 14 and 22 cm. WL draw-down both reduced the PG and increased the RECO, thus leading to a smaller net CO2 uptake in the ecosystem. Of the different components, Sphagnum mosses were most sensitive to WL draw-down and their physiological activities almost ceased. Vascular plant CO2 exchange, en bloc, hardly changed but whereas sedges contributed twice as much to the CO2 exchange as shrubs in the prevailing conditions, the situation was reversed in the WL draw-down scenarios. Peat respiration was the biggest component in RECO in all WL conditions and the increase in RECO following the WL draw-down was due to the increase in peat respiration. The results imply that functional diversity buffers the ecosystem against environmental variability and that in the long term, WL draw-down changes the vegetation composition of boreal fens.
25053818|The complexity of natural ecosystems makes it difficult to compare the relative importance of abiotic and biotic factors and to assess the effects of their interactions on ecosystem development. To improve our understanding of ecosystem complexity, we initiated an experiment designed to quantify the main effects and interactions of several factors that are thought to affect nutrient export from developing forest ecosystems. Using a replicated 2  2  4 factorial experiment, we quantified the main effects of these factors and the factor interactions on annual calcium, magnesium, and potassium export from field mesocosms over 4 years for two Vermont locations, two soils, and four different tree seedling communities. We found that the main effects explained 56%-97% of total variation in nutrient export. Abiotic factors (location and soil) accounted for a greater percentage of the total variation in nutrient export (47%-94%) than the biotic factor (plant community) (2%-15%). However, biotic control over nutrient export was significant, even when biomass was minimal. Factor interactions were often significant, but they explained less of the variation in nutrient export (1%-33%) than the main effects. Year-to-year fluctuations influenced the relative importance of the main effects in determining nutrient export and created factor interactions between most of the explanatory variables. Our study suggests that when research is focused on typically used main effects, such as location and soil, and interactions are aggregated into overall error terms, important information about the factors controlling ecosystem processes can be lost.
41413969|Quantifying the controls on soil respiration is important for understanding ecosystem physiology and for predicting the response of soil carbon reservoirs to climate change. The majority of soil respiration is typically considered to occur in the top 20-30 cm of soils. In desert soils, where organic matter concentrations tend to be low and plants are deeply rooted, deeper respiration might be expected. However, little is known about the depth distribution of respiration in dryland soils. Here we show that the average depth of soil respiration between pulse precipitation events is almost always greater than 20 cm and is frequently greater than 50 cm in two central New Mexico desert shrublands. The average depth of soil respiration in a pion-juniper woodland was shallower, between 5 and 40 cm. In the shrublands, 8 seasonal variations in the carbon isotope composition of soilrespired CO (C r-soil ) that correlate with vapor pressure deficit support root/rhizosphere respiration as the dominant source of soil CO. Such deep autotrophic respiration indicates that shrubs preferentially allocate photosynthate to deep roots when conditions near the surface are unfavorable. Therefore, respiration rates in these soils are not necessarily correlated with root biomass. The  C r-soil values provide no evidence for CO evolved from soil inorganic carbon. Our results also suggest that organic carbon cycling is rapid and efficient in these soils and that the C value of CO respired from soils in much of the southwestern US, and perhaps in other semiarid regions, varies seasonally by at least 4.
41505951|We scale a model of net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE) for tundra ecosystems and assess model performance using eddy covariance measurements at three tundra sites. The model, initially developed using instantaneous (seconds-minutes) chamber flux (~m) observations, independently represents ecosystem respiration (ER) and gross primary production (GPP), and requires only temperature (T), photosynthetic photon flux density (I o ), and leaf area index (L) as inputs. We used a synthetic data set to parameterize the model so that available in situ observations could be used to assess the model. The model was then scaled temporally to daily resolution and spatially to about 1 km resolution, and predicted values of NEE, and associated input variables, were compared to observations obtained from eddy covariance measurements at three flux tower sites over several growing seasons. We compared observations to modeled NEE calculated using T and I o measured at the towers, and L derived from MODIS data. Cumulative NEE estimates were within 17 and 11% of instrumentation period and growing season observations, respectively. Predictions improved when one site-year experiencing anomalously dry conditions was excluded, indicating the potential importance of stomatal control on GPP and/or soil moisture on ER. Notable differences in model performance resulted from ER model formulations and differences in how L was estimated. Additional work is needed to gain better predictive ability in terms of ER and L. However, our results demonstrate the potential of this model to permit landscape scale estimates of NEE using relatively few and simple driving variables that are easily obtained via satellite remote sensing.
41505918|Relationships among aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and forest canopy properties were investigated in secondary successional forests of similar age and disturbance history in northern Lower Michigan, USA. Aboveground biomass, ANPP, canopy leaf area index (LAI), and several canopy nitrogen (N) measures were estimated from 12 stands representing major landform-level ecosystems and vegetation associations. Stand single-date and growing season average normalized difference vegetation indices (NDVI) were derived from Landsat TM. ANPP correlated most strongly with total canopy N content (r = 0.81, P < 0.001), followed by LAI (r = 0.37, P < 0.001) and area-based canopy-average leaf N concentration (r = 0.37, P < 0.05). No significant relationship was detected between ANPP and massbased canopy-average leaf N concentration. Stand ANPP correlated positively with both total canopy N content (r = 0.62, P < 0.05) and mass-based leaf N concentration (r = 0.53, P < 0.05) of commonly dominant Populus spp. Relatively higher ANPP, total canopy N content and LAI corresponded to simultaneous presence of shade-intolerant P. grandidentata with shade-tolerant species. Both forms of NDVI were significantly related to ANPP, and more strongly to total canopy N content and LAI; relationships were stronger for seasonally averaged (r > 0.75, P < 0.001) than for single-date NDVI (r > 0.52, P < 0.01). Results indicate that on the transitioning study landscapes, ANPP was more closely related to canopy N content than to LAI, seasonally averaged NDVI was a more reliable predictor of ANPP and canopy properties than the single-date index, whereas measured canopy characteristics varied significantly between major landform-level ecosystems. The ongoing decline of P. grandidentata is likely to alter aboveground carbon and pools and fluxes in the course of succession.
3658711|The ecosystem is a fundamental ecological concept that is not as simple as it first appears. We explore three key dimensions of the concept that make it both complex and broadly useful-its basic definition, its application via models to concrete or specific situations, and its metaphorical connotations as used in general communication within the domain of science and with the public at large. Clarity in identifying what the dimensions are and how they are related can help to maintain the rigor of the concept for specific scientific uses while also allowing enough flexibility for its use in the integration of scientific principles, as well as in public discourse. This analysis of the ecosystem as a multidimensional concept is likely to be generalizable to other important concepts in ecology.
3658829|The North Pacific Subtropical Gyre (NPSG) is the largest ecosystem on our planet. However, this expansive habitat is also remote, poorly sampled, and therefore not well understood. For example, the most abundant oxygenic phototroph in the NPSG, Prochlorococcus, was described only a decade ago. Other novel Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya, recently identified by nucleic acid sequence analysis, have not been isolated. In October 1988, an ocean time-series research program was established to study ecosystem processes in the gyre, including rates and pathways of carbon and energy flow, spatial and temporal scales of variability, and coupling of ocean physics to biogeochemical processes. After a decade of ecosystem surveillance, this sentinel observatory has produced an unprecedented data set and some new views of an old ocean. Foremost is evidence for dramatic changes in microbial community structure and in mechanisms of nutrient cycling in response to large-scale ocean-atmosphere interactions. These and other observations demand reassessment of current views of physical-biogeochemical processes in this and other open-ocean ecosystems.
23253688|The fire regime of ponderosa pine forests in the southwestern United States has shifted over the past century from historically frequent, low-intensity surface fires to infrequent, stand-replacing crown fires. We quantified plant and soil carbon (C) responses to this new fire regime and assessed interactions between changes in fire regime and changes in precipitation regime predicted by some climate models (specifically, an earlier monsoon rain season). We hypothesized that soil C pools and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) efflux rates would decrease initially following stand-replacing fires (due to low plant C inputs and the loss of the soil surficial organic (O) horizon), but then increase with time-after-fire (as plant C inputs increase). Water availability often limits soil biological activity in these forests, but we predicted that low soil C availability following fire would constrain soil CO 2 efflux responses to precipitation. In a series of sites with histories of stand-replacing fires that burned between 2 and 34 years prior to sampling, burned patches had lower soil C pools and fluxes than adjacent unburned patches, but there was no evidence of a trend with time-after-fire. Burned forests had 7,500 g C m -2 less live plant biomass C (P < 0.001), 1,600 g C m -2 less soil total C (P < 0.001) and 90 g C m -2 less soil labile C (P < 0.001) than unburned forests. Lower soil labile C in burned patches was due to both a loss of O horizon mass with fire and lower labile C concentrations (g labile C kg -1 soil total C) in the mineral soil. During the annual drought that precedes summer monsoon rains, both burned and unburned patches had soil CO 2 efflux rates ranging from 0.9 to 1.1 g CO 2 -C m -2 day -1 . During the monsoon season, soil CO 2 efflux in unburned patches increased to approximately 4.8 g CO 2 -C m -2 day -1 and rates in paired burned patches (3.4 g CO 2 -C m -2 day -1 ) were lower (P < 0.001). We also used field irrigation to experimentally create an earlier and longer monsoon season, and soil CO 2 efflux rates at both burned and unburned plots increased initially in response to watering, but decreased to below control (plots without irrigation) rates within weeks. Watering did not significantly change cumulative growing season soil CO 2 efflux, supporting our prediction that C availability constrains soil CO 2 efflux responses to precipitation. This research advances our understanding of interactions among climate, fire, and C in southwestern forests, suggesting that climate-induced shifts toward more stand-replacing fires will decrease soil C for decades, such that a single fire can constrain future soil biological responses to precipitation regime changes.
40296354|In an experimental study we assessed if benthic bioturbating invertebrates affect the recruitment (hatching) of zooplankton from the sediment, and if this effect persists as differences in the zooplankton community in the water column, that is, if bioturbation quantitatively stimulates benthic-pelagic coupling. We investigated the effects of four different benthic invertebrates (Asellus aquaticus, Chironomus plumosus, Tubifex tubifex in the presence or absence of the predator Sialis lutaria). In total, 45 zooplankton taxa hatched from the sediment and the hatching success of some of these was dependent on the species identity of the bioturbating invertebrate. The predator Sialis reduced the abundance of all three invertebrate species, but tended to positively influence the zooplankton recruitment rates, possibly through increasing the activity of the bioturbating invertebrates. The most striking effect of bioturbation on the hatching and pelagic zooplankton community properties was that, on average, 11% more species hatched in the Asellus treatment than in any other treatment. This was also mirrored in the zooplankton water column community where, on average, 7% more species established a viable population in treatments with Asellus as bioturbator. In a complementary field survey, Asellus was more common in littoral than in profundal sediments. Because Asellus strongly affected recruitment of zooplankton in our experiment, we argue that bioturbation may partly explain why recruitment of resting stages of both phyto- and zooplankton is generally higher in littoral than in profundal areas.
3658761|Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is an abundant form of organic matter in stream ecosystems. Most research has focused on the watershed as the source of DOC in streams, but DOC also comes from leaching of organic matter stored in the stream channel. We used a whole-ecosystem experimental approach to assess the significance of leaching of organic matter in the channel as a source of DOC in a headwater stream. Inputs of leaf litter were excluded from a forested Appalachian headwater stream for 3 years. Stream-water concentration, export, and instream generation of DOC were reduced in the litter-excluded stream as compared with a nearby untreated reference stream. The proportion of high molecular weight (HMW) DOC (more than 10,000 daltons) in stream water was not altered by litter exclusion. Mean DOC concentration in stream water was directly related to benthic leaf-litter standing stock. Instream generation of DOC from leaf litter stored in the stream channel contributes approximately 30% of daily DOC exports in this forested headwater stream. This source of DOC is greatest during autumn and winter and least during spring and summer. It is higher during increasing discharge than during base flow. We conclude that elimination of litter inputs from a forested headwater stream has altered the biogeochemistry of DOC in this ecosystem.
40296319|An oligotrophic phosphorus (P) limited seagrass ecosystem in Florida Bay was experimentally fertilized in a unique way. Perches were installed to encourage seabirds to roost and deliver an external source of nutrients via defecation. Two treatments were examined: (1) a chronic 23-year fertilization and (2) an earlier 28-month fertilization that was discontinued when the chronic treatment was initiated. Because of the low mobility of P in carbonate sediments, we hypothesized long-term changes to ecosystem structure and function in both treatments. Structural changes in the chronic treatment included a shift in the dominant seagrass species from Thalassia testudinum to Halodule wrightii, large increases in epiphytic biomass and sediment chlorophyll-a, and a decline in species richness. Functional changes included increased benthic metabolism and quantum efficiency. Initial changes in the 28-month fertilization were similar, but after 23 years of nutrient depuration T. testudinum has reestablished itself as the dominant species. However, P remains elevated in the sediment and H. wrightii has maintained a presence. Functionally the discontinued treatment remains altered. Biomass exceeds that in the chronic treatment and indices of productivity, elevated relative to control, are not different from the chronic fertilization. Cessation of nutrient loading has resulted in a superficial return to the pre-disturbance character of the community, but due to the nature of P cycles functional changes persist.
25470341|Our current ability to detect and predict changes in forest ecosystem productivity is constrained by several limitations. These include a poor understanding of belowground productivity, the short duration of most analyses, and a need for greater examination of species- or community-specific variability in productivity studies. We quantified aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) over 3 years (1999-2001), and both belowground NPP (BNPP) and total NPP over 2 years (2000-2001) in both mesic and xeric site community types of the mixed mesophytic forest of southeastern Kentucky to examine landscape variability in productivity and its relation with soil resource [water and nitrogen (N)] availability. Across sites, ANPP was significantly correlated with N availability (R = 0.58, P = 0.028) while BNPP was best predicted by soil moisture content (R = 0.72, P = 0.008). Because of these offsetting patterns, total NPP was unrelated to either soil resource. Interannual variability in growing season precipitation during the study resulted in a 50% decline in mesic site litter production, possibly due to a lag effect following a moderate drought year in 1999. As a result, ANPP in mesic sites declined 27% in 2000 compared to 1999, while xeric sites had no aboveground production differences related to precipitation variability. If global climate change produces more frequent occurrences of drought, then the response of mesic sites to prolonged moisture deficiency and the consequences of shifting carbon (C) allocation on C storage will become important questions.
23501303|Over the past 20 years, our understanding of soil nitrogen (N) cycling has changed with evidence that amino acids are major substrates for both soil microorganisms and plants. However, the recent discovery that plants and microorganisms can directly utilize small peptides in soil needs to be evaluated for its ecological significance, because peptides are released earlier in protein decomposition and thus would provide significant competitive advantage to any organism that can use them directly. We tested whether soil microorganisms took up peptides faster than amino acids across a broad range of ecosystems. We show that L-enantiomeric-peptidic-N is taken up significantly faster than the equivalent monomer, and that this is universal across soils from different ecosystems, with distinct microbial communities. Peptides may have an unrecognized, global, importance in the terrestrial N cycle, providing N to soil microorganisms at an earlier stage of decomposition than previously acknowledged.
25470358|Recent research has shown that genetic variation can directly impact community and ecosystem level processes. Populus tremuloides (trembling aspen) is an extremely widespread and genetically diverse tree species important to many North American forest ecosystems. Using leaf litter from five geno-types grown in a common garden under two nutrient treatments, we tracked litter decomposition in a natural aspen stand for 1 year. Here we show that aspen leaf litter decomposes and releases carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur in relation to its genetic identity. In a secondary experiment, we show that the genetic diversity of aspen litter mixtures can influence decomposition, however weakly so. Overall, nutrient treatments influenced leaf litter decomposition the most, followed by genetic identity, and then by genetic diversity (if at all in some cases). In this widespread, genetically diverse, and dominant species, genetic variation within a single species is important to ecosystem functioning. The relatively weak effect of genetic diversity on the processes measured here does not preclude its importance to ecosystem functioning, but does suggest that genetic identity and composition are more important than genetic diversity per se.
3658858|This study tested an hypothesis concerning patterns in species abundance in ecological communities. Why do the majority of species occur in low abundance, with just a few making up the bulk of the biomass? We propose that many of the minor species are analogues of the dominants in terms of the ecosystem functions they perform, but differ in terms of their capabilities to respond to environmental stresses and disturbance. They thereby confer resilience on the community with respect to ecosystem function. Under changing conditions, ecosystem function is maintained when dominants decline or are lost because functionally equivalent minor species are able to substitute for them. We have tested this hypothesis with respect to ecosystem functions relating to global change. In particular, we identified five plant functional attributes-height, biomass, specific leaf area, longevity, and leaf litter quality-that determine carbon and water fluxes. We assigned values for these functional attributes to each of the graminoid species in a lightly grazed site and in a heavily grazed site in an Australian rangeland. Our resilience proposition was cast in the form of three specific hypotheses in relation to expected similarities and dissimilarities between dominant and minor species, within and between sites. Functional similarity-or ecological distance-was determined as the euclidean distance between species in functional attribute space. The analyses provide evidence in support of the resilience hypothesis. Specifically, within the lightly grazed community, dominant species were functionally more dissimilar to one another, and functionally similar species more widely separated in abundance rank, than would be expected on the basis of average ecological distances in the community. Between communities, depending on the test used, two of three, or three of four minor species in the lightly grazed community that were predicted to increase in the heavily grazed community did in fact do so. Although there has been emphasis on the importance of functional diversity in supporting the flow of ecosystem goods and services, the evidence from this study indicates that functional similarity (between dominant and minor species, and among minor species) may be equally important in ensuring persistence (resilience) of ecosystem function under changing environmental conditions.
3659041|Although prokaryotes are small in size, they are a significant biomass component in aquatic planktonic ecosystems and play a major role in biogeochemical processes. A review of the recent literature shows that the relative importance of prokaryotes to material and energy fluxes is maximized in low-productivity (oligotrophic) ecosystems and decreases in high productivity (eutrophic) ecosystems. We conclude that competition with eukaryotic autotrophs for dissolved nutrients and competition with phagotrophic heterotrophs and physical processes (sinking, photooxidation) for organic carbon (C) play important roles in determining the relative abundance and impact of prokaryotes in aquatic systems. Oligotrophic systems have low nutrient concentrations, with high proportions of dissolved nutrients in organic form, which favors prokaryotic heterotrophs over phytoplankton. Furthermore, a high proportion of the available organic C is dissolved rather than particulate, which favors prokaryotic heterotrophs over phagotrophic heterotrophs. In eutrophic systems, increased relative concentrations and loading of inorganic nutrients and increased relative concentrations of particulate organic C select for phytoplankton and phagotrophic heterotrophs over prokaryotic heterotrophs. Increased particle sinking fluxes and/or decreased excretion of organic carbon (EOC) may also decrease the relative importance of prokaryotic heterotrophs in eutrophic systems. In oligotrophic systems, interactions between autotrophs and heterotrophs are tightly coupled because the dominant heterotrophs are similar in size and growth rates, as well as having similar nutrient composition to the dominant autotrophs, small phytoplankton. In eutrophic systems, increased productivity passes through zooplankton that are larger and have slower growth rates than the autotrophs, leading to a greater potential for decoupled auto- and heterotrophic production and increased export production.
40296291|Understanding the role of diversity in the functioning of ecosystems has important implications for agriculture. Previous agricultural research has shown that crop rotation and the use of cover crops can lead to increases in yield relative to monoculture; however, few studies have been performed within the broader context of diversity-ecosystem function theory and in the absence of chemical inputs. We performed a field experiment in SW Michigan, USA, in which we manipulated the number of crop species grown in rotation and as winter cover crops over a 3-year period to test if varying the number of species in a rotation affected grain yield, a critical metric of ecosystem function in row-crops. The experimental design was unique in that no fertilizer or pesticides were used, and the only management variable manipulated was number of species in the rotation, thus providing a strong comparison to grassland diversity-ecosystem function experiments. Treatments included continuous monocultures of three row-crops, corn Zea mays L., soybean Glycine max (L.) Merr., and winter wheat Triticum aestivum L., and 2-and 3-year annual rotations with and without cover crops (zero, one, or two legume/small grain species), encompassing a range of crop diversity from one to six species. Crop yields and weed biomass were measured annually for 3 years and plant available soil nitrogen was measured over the course of the growing season in the final year of the study. In all 3 years, corn grain yield increased linearly in response to the number of crops in the rotation. Corn yields in the highest diversity treatment (three crops, plus three cover crops) were over 100% higher than in continuous monoculture and were not significantly different from the county average for each of the 3 years despite the absence of chemical inputs. Corn yields in the diversity treatments were strongly correlated with the availability of inorganic soil nitrogen, which was likely influenced by the number of different legume species (crops and cover crops) present in the rotation. In soybean and winter wheat, yield differences among crop diversity treatments were also significant, but of lower magnitude (32 and 53%, respectively), and showed little direct relationship to the number of crop species grown in a rotation. Results demonstrate that agricultural research motivated by ecological theory can provide important insights into the functioning of agroecosystems and enhance our understating of the linkages between diversity and ecosystem function. Importantly, these results suggest that reduced chemical inputs do not necessarily result in yield penalties and provide support for incorporation of crop or species diversity when determining how ecosystem services can be included in food, fiber, and biofuel production.
41505865|Despite increasing interest in the patterns of trace gas emissions in terrestrial ecosystems, little is known about the impacts of climate change on nitrous oxide (NO) fluxes. The aim of this study was to determine the importances of the three main drivers of climate change (warming, summer drought, and elevated CO concentrations) on NO fluxes from an extensively managed, upland grassland. Over a 2-year period, we monitored NO fluxes in an in situ ecosystem manipulation experiment simulating the climate predicted for the study area in 2080 (3.5C temperature increase, 20% reduction in summer rainfall and atmospheric CO levels of 600 ppm). NO fluxes showed significant seasonal and interannual variation irrespective of climate treatment, and were highter in summer and autumn compared with winter and spring. Overall, NO emissions showed a positive correlation with soil temperature and rainfall. Elevated temperature had a positive impact on mean annual NO fluxes but effects were only significant in 2007. Contrary to expectations, neither combined summer drought and warming nor the simultaneous application of elevated atmospheric CO concentrations, summer drought and warming had any significant effect on annual NO fluxes. However, the maximum NO flux rates observed during the study occurred when elevated CO was combined with warming and drought, suggesting the potential for important, short-term NO-N losses in enriched CO environments. Taken together, our results suggest that the NO responses of temperate, extensively managed grasslands to future climate change scenarios may be primarily driven by temperature effects.
40296311|Regime shifts, or massive changes in ecosystems, are often associated with thresholds in drivers such as climate, land-use change, nutrient fluxes, or other factors. A frequently studied example is eutrophication, which is a serious environmental problem of lakes and reservoirs associated with phosphorus (P) enrichment above a threshold. We estimated probability distributions of thresholds for eutrophication of Lake Mendota, Wisconsin, USA using 30 years of annual P budgets. Although thresholds were likely to influence eutrophication of the lake (probability 96.6%), the probability distributions of thresholds spanned a wide range of P loading rates. Management recommendations are consistent with simpler models that recommend P load targets near or below the lowest P loads observed in the past 30 years. If loads increase, there is considerable risk of crossing a threshold to sustained eutrophication with high in-lake P concentrations and poor water quality. On the other hand, if loads decrease there is a chance of crossing a mitigation threshold, causing substantial reductions in P concentrations and improvements in water quality. Consideration of these risks will increase estimates of the net economic benefits of lower P loading. Our analysis illustrates a process for estimating probability distributions for thresholds of ecosystem regime shifts. Even though threshold probability distributions may be wide with thick tails, they provide crucial information about potential consequences of alternative policy choices.
25622873|The impact of atmospheric N-deposition on succession from open sand to dry, lichen-rich, short grassland, and tall grass vegetation dominated by Carex arenaria was surveyed in 19 coastal dune sites along the Baltic Sea. Coastal dunes with acid or slightly calcareous sand reacted differently to atmospheric wet deposition of 5-8 kg N ha Y. Accelerated acidification, as well as increased growth of Carex and accumulation of organic matter, was observed only at acid sites with ${\rm pH}_{{\rm NaCl}}$ of the parent material below 6.0. At sites with slightly calcareous parent material, increased N-deposition had no effect. A trigger for grass encroachment seems to be high acidification in early successional stages to below ${\rm pH}_{{\rm NaCl}}$ 4.0. Metals like Al or Fe become freely available and may hamper intolerant species. At acid sites, N-mineralization increases with elevated N-deposition, which may further stimulate Carex arenaria. Due to high growth plasticity, efficient resource allocation and tolerance of high metal concentrations, C. arenaria is a superior competitor under these conditions and can start to dominate the dune system. Carex-dominated vegetation is species-poor. Even at the moderate N-loads in this study, foliose lichens, forbs and grasses were reduced in short grass vegetation at acid sites. Species indicating these first effects of atmospheric deposition on dry, lichen-rich, short grasslands are identified and recommendations for restoration of grass-encroached sites given.
3658852|The massive reduction in sea urchin Diadema antillarum populations since the mid-1980s has been associated with large increases in the abundance of fleshy algae on many Caribbean reefs despite the availability of other sea urchin and finfish grazers. This study examined the ecology of a grazer living sympatrically with D. antillarum, the common and abundant sea urchin Echinometra viridis. I examined the role that finfish and invertebrate predators play in controlling the distribution of E. viridis as well as the ability of this sea urchin to control exposed fleshy algae on the patch reefs of the Glovers Reef Atoll lagoon. I found that the major predators of this sea urchin were Calamus bajonado (jolthead porgy), Balistes vetula and Canthidermis sufflamen (queen and ocean triggerfish), Lachnolaimus maximus (hogfish), and a gastropod, probably Cassis madagascariensis. The abundance of E. viridis is constrained by predation, which restricts E. viridis to cryptic locations, such as crevices. Sea urchins bit a smaller percentage of experimental algal assays than finfish. Finfish herbivory was associated positively with patch reef topographic complexity. Unexpectedly, E. viridis abundance was positively correlated with fleshy algal abundance, but negatively correlated with the frequency of finfish bites. Predators restrict E. viridis to crevices and therefore reduce their influence on exposed fleshy algae, even at moderately high population densities (up to 10 per square meter). Since net benthic primary production of coral reefs is most strongly associated with herbivory on exposed surfaces, it would appear that E. viridis is unable to maintain the same production as reefs dominated by D. antillarum.
25053806|The large organic carbon (C) pools found in noncultivated grassland soils suggest that historically these ecosystems have had high rates of C sequestration. Changes in the soil C pool over time are a function of alterations in C input and output rates. Across the Great Plains and at individual sites through time, inputs of C (via aboveground production) are correlated with precipitation; however, regional trends in C outputs and the sensitivity of these C fluxes to annual variability in precipitation are less well known. To address the role of precipitation in controlling grassland C fluxes, and thereby soil C sequestration rates, we measured aboveground and belowground net primary production (ANPP-C and BNPP-C), soil respiration (SR-C), and litter decomposition rates for 2 years, a relatively dry year followed by a year of average precipitation, at five sites spanning a precipitation gradient in the Great Plains. ANPP-C, SR-C, and litter decomposition increased from shortgrass steppe (36, 454, and 24 g C
25470322|Studies of the effects of precipitation on litter decomposition and nitrogen mineralization in arid and semiarid environments have demonstrated contradictory results. We conducted a manipulative experiment with rainout shelters in the semiarid Patagonian steppe, aimed at assessing the direct effects of water availability on litter decomposition and net nitrogen mineralization while isolating the indirect effects. We created four levels of precipitation input: control and three levels (30, 55 and 80%) of precipitation interception and we examined litter decomposition and nutrient release of a dominant grass species, Stipa speciosa, inorganic soil nitrogen, and in situ net nitrogen mineralization over two consecutive years. Litter decomposition rates (k, year) varied significantly (P < 0.001) among precipitation interception treatments and were positively correlated with incoming annual precipitation (APPT, mm/year) (k = 0.0007  APPT + 0.137). In contrast, net N mineralization was not correlated with incoming precipitation. Soil NO significantly decreased with increasing precipitation input, whereas soil NH concentration did not differ among precipitation interception treatments. Controls of water input on litter decomposition appear to be different from controls on N mineralization in the semiarid Patagonian steppe. We suggest that although water availability affects both the mineralization of C and N, it differentially affects the movement and fate of the inorganic products. A consequence of the accumulation of inorganic N during dry episodes is that periods of maximum water and soil nutrient availability may occur at different times. This asynchrony in the availability of N and water in the soil may explain the observed lags in the response of primary production to increases in water availability.
40296284|We investigated the mechanisms that determine the quality and quantity of organic carbon (C) stocks in boreal forest soils by analyzing both qualitative and quantitative changes in the organic fractions in the soil organic matter (OM) in a vertical gradient in the decomposition continuum of the organic horizon [litter layer (L), fermentation layer (F), and humus layer (H)] in forest soils using a sequential fractionation method at two forest types along a climatic gradient in Finland. We predicted that the concentrations of water-soluble (WSE) and non-polar (NPE) extractives should decrease and those of the acid-soluble (AS) fraction and acid-insoluble residue (AIR) should increase from the L to the F, and from the F to the H layers, but the C/N ratio of soil OM should stay constant after reaching the critical quotient. We also predicted that the AIR concentrations should be higher in the south than north boreal, and in sub-xeric than mesic forests. Consistent with our hypothesis, the concentrations of WSE and NPE fractions decreased and concentrations of AIR increased in the vertical soil gradient. The highest concentrations of the AS fraction were found in the F layer. The C/N ratio was lowest in the F layer, and the highest in the H layer, indicating that soil OM is depleted in N in relation to C along the vertical soil gradient. Concentrations of WSE and NPE were lower, and concentrations of AIR were higher in the south than in north boreal forests, which is in agreement with our hypothesis that higher soil temperatures may enhance accumulation of slowly decomposable OM in the soil. The concentrations of AIR were higher in the sub-xeric than mesic forests. Contrary to our expectations, however, the differences in the chemical quality in soil OM between the site types were amplified from the L to the H layer. The size of the C storage was significantly larger in south than north boreal sites, and larger in the mesic than in the sub-xeric sites.
41505970|A model of the mosquito-mangrove basin ecosystem is presented detailing the habitat of the saltwater mosquito Aedes vigilax utilizing mangrove basin forests in Australia. The modeling included a synthesis of empirical observations and published descriptions including the insect's relevant lifestages, mangrove basin topography and hydrodynamics. Shallow mangrove basins periodically connected by only the highest 10% of high tides with a hummocky substrate micro-topography characterize the main mangrove form conducive to Ae. vigilax breeding. Other essential features include the synchronization of the mosquito's lifecycle to basin hydrodynamics and thus an intricate relationship between hydrodynamics and basin structure. Very small decreases in basin water level (~ 1 cm/day) lead to significant decreases in extent of standing water (for example, 60% over 6 days) across the basin. This results in corresponding increases in the extent of exposed substrate. Also, the modeling demonstrated sensitivity of the mosquito- mangrove basin ecosystem to sea level changes. A hydrologie model of the basin was used to predict mosquito breeding episodes which were tested against a mosquito management larviciding program. The model predicted 75% of all 29 larviciding treatments undertaken. Comparing the model against the two triggers used by mosquito control, tides and rainfall, the model predicted 92% of tidally instigated treatments and 60% of rainfall instigated treatments. Application of the model enables consideration of environment-based minimal habitat modification for mosquito control in mangroves, not previously possible. The model will be applicable to similar species, such as Ae. taeniorhynchus, found in Florida's (USA) mangroves.
41505928|We present an approach to modeling potential climate-driven changes in habitat for tree and bird species in the eastern United States. First we took an empirical-statistical modeling approach, using randomForest, with species abundance data from national inventories combined with soil, climate, and landscape variables, to build abundance-based habitat models for 134 tree and 147 bird species. We produced lists of species for which suitable habitat tends to increase, decrease, or stay the same for any region. Independent assessments of trends of large trees versus seedlings across the eastern U.S. show that 37 of 40 species in common under both studies are currently trending as modeled. We developed a framework, ModFacs, in which we used the literature to assign default modification factor scores for species characteristics that cannot be readily assessed in such models, including 12 disturbance factors (for example, drought, fire, insect pests), nine biological factors (for example, dispersal, shade tolerance), and assessment scores of novel climates, long-distance extrapolations, and output variability by climate model and emission scenario. We also used a spatially explicit cellular model, SHIFT, to calculate colonization potentials for some species, based on their abundance, historic dispersal distances, and the fragmented nature of the landscape. By combining results from the three efforts, we can create projections of potential climate change impacts over the next 100 years or so. Here we emphasize some of the lessons we have learned over 16 years in hopes that they may help guide future experiments, modeling efforts, and management.
25053840|The lack of a clear understanding of the factors governing the often-great variation of species numbers over entire landscapes confounds attempts to manage biodiversity. We hypothesized that in a topographically variable boreal forest landscape the availability of shallow groundwater is a major determinant of plant species numbers. We then developed a topographically derived hydrologic index based on multidirectional flow algorithms to account for the variation in availability of such groundwater in the landscape. We found a positive correlation between species numbers of vascular plants in plots ranging from 0.01 to 200
40296369|During the past 10-15 years removal of planktiand benthivorous fish (mainly roach, Rutilus rutilus, and bream, Abramis brama) has commonly been used as a method to improve the ecological quality of Danish lakes. Here, we examine the general and long-term effects obtained after the removal of 41-1360 kg fish ha in 36 mainly shallow and eutrophic lakes. In lakes in which less than 200 kg fish ha were removed within a 3-year period only minor effects were observed, but at higher removal rates both chemical and biological variables were markedly affected. The concentrations of chlorophyll a (Chla), total phosphorus (TP), total nitrogen (TN), and suspended solids (SS) decreased to 50-70% of the level prior to removal. The most significant and long-lasting effects were found for SS and Secchi depth, whereas the most modest effects were seen for Chla. This probably reflects an efficient and persistent reduction of the bream stock which reduced resuspension and SS, while the biomass of roach returned to former levels, decreasing the zooplankton grazing with less control on Chla. Total algal biomass also declined after fish removal, particularly that of cyanobacteria, whereas the biomass of cryptophytes increased, indicating enhanced grazing pressure by zooplankton. The abundance and species number of submerged macrophytes increased in the majority of the lakes. For most variables the effects of the fish removal were significant for 6-10 years, after which many lakes tended to return to pre-restoration conditions, probably mainly because of consistently high external and internal phosphorus loading. We conclude that a sufficiently extensive removal of plankti-and benthivorous fish is an efficient tool to create clear water; however, repeated fish removal is presumably required to obtain long-term effects in the most nutrient rich lakes.
3658712|Tunnels in feldspar grains, assumed to be created by fungal hyphae, were first discovered in a boreal podzol. In this paper, we further describe the phenomenon of mineral tunneling by determining the rate of feldspar tunneling across a north Sweden podzol chronosequence. The chronosequence is a result of ongoing land uplift, which started after the retreat of glaciers about 9000 years ago. The sequence comprises a series of soils that began developing on glacial tills 190-7800 years ago. Feldspar tunneling was concentrated in the uppermost 2 cm of the E horizon, and its frequency increased significantly with soil age. Although no tunnels were found in feldspar grains from the youngest soil (190 years), they were seen more frequently in soils aged 2000 years and older. This lag phase in tunnel formation of about 2000 years coincided with the disappearance of the easily weatherable potassium-(K) and calcium (Ca)-containing minerals biotite and hornblende and with the appearance of etch pits on feldspar grains. In the oldest soil (7800 y), about 25% of the feldspar grains in the upper 2 cm of the E horizon were tunneled. Within site variation in tunnel frequency was high, and we were able to exclude spatial variations in mineralogy and texture as a possible explanation. The shape of the tunnels, their depth distribution, and the fungal hyphae found inside them all offer support for the previous assumption that their formation is mediated by biological activity involving fungi. The results of this investigation also indicate that the bioavailability of Ca and K may be a factor in tunnel formation.
40296363|Forest regrowth after cropland abandonment and urban sprawl are two counteracting processes that have influenced carbon (C) sequestration in the southeastern United States in recent decades. In this study, we examined patterns of land-use/landcover change and their effect on ecosystem C storage in three west Georgia counties (Muscogee, Harris, and Meriwether) that form a rural-urban gradient. Using time series Landsat imagery data including MSS for 1974, TM for 1983 and 1991, and ETM for 2002, we estimate that from 1974 to 2002, urban land use in the area has increased more than 380% (that is, 184 km 2 ). Most newly urbanized land (63%) has been converted from forestland. Conversely, cropland and pasture area has decreased by over 59% (that is, 380 km). Most of the cropland area was converted to forest. As a result, the net change in forest area was small over the past 29 years. Based on Landsat imagery and agricultural census records, we reconstructed an annual gridded data set of land-cover change for the three counties for the period 1850 to 2002. These data sets were then used as input to the Terrestrial Ecosystem Model (TEM) to simulate land-use effects on C fluxes and storage for the study area. Simulated results suggest that C uptake by forest regrowth (approximately 23.0 g C m y) was slightly greater than the amount of C released due to deforestation (approximately 18.4 g C m y ), thus making the three counties a weak C sink. However, the relative importance of different deforestation processes in this area changed significantly through time. Although agricultural deforestation was generally the most important C-release process, the amount of C release attributable to urbanization has increased over time. Since 1990, urbanization has accounted for 29% of total C loss from the study area. We conclude that balancing urban development and forest protection is critically important for C management and policy making in the southeastern United States.
3659047|The increased exploitation of pelagic sharks by longline fisheries raised questions about changes in the food webs that include sharks as apex predators. We used a version of Ecopath/Ecosim models to evaluate changes in trophic interactions due to shark exploitation in the Central North Pacific. Fisheries targeted on blue sharks tend to produce compensatory responses that favor other shark species and billfishes, but they have only modest effects on the majority of food web components. Modest levels of intraguild predation (adult sharks that eat juvenile sharks) produce strong, nonlinear responses in shark populations. In general, analysis of the Central North Pacific model reveals that sharks are not keystone predators, but that increases in longline fisheries can have profound effects on the food webs that support sharks.
40296348|Hypolimnetic oxygen content in lentic ecosystems has traditionally been modeled as a function of variables measured at the epilimnion, or that are supposed to drive epilimnetic processes, like total phosphorus load. However, in man-made reservoirs the river inflow can plunge into deep layers, directly linking the hypolimnion with the surrounding watershed. In these circumstances, organic matter carried by the river can influence the hypolimnetic oxygen content without important intervention of epilimnetic processes. Taking longterm data from two reservoirs in Spain, we applied an empirical regression approach to show that the dissolved organic matter carried by the river is the main driver shaping the hypolimnetic oxygen content. By contrast, typical variables commonly included in the modeling of the oxygen content in the hypolimnion (nutrient concentrations, chlorophyll a, and dissolved organic carbon measured in the water column) did not show any significant correlation. Interpretations from this regression approach were supported by a comparison between the monthly oxygen consumption in the hypolimnion and the monthly dissolved organic carbon load from the river inflow. We also revisited the prediction of the year-to-year variability of the Nurnberg's anoxic factor in four reservoirs from Spain and the USA, explicitly including the allochthonous sources in the equations. These sources were significant predictors of the anoxic factor, especially in those systems subject to relatively high human impact. Thus, effects of allochthonous dissolved organic carbon should always be considered in empirical modeling and management of reservoir hypolimnetic processes related to oxygen content (for example, anoxia, nutrient internal loading, or phosphorus cycle resilience).
3658620| Global climate change is predicted to alter growing season rainfall patterns, potentially reducing total amounts of growing season precipitation and redistributing rainfall into fewer but larger individual events. Such changes may affect numerous soil, plant, and ecosystem properties in grasslands and ultimately impact their productivity and biological diversity. Rainout shelters are useful tools for experimental manipulations of rainfall patterns, and permanent fixed-location shelters were established in 1997 to conduct the Rainfall Manipulation Plot study in a mesic tallgrass prairie ecosystem in northeastern Kansas. Twelve 9  14-m fixed-location rainfall manipulation shelters were constructed to impose factorial combinations of 30% reduced rainfall quantity and 50% greater interrainfall dry periods on 6  6-m plots, to examine how altered rainfall regimes may affect plant species composition, nutrient cycling, and above- and belowground plant growth dynamics. The shelters provided complete control of growing season rainfall patterns, whereas effects on photosynthetic photon flux density, nighttime net radiation, and soil temperature generally were comparable to other similar shelter designs. Soil and plant responses to the first growing season of rainfall manipulations (1998) suggested that the interval between rainfall events may be a primary driver in grassland ecosystem responses to altered rainfall patterns. Aboveground net primary productivity, soil CO
3658878|The problem of scale has three components: (a) direct measurement is usually confined to small areas and brief periods, (b) the most pressing issues occur at the scale of ecosystems and decades, but (c) direct scale-up fails when pattern and process at small scales differ from those at larger scales. Recognition of this dilemma has grown exponentially since around 1980. The problem of scale is particularly acute for seabirds, which inhabit one of the most extensive habitats on the planet-the surface of the ocean. The application of power laws is a promising solution to the problem. Power laws have a long empirical tradition, are readily estimated from data, and now have a theoretical basis. Power law behavior (with nonintegral exponents) appears in systems with episodically warring exponential rates. In marine ornithology, examples of areas where power laws can be applied include patchy spatial distributions, the association of predator with prey, the scaling of food intake to body size, and fractal habitat structure. Scaling theory and power laws are applicable to a wide variety of ecosystem phenomena and dynamics, including fluxes of material and energy.
40793013|A significant fraction of the Earth's land surface is dominated by bryophytes. Research on carbon and nitrogen budgets of tundra, boreal, and peatland ecosystems has demonstrated the important role of mosses in understanding global change. Bryophytes are also habitat to a highly diverse microbiota that plays a key role in the function of these ecosystems. Here we define the term bryosphere to emphasize the combined role of mosses and their associated organisms in the functioning of ecosystems from local to global scales. In this minireview, we emphasize the value of the bryosphere as a spatially bounded, whole ecosystem that integrates aboveground and belowground processes, and we highlight the potential of the bryosphere as a natural model system (NMS) to assist in the study of environmental change on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. We propose a formal definition of the bryosphere, attempt to summarize the current state of knowledge of the bryosphere, and discuss how the bryosphere can be a complex yet tractable system under an NMS framework. Recent use of the bryosphere as an NMS has shown how alterations in food web structure can affect ecosystem function in a manner that, although predicted by theory, has remained largely untested by experiment. An understanding of the biodiversity, ecosystem functioning, and adaptation of the bryosphere can be advanced by manipulative experiments coupled with a blend of techniques in molecular, physiological, community, and ecosystem ecology. Although studies described herein have demonstrated the utility of the bryosphere NMS for addressing ecological theory, the bryosphere is an underutilized system with exceptional promise.
40296267|Understanding and predicting the ways in which large and intense hurricanes affect ecosystem structure, composition and function is important for the successful management of coastal forest ecosystems. In this research, we categorized forest damage resulting from Hurricane Katrina into four classes (none, low, moderate, heavy) for nearly 450 plots in a 153,000 ha landscape in southern Mississippi, USA, using a combination of air photo interpretation and field sampling. We then developed predictive damage models using single tree classification tree analysis (CTA) and stochastic gradient boosting (SGB) and examined the importance of variables addressing storm meteorology, stand conditions, and site characteristics in predicting forest damage. Overall damage classification accuracies for a training dataset (n = 337 plots) were 72 and 81% for the single tree and SGB models, respectively, with Cohen's weighted linear K values of 0.71 and 0.86. For an independent validation dataset (n = 112 plots), classification accuracy dropped to 57% (K = 0.65) and 56% (K = 0.63) for the single tree and SGB models. Proportions of agreement between observed and predicted damage were significantly greater (P < 0.05) than would be expected by chance alone for all damage classes with the training data and all but the moderate class for the validation data. Stand age was clearly the best predictor of damage for both models, with forest type, stand condition, site aspect, and distance to the nearest perennial stream also explaining much of the variation in forest damage. Measures of storm meteorology (duration and steadiness of hurricane-force winds; maximum sustained winds) were of secondary importance. The forest-wide application of our CTA model provided a realistic, spatially detailed map of predicted damage while also maintaining a relatively high degree of accuracy. The study also provides a first step toward the development of models identifying the susceptibility of forest stands to future events that could be used as an aid to incorporating the effects of large infrequent disturbances into forest management activities.
41507770|Intensification of catchment agriculture has increased nutrient loads and accelerated eutrophication in some lakes, often resulting in episodic harmful algal blooms or prolonged periods of anoxia. The influence of catchment agriculture on lake sediment denitrification capacity as a nitrogen (N) removal mechanism in lakes is largely unknown, particularly in contrast to research on denitrification in agricultural streams and rivers. We measured denitrification enzyme activity (DEA) to assess sediment denitrification potential in seven monomictic and three polymictic lakes that range in the proportion of agriculture in the catchment from 3 to 96% to determine if there is a link between agricultural land use in the lake catchment and sediment denitrification potential. We collected sediment cores for DEA measurements over 3 weeks in austral spring 2008 (October-November). Lake Okaro, with 96% catchment agriculture, had approximately 15 times higher DEA than Lake Tikitapu, with 3% catchment agriculture (232.2  55.9 vs. 15.9  4.5 ng NgAF-DM h, respectively). Additionally, sediment denitrification potential increased with the proportion of catchment in agriculture (R = 0.85, P < 0.001). Our data suggest that lakes retain a high capacity to remove excess N via denitrification under increasing N loads from higher proportions of catchment agriculture. However, evidence from the literature suggests that despite a high capacity for denitrification and longer water residence times, lakes with high N loads will still remove a smaller proportion of their N load. Lakes have a denitrification potential that reflects the condition of the lake catchment, but more measurements of in situ denitrification rates across lake catchments is necessary to determine if this capacity translates to high N removal rates.
3658676|Ecosystems are prototypical examples of complex adaptive systems, in which patterns at higher levels emerge from localized interactions and selection processes acting at lower levels. An essential aspect of such systems is nonlinearity, leading to historical dependency and multiple possible outcomes of dynamics. Given this, it is essential to determine the degree to which system features are determined by environmental conditions, and the degree to which they are the result of self-organization. Furthermore, given the multiple levels at which dynamics become apparent and at which selection can act, central issues relate to how evolution shapes ecosystems properties, and whether ecosystems become buffered to changes (more resilient) over their ecological and evolutionary development or proceed to critical states and the edge of chaos.
27823694|This is the first study on the emergent properties for empirical ecosystem models that have been validated by time series information. Ecosystem models of the western and central Aleutian Islands and Southeast Alaska were used to examine indices of ecosystem status generated from network analysis and incorporated into Ecopath with Ecosim. Dynamic simulations of the two ecosystems over the past 40 years were employed to examine if these indices reflect the dissimilar changes that occurred in the ecosystems. The results showed that the total systems throughput (TST) and ascendancy (A) followed the climate change signature (Pacific decadal oscillation, PDO) in both ecosystems, whereas the redundancy (R) followed the inverse trend. The different trajectories for important species such as Steller sea lions (Eumetopias jubatus), Atka mackerel (Pleurogrammus monopterygius), pollock (Theragra chalcograma), herring (Clupea pallasii), Pacific cod (Gadus macrocephalus) and halibut (Hippoglossus stenolepis) were noticeable in the Finn cycling index (FCI), entropy (H) and average mutual information (AMI): not showing large change during the time that the Stellers sea lions, herring, Pacific cod, halibut and arrowtooth flounder (Atheresthes stomias) increased in Southeast Alaska, but showing large declines during the decline of Steller sea lions, sharks, Atka mackerel and arrowtooth flounder in the Aleutians. On the whole, there was a change in the emergent properties of the Aleutians around 1976 that was not seen in Southeast Alaska. Conversely, the emergent properties of both systems showed a change around 1988, which indicated that both systems were unstable after 1988.
27823707|Northern peatlands are important stores of carbon and reservoirs of biodiversity that are vulnerable to global change. However, the carbon dynamics of individual peatland plant species is poorly understood, despite the potential for rising atmospheric CO2 to affect the vegetation's contribution to overall ecosystem carbon function. Here, we examined the effects of 3 years exposure to elevated CO2 (eCO2) on (a) peatland plant community composition and biomass, and (b) plant carbon dynamics and the production of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) using a 13CO2 pulsechase approach. Results showed that under eCO2, Sphagnum spp. cover declined by 39% (P < 0.05) and Juncus effusus L. cover increased by 40% (P < 0.001). There was a concurrent increase in above- and belowground plant biomass of 115% (P < 0.01) and 96% (P < 0.01), respectively. Vascular species assimilated and turned over more 13CO2-derived carbon than Sphagnum spp. (49% greater turnover of assimilated 13C in J. effusus and F. ovina L. leaf tissues compared with Sphagnum, P < 0.01). Elevated CO2 also produced a 66% rise in DOC concentrations (P < 0.001) and an order of magnitude more 'new' exudate 13DOC than control samples (24 h after 13CO2 pulse-labelling 2.5  0.5 and 0.2  0.1% in eCO2 and control leachate, respectively, P < 0.05). We attribute the observed increase in DOC concentrations under eCO2 to the switch from predominantly Sphagnum spp. to vascular species (namely J. effusus), leading to enhanced exudation and decomposition (litter and peat). The potential for reduced peatland carbon accretion, increased DOC exports and positive feedback to climate change are discussed.
23501470|Biodiversity in wetlands is threatened by habitat loss and fragmentation, of which agricultural activities often are a cause. Dispersal of plant seeds via wind and ditches (water) may contribute to connecting remnant wetland plant populations in modern agricultural landscapes, and help to maintain and restore biodiversity. We developed a spatially explicit model to assess the relative importance of dispersal by wind and dispersal by water through drainage ditches for two wetland plant species in agricultural landscapes: a typical wind disperser and a typical water-disperser. Simulation results show that the typical wind disperser had a much higher capability to disperse by wind (90th percentile <30 m) than the typical water-disperser (90th percentile <2 m). Surprisingly, the capability to disperse via water was similar for the two species: 90th percentile dispersal distances following a combination of wind and water dispersal were between approximately 100 and 1000 m. Dispersal by water transported more seeds over long distances for both species. The main determinants for dispersal distance by water were roughness of the ditch (determined by, for example, bank vegetation) and the presence of obstructions (for example, culverts). Density or direction of the ditch network did not seem to affect water dispersal distances substantially. From a biodiversity conservation perspective, it would be most useful if areas with suitable riparian wetland habitat were intersected with a network of shallow ditches with a high roughness promoting seed deposition. These areas should then be connected to other suitable areas by a few regularly cleaned ditches with no obstructions and low seed trapping probability.
25053850|Analysis of food consumption and agricultural production trends in Sweden has focused on domestic food production levels and yields, overlooking human dependence on ecosystem support. We estimate the ecosystem areas appropriated (ArEAs) for agricultural production (crop and animal feed production and grazing in arable land and marine production for fishmeal used in animal feed) to satisfy Swedish food consumption needs from 1962 to 1994. The total agroecosystem areas worldwide supporting Swedish food consumption (that is, domestic production less exports plus imports) have declined by almost one-third since the 1960s as a result of consumption changes and agricultural intensification. By 1994, Swedish consumption of domestic food crops was halved and consumers relied on agricultural areas outside Sweden to satisfy more than a third (35%) of food consumption needs. Surprisingly, 74% of manufactured animal feed ArEAs were from imported inputs. Moreover, marine ArEAs equal to 12% of the total appropriated areas were needed to support fishmeal usage in animal feed. The results show that domestic agricultural areas do not support Swedish food consumption and that the bulk of manufactured feed used in animal products' production in Sweden is supplied by ecosystems of other nations. These are hidden subsidies of nature, not explicit in Swedish national agricultural policy. Sweden must recognize its high level of dependence on the capacity of ecosystems of other nations to supply its food needs. Ignorance of ecosystem support may increase vulnerability.
23253690|Calcium is an important nutrient that can be limiting in many forest ecosystems, where acid deposition and other natural and anthropogenic activities have resulted in significant soil calcium depletion. Calcium's critical role in physiological and structural processes and its limited mobility and storage in many organisms, make it a potential driver of ecosystem structure and function, but little is known about how changes in soil calcium affect community composition, especially in terrestrial vertebrates. The aim of this study was to establish relationships between the abundances of forest songbird species and soil calcium and to elucidate linking mechanisms by establishing simultaneous relationships with trophic and habitat variables. We measured soil calcium and pH, calcium-rich invertebrate abundances, vegetation, and songbird abundances at 14 interior forest sites across central Pennsylvania representing a range of soil calcium levels. Bird community composition varied with soil calcium and pH, with 10 bird species having the highest abundances in forests with high calcium soils, and five species having the highest abundances with low calcium soils. Bird species associated with low-calcium soils were associated with high densities of mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia), an acid-loving shrub, whereas bird species associated with high-calcium soils were associated with high densities of saplings and high basal area of acid-sensitive tree species. Homogenization of soil conditions through land-use patterns and soil calcium depletion pose the risk of reducing the beta diversity of bird species across forest areas because community composition varied with soil calcium.
25470357|Phosphorus (P) to chlorophyll ratios and zoo-plankton-phytoplankton (Z:P) biomass ratios were assessed in 400 temperate lakes over a gradient of phosphorus (P) and with different fish communities. Most of the lakes in this survey were oligotrophic, with a median total P of 7.3 g P L. Thus, the survey provided information on food web effects during the early phase of eutrophication. There was no tendency toward a reduced yield of autotrophs per unit of P over the gradient covered in this survey. The zooplankton yield per unit of P or chlorophyll a decreased slightly with increased nutrient concentrations, and Z:P biomass ratios decreased with fish community classes, reflecting increased fish predation pressure. However, the variability in biomass ratios within a given range of P and fish class was some 100 times higher than the difference over the gradients. This finding suggests that lake-specific properties, community composition, and food quality are by far the most important determinants of biomass ratios and probably also trophic efficiency in lakes; it further suggests that these factors are superimposed on the general effect of eutrophication, at least up to 30 g P L.
43677519|Quantifying the response of soil respiration to past environmental conditions is critical for predicting how future climate and vegetation change will impact ecosystem carbon balance. Increased shrub dominance in semiarid grasslands has potentially large effects on soil carbon cycling. The goal of this study was to characterize the effect of antecedent moisture and temperature conditions on soil respiration in a grassland now dominated by shrubs. Continuous measurements of soil respiration, soil temperature, and soil moisture were made over the entire summer of 2005 within distinct vegetation microsites in this shrubland communityunder grasses, shrubs, and in open spaces. We analyzed these data within a Bayesian framework that allowed us to evaluate the time-scale over which antecedent conditions influence soil respiration. The addition of antecedent conditions explained an additional 16% of the variation in soil respiration. High soil moisture during the preceding month increased respiration rates in both the grass and shrub microsites. However, the time period over which antecedent soil moisture influenced the temperature sensitivity of soil respiration was shorter in the shrub compared to the grass microsites (1 vs. 2 weeks, respectively). The depth of moisture was important; for example, for respiration under shrubs, near-surface moisture was more influential on the day of the respiration measurement but subsurface moisture was more influential on the antecedent time scale. Although more mechanistic studies are required, this study is the first to reveal that shrub encroachment changes the time scales over which soil moisture and temperature affect soil respiration.
40296313|The boreal forest is the largest terrestrial biome in North America and holds a large portion of the world's reactive soil carbon. Therefore, understanding soil carbon accumulation on a landscape or regional scale across the boreal forest is useful for predicting future soil carbon storage. Here, we examined the relationship between floristic composition and ecosystem parameters, such as soil carbon pools, the carbon-to-nitrogen (C/N) ratio of live black spruce needles, and normalized basal area increment (NBAI) of trees in black spruce communities, the most widespread forest type in the boreal forest of Alaska. Variability in ecosystem properties among black spruce stands was as large as that which had previously been documented among all forest types in the central interior of Alaska; we found an eightfold range in NBAI and fivefold range in mineral soil carbon and nitrogen pools. Acidic black spruce communities had significantly more carbon in the organic soil horizon than did nonacidic black spruce communities, but did not differ in any other measured ecosystem parameter. We explained 48% of the variation in total soil carbon with a combination of plant community indices and abiotic and biotic factors. Plant community composition was at least as effective as any single environmental factor or stand characteristic in predicting soil C pools in Alaskan black spruce ecosystems. We conclude that among the community properties analyzed, the presence of key groups of species, overall species composition, and diversity of certain functional types, especially Sphagnum moss species, are important predictors of soil carbon sequestration in the black spruce forest type.
40603505|Desert grasslands, which are very sensitive to external drivers like climate change, are areas affected by rapid land degradation processes. In many regions of the world the common form of land degradation involves the rapid encroachment of woody plants into desert grasslands. This process, thought to be irreversible and sustained by biophysical feedbacks of global desertification, results in the heterogeneous distribution of vegetation and soil resources. Most of these shrub-grass transition systems at the desert margins are prone to disturbances such as fires, which affect the interactions between ecological, hydrological, and land surface processes. Here we investigate the effect of prescribed fires on the landscape heterogeneity associated with shrub encroachment. Replicated field manipulation experiments were conducted at a shrub-grass transition zone in the northern Chihuahuan desert (New Mexico, USA) using a combination of erosion monitoring techniques, microtopography measurements, infiltration experiments, and isotopie studies. The results indicate that soil erosion is more intense in burned shrub patches compared to burned grass patches and bare interspaces. This enhancement of erosion processes, mainly aeolian, is attributed to the soil-water repellency induced by the burning shrubs, which alters the physical and chemical properties of the soil surface. Further, we show that by enhancing soil erodibility fires allow erosion processes to redistribute resources accumulated by the shrub clumps, thereby leading to a more homogeneous distribution of soil resources. Thus fires counteract or diminish the heterogeneityforming dynamics of land degradation associated with shrub encroachment by enhancing local-scale soil erodibility.
3658800|Hierarchies and adaptive cycles comprise the basis of ecosystems and social-ecological systems across scales. Together they form a panarchy. The panarchy describes how a healthy system can invent and experiment, benefiting from inventions that create opportunity while being kept safe from those that destabilize because of their nature or excessive exuberance. Each level is allowed to operate at its own pace, protected from above by slower, larger levels but invigorated from below by faster, smaller cycles of innovation. The whole panarchy is therefore both creative and conserving. The interactions between cycles in a panarchy combine learning with continuity. An analysis of this process helps to clarify the meaning of "sustainable development." Sustainability is the capacity to create, test, and maintain adaptive capability. Development is the process of creating, testing, and maintaining opportunity. The phrase that combines the two, "sustainable development," thus refers to the goal of fostering adaptive capabilities and creating opportunities. It is therefore not an oxymoron but a term that describes a logical partnership.
3659007|Previous descriptions of soils in the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, have focused on the dominance of abiotic controls rather than on nutrient cycling. Although free-living N
40296347|Nutrient loading to lakes depends on both the availability of nutrients in a watershed and their potential for movement to a lake. Many studies have demonstrated that variation in watershed land use can translate to differences in lake water quality by affecting nutrient availability. There have been few attempts, however, to understand how loading to surface waters is affected by land use when there are differences in watershed transport capacity. We compared the relationship between land use/cover and lake nutrients in lakes draining watersheds that exhibited high and low transport capacity using a 5 year (2001-2005) dataset describing the chemistry of 101 lakes and reservoirs in a region of intensive agriculture. We measured watershed transport capacity by compositing the hydrologic, geologic, and topographic variables correlated with interannual variability in lake total nitrogen (TN) or phosphorus (TP) because the hydrologic permeability of watersheds amplifies downstream responses to rainfall events. Factors describing watershed transport capacity differed for TN and TP, consistent with differences in nutrient mobility and biogeochemistry. Partial least squares regression revealed that watershed transport capacity influenced the nature of the association between land use/cover and lake chemistry. In watersheds with low transport capacity, in-lake processes and near-shore land use/cover tended to be more influential, whereas, in watersheds with high transport capacity, land use/cover across the entire watershed was important for explaining lake chemistry. Thus, although land use is a key driver of nutrient loading to lakes, the extent to which it influences water quality can vary with watershed transport capacity.
25470331|Forest productivity depends on nutrient supply, and sustained increases in forest productivity under elevated carbon dioxide (CO) may ultimately depend on the response of microbial communities to changes in the quantity and chemistry of plant-derived substrates. We investigated microbial responses to elevated CO in a warm-temperate forest under free-air CO enrichment for 5 years (1997-2001). The experiment was conducted on three 30 m diameter plots under ambient CO and three plots under elevated CO (200 ppm above ambient). To understand how microbial processes changed under elevated CO, we assayed the activity of nine extracellular enzymes responsible for the decomposition of labile and recalcitrant carbon (C) substrates and the release of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) from soil organic matter. Enzyme activities were measured three times per year in a surface organic horizon and in the top 15 cm of mineral soil. Initially, we found significant increases in the decomposition of labile C substrates in the mineral soil horizon under elevated CO; this overall pattern was present but much weaker in the O horizon. Beginning in the 4th year of this study, enzyme activities in the O horizon declined under elevated CO, whereas they continued to be stimulated in the mineral soil horizon. By year 5, the degradation of recalcitrant C substrates in mineral soils was significantly higher under elevated CO. Although there was little direct effect of elevated CO on the activity of N- and P-releasing enzymes, the activity of nutrient-releasing enzymes relative to those responsible for C metabolism suggest that nutrient limitation is increasingly regulating microbial activity in the O horizon. Our results show that the metabolism of microbial communities is significantly altered by the response of primary producers to elevated CO. We hypothesize that ecosystem responses to elevated CO are shifting from primary production to decomposition as a result of increasing nutrient limitation.
25470423|This study examines the effect of elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide [CO] (+340 ppm, C-depleted) and/or elevated air temperature (2.8-3.5C) on the rate and C of soil respiration. The study was conducted in a boreal Norway spruce forest using temperature-controlled whole-tree chambers and C as a marker for root respiration. The C of needle carbohydrates was followed after the onset of the CO treatment in August 2001 and during a 2.5-week period in the summer of 2002. Averaged over the growing seasons of 2002 and 2003, we observed a 48% and 62% increase, respectively, in soil respiration in response to elevated [CO], but no response to elevated air temperature. The percentage increase in response to elevated [CO] varied seasonally (between 10% and 190% relative to the control), but the absolute increase varied less (39  11 mg C m h; mean  SD). Data on C of soil respiration indicate that this increase in soil respiration rate resulted from increased root/rhizosphere respiration of recently fixed carbon. Our results support the hypothesis that root/rhizosphere respiration is sensitive to variation in substrate availability.
40793010|Arid ecosystems receive precipitation pulses of different sizes that may differentially affect nitrogen (N) losses and N turnover during the growing season. We designed a rainfall manipulation experiment in the Patagonian steppe, southern Argentina, where we simulated different precipitation patterns by adding the same amount of water in evenly spaced three-small rainfall events or in one-single large rainfall event, three times during a growing season. We measured the effect of the size of rainfall pulses on N mineralization and N losses by denitrification, ammonia volatilization, and nitrate and ammonia leaching. Irrigation pulses stimulated N mineralization (P< 0.05), with small and frequent pulses showing higher responses than large pulses (P < 0.10). Irrigation effects were transient and did not result in changes in seasonal net N mineralization suggesting a longterm substrate limitation. Water pulses stimulated gaseous N losses by denitrification, with large pulses showing higher responses than small pulses (P < 0.05), but did not stimulate ammonia volatilization. Nitrate leaching also was higher after large than after small precipitation events (P < 0.05). Small events produced higher N transformations and lower N losses by denitrification and nitrate leaching than large events, which would produce higher N availability for plant growth. Climate change is expected to increase the frequency of extreme precipitation events and the proportion of large to small rainfall events. Our results suggest that these changes would result in reduced N availability and a competitive advantage for deep-rooted species that prefer nitrate over ammonia. Similarly, the ammonium: nitrate ratio might decrease because large events foster nitrate losses but not ammonium losses.
27823748|We investigated how the distribution of precipitation over a growing season influences the coupling of carbon and water cycle components in a semiarid floodplain woodland dominated by the deeprooted velvet mesquite (Prosopis velutina). Gross ecosystem production (GEP) and ecosystem respiration (Reco) were frequently uncoupled because of their different sensitivities to growing season rainfall. Soon after the first monsoon rains, Reco was high and was not proportional to slight increases in GEP. During the wettest month of the growing season (July), the system experienced a net carbon loss equivalent to 46% of the carbon accumulated over the 6-month study period (114 g C m2; MayOctober). It appears that a large CO2 efflux and a rapid water loss following precipitation early in the growing season and a later CO2 gain is a defining characteristic of seasonally dry ecosystems. The relative contribution of plant transpiration (T) to total evapotranspiration (ET) (T/ET) was 0.90 for the entire growing season, with T/ET reaching a value of 1 during dry conditions and dropping to as low as 0.65 when the soil surface was wet. The evaporation fraction (E) was equivalent to 31% of the precipitation received during the study period (253 mm) whereas trees and understory vegetation transpired 38 and 31%, respectively, of this water source. The water-use efficiency of the vegetation (GEP/T) was higher later in the growing season when the C4 grassy understory was fully developed. The influence of rain on net ecosystem production (NEP) can be interpreted as the proportion of precipitation that is transpired by the plant community; the water-use efficiency of the vegetation and the precipitation fraction that is lost by evaporation.
25470335|Although succession may follow multiple pathways in a given environment, the causes of such variation are often elusive. This paper describes how changes in fire interval mediate successional trajectory in conifer-dominated boreal forests of northwestern Canada. Tree densities were measured 5 and 19 years after fire in permanent plots and related to pre-fire vegetation, site and fire characteristics. In stands that were greater than 75 years of age when they burned, recruitment density of conifers was significantly correlated with pre-fire species basal area, supporting the expectation of stand self-replacement as the most common successional pathway in these forests. In contrast, stands that were under 25 years of age at the time of burning had significantly reduced conifer recruitment, but showed no change in recruitment of trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides). As a result, young-burned stands had a much higher probability of regenerating to deciduous dominance than mature-burned stands, despite the dominance of both groups by spruce (Picea mariana and Picea glauca) and pine (Pinus contorta) before the fire. Once initiated, deciduous-dominated stands may be maintained across subsequent fire cycles through mechanisms such as low on-site availability of conifer seed, competition with the aspen canopy, and rapid asexual regeneration of aspen after fire. We suggest that climate-related increases in fire frequency could trigger more frequent shifts from conifer to deciduous-dominated successional trajectories in the future, with consequent effects on multiple ecosystem processes.
40296323|To identify the controls on dissolved organic carbon (DOC) production, we incubated soils from 18 sites, a mixture of 52 forest floor and peats and 41 upper mineral soil samples, at three temperatures (3, 10, and 22C) for over a year and measured DOC concentration in the leachate and carbon dioxide (CO) production from the samples. Concentrations of DOC in the leachate were in the range encountered in field soils (< 2 to > 50 mg I). There was a decline in DOC production during the incubation, with initial rates averaging 0.03-0.06 mg DOC g soil C day, falling to averages of 0.01 mg g soil C day; the rate of decline was not strongly related to temperature. Cumulative DOC production rates over the 395 days ranged from less than 0.01 to 0.12 mg g soil C day (0.5-47.6 mg g soil C), with an average of 0.021 mg g soil C day (8.2 mg g soil C). DOC production rate was weakly related to temperature, equivalent to Q values of 0.9 to 1.2 for mineral samples and 1.2 to 1.9 for organic samples. Rates of DOC production in the organic samples were correlated with cellulose (positively) and lignin (negatively) proportion in the organic matter, whereas in the mineral samples C and nitrogen (N) provided positive correlations. The partitioning of C released into CO-C and DOC showed a quotient (CO-C: DOC) that varied widely among the samples, from 1 to 146. The regression coefficient of CO-C: DOC production (log transformed) ranged from 0.3 to 0.7, all significantly less than 1. At high rates of DOC production, a smaller proportion of CO is produced. The CO-C: DOC quotient was dependent on incubation temperature: in the organic soil samples, the CO-C: DOC quotient rose from an average of 6 at 3 to 16 at 22C and in the mineral samples the rise was from 7 to 27. The CO-C: DOC quotient was related to soil pH in the organic samples and C and N forms in the mineral samples.
27823677|Climate warming is expected to have a large impact on plant species composition and productivity in northern latitude ecosystems. Warming can affect vegetation communities directly through temperature effects on plant growth and indirectly through alteration of soil nutrient availability. In addition, warming can cause permafrost to thaw and thermokarst (ground subsidence) to develop, which can alter the structure of the ecosystem by altering hydrological patterns within a site. These multiple direct and indirect effects of permafrost thawing are difficult to simulate in experimental approaches that often manipulate only one or two factors. Here, we used a natural gradient approach with three sites to represent stages in the process of permafrost thawing and thermokarst. We found that vascular plant biomass shifted from graminoid-dominated tundra in the least disturbed site to shrub-dominated tundra at the oldest, most subsided site, whereas the intermediate site was co-dominated by both plant functional groups. Vascular plant productivity patterns followed the changes in biomass, whereas nonvascular moss productivity was especially important in the oldest, most subsided site. The coefficient of variation for soil moisture was higher in the oldest, most subsided site suggesting that in addition to more wet microsites, there were other microsites that were drier. Across all sites, graminoids preferred the cold, dry microsites whereas the moss and shrubs were associated with the warm, moist microsites. Total nitrogen contained in green plant biomass differed across sites, suggesting that there were increases in soil nitrogen availability where permafrost had thawed.
3658976|Soil acidity and calcium (Ca) availability in the surface soil differ substantially beneath sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) trees in a mixed forest in northwestern Connecticut. We determined the effect of pumping of Ca from deep soil (rooting zone below 20-cm mineral soil) to explain the higher available Ca content in the surface soil beneath sugar maple. We measured the atmospheric input of Ca with bulk deposition collectors and estimated Ca weathering and Ca mineralization in the surface soil (rooting zone above 20-cm mineral soil) from strontium isotope measurements and observed changes in exchangeable Ca in soils during field incubation. Calcium leaching at 20 cm was calculated by combining modeled hydrology with measured Ca soil solution concentrations at 20-cm depth. We measured root length distribution with depth beneath both tree species. Calcium leaching from the surface soil was much higher beneath sugar maple than hemlock and was positively related with the amount of Ca available in the surface soil. Calcium leaching from the surface soil beneath sugar maple was higher than the combined Ca input from atmospheric deposition and soil weathering. Without Ca uptake in the deep soil, surface soils are being depleted in Ca, especially beneath sugar maple. More organically bound Ca was mineralized beneath sugar maple than beneath hemlock. A relatively small part of this Ca release was leached below the surface soil, suggesting that, beneath both tree species, most of the Ca cycling is occurring in the surface soil. Sugar maple had more fine roots in the deep soil than hemlock and a greater potential to absorb Ca in the deep soil. With a simple model, we showed that a relatively small amount of Ca uptake in the deep soil beneath sugar maple is able to sustain high amounts of available Ca in the surface soil.
3659013|The isotope decay method of estimating below-ground net primary production (BNPP) has the potential to overcome the assumptions and biases associated with traditional methods. Isotope loss through in situ decomposition after pulse-labeling is considered the inverse of production, and turnover times are estimated by regression to time of zero remaining isotope. Method development and estimates of production were previously published using 4 years of data, which showed a clear linear loss rate over time. A slow, distinctly different phase in isotope loss developed 5-10 years postlabeling. We assess reasons for the two-phase loss functions and the implications for estimates of BNPP and compare the isotope decay method with standard coring methods over a 13-year period. Reasons for the two-phase dynamics of carbon 14 (
3658946|The quantity and quality of freshwater resources are now being seriously threatened, partly as a result of extensive worldwide changes in land use, and scientists are often called upon by policy makers and managers to predict the ecological consequences that these alterations will have for stream ecosystems. The effects of the urbanization of stream ecosystems in the United States over the next 20 years are of particular concern. To address this issue, we present a multidisciplinary research agenda designed to improve our forecasting of the effects of land-use change on stream ecosystems. Currently, there are gaps in both our knowledge and the data that make it difficult to link the disparate models used by economists, hydrologists, geomorphologists, and ecologists. We identify a number of points that practitioners in each discipline were not comfortable compromising on-for example, by assuming an average condition for a given variable. We provide five instructive examples of the limitations to our ability to forecast the fate of stream and riverine ecosystems one drawn from each modeling step: (a) Accurate economic methods to forecast land-use changes over long periods (such as 20 years) are not available, especially not at spatially explicit scales; (b) geographic data are not always available at the appropriate resolution and are not always organized in categories that are hydrologically, ecologically, or economically meaningful; (c) the relationship between low flows and land use is sometimes hard to establish in anthropogenically affected catchments; (d) bed mobility, suspended sediment load, and channel form-all of which are important for ecological communities in streams-are difficult to predict; and (e) species distributions in rivers are not well documented, and the data that do exist are not always publicly available or have not been sampled at accurate scales, making it difficult to model ecological responses to specified levels of environmental change. Meeting these challenges will require both interdisciplinary cooperation and a reviewed commitment to intradisciplinary research in the fields of economics, geography, quantitative spatial analysis, hydrology, geomorphology, and ecology.
41505968|Recent studies have shown that tropical and subtropical forests expanded during the late Holocene, but rates and mechanisms of expansion are still unknown. Here, we investigate how a forestgrassland mosaic changed over the past 10,000 years at the southernmost limit of the Brazilian Atlantic forest. We used soil organic matter carbon isotopes (C and C) to quantify and date changes in vegetation, examining soil properties and leaf traits of tree species (nutrient content, (C, N, and specific leaf areaSLA) to describe potential mechanisms of expansion. Our results show that after several millennia of stability, forests have been expanding over grasslands through continuous, but very slow, border dynamics and patch formation (< 100 m since ~4,000 YBP). This process of expansion coincided with past changes in climate, but biotic feedback mechanisms also appear to be important for the long-term persistence and expansion of forests. Soil fertility and microbial biomass match current rather than past vegetation distribution, increasing progressively across the gradient: grasslands < isolated trees < forest patches < forests. Foliar N values of trees that are able to colonize the grassland are consistently lower across this vegetation gradient, suggesting an increasingly greater reliance on symbiotic nutrient uptake from grasslands to forests. No significant relationships were found between soil and leaf nutrients, but SLA explained variation in leaf N, P, and (positive relationships) and in leaf C (negative relationship). These findings suggest that a tradeoff between tree growth and water use efficiency is an important regulator of forest-grassland dynamics in the study region.
43677538|Urban forests provide ecosystem services for millions of people. Numerous introductions have elevated tree species richness in cities, which may enhance functional diversity. However, few studies have examined changes in tree community composition or functional diversity with urbanization, even though functional diversity, and not species number per se, is directly linked with ecosystem function and associated services. We combined tree abundance data from both urban and extra-urban forest inventory plots for seven metropolitan areas in eastern North America to analyze changes in species composition, Shannon's diversity, and functional diversity with urbanization. As expected, urban tree diversity was reduced at local scales, and the effect varied with land use. Rarefaction analysis indicated that at large scales, urban tree species pools were equal with respect to species or functional diversity compared to extra-urban forests, but in urban areas at small scales this diversity is not realized because of low tree density. Ordination revealed that with urbanization, introduced species increased in importance, and regional variation in species composition became more homogenous. Increasing tree density and/or tree cover through changes in management practices and urban design could facilitate local scale urban tree diversity using existing species pools, which are functionally diverse. Monitoring of forests at large spatial scales that include urban areas, and the use of methods that account for abundance and functional trait variation can provide insights into the effects of urbanization on tree diversity at multiple scales.
3658752|Disturbance events vary in intensity, size, and frequency, but few opportunities exist to study those that are extreme on more than one of these gradients. This article characterizes successional processes that occur following infrequent disturbance events that are exceptional in their great intensity or large size. The spatial variability in disturbance intensity within large, infrequent disturbances (LIDs) often leads to a heterogeneous pattern of surviving organisms. These surviving organisms dictate much of the initial successional pattern on large disturbances where the opportunities for seeds to disperse into the middle of the disturbance are limited. The traditional distinction between primary and secondary succession is insufficient to capture the tremendous variability in succession following LIDs. Disturbance size influences succession where long-distance colonization by propagules is important. Observations from LIDs suggest the following interrelated hypotheses about trends in succession with increasing distance from seed sources when disturbance intensity is high: (a) initial densities of organisms will be lower; (b) nucleation processes, in which recovering patches serve as foci for additional colonization and expand spatially, will be more important; (c) competitive sorting will be less important relative to chance arrival in determination of community composition, and (d) community composition will be initially less predictable; and (e) the rate of recovery of community composition will be slower. Prediction of succession following LIDs without considering contingencies such as the abundance, types, and spatial distribution of residuals, and distance to seed sources is likely to be unsuccessful for large portions of the landscape. Abundance and spatial arrangement of survivors and arrival patterns of propagules may be the pivotal factors determining how succession differs between intense disturbances of large and small extent.
40603504|Fog is thought to influence ecological function in coastal forests worldwide, yet few data are available that illuminate the mechanisms underlying this influence. In a California redwood forest we measured water and nitrogen (N) fluxes from horizontally moving fog and vertically delivered rain as well as redwood tree function. The spatial heterogeneity of water and N fluxes, water availability, tree water use, and canopy N processing varied greatly across seasons. Water and N fluxes to soil (annual average of 98% and 89%, respectively) across the whole forest occurred primarily in the rain season and was relatively even across the whole forest. In contrast, below-canopy flux of fog water and N declined exponentially from the windward edge to the forest interior. Following large fog events, soil moisture was greater at the windward edge than anywhere else in the forest. Physiological activity in redwoods reflected these differences in inputs across seasons: tree physiological responses did not vary spatially in the rain season, but in the fog season, water use was greater, yet water stress was less, in trees at the windward edge of the forest versus the interior. In both seasons, vertical passage through the forest changed the amount of water and form and concentration of N, revealing the role of the tree canopy in processing atmospheric inputs. Although total fog water inputs were comparatively small, they may have important ecosystem functions, including relief of canopy water stress and, where there is fog drip, functional coupling of above-and belowground processes.
40296273|Nitrogen fixation was measured in constructed old-field ecosystems that were exposed for 3 years to different combinations of elevated atmospheric [CO] and temperature (300 ppm and 3C above ambient respectively), and ambient or reduced soil moisture (corresponding to 25 or 2 mm rainfall per week). The old-fields included seven planted herbaceous annual and perennial species, including two legumes (Trifolium pratense and Lespedeza cuneata). Potential asymbiotic N -fixation by soils, measured in laboratory incubations, was significantly less under the "dry" treatment but was estimated to contribute little overall to annual ecosystem N budgets. Foliar N concentrations declined significantly under elevated [CO]. Effects of the three environmental factors on the mean (SE) fraction of legume N derived from atmospheric N
3658720|The nitrogen (N) cycle of forest ecosystems is understood relatively well, and few scientists expect that major revisions will be necessary; most current work on N cycling focuses on improving the precision estimates of pools and fluxes, or measuring the magnitudes of well-known pools in response to management or disturbances. However, in the past few decades more than a dozen articles in refereed journals have claimed very high rates of N input, far beyond the rates expected for known sources of N. In this review, we summarize the literature on N accretion rates in forests that lack substantial contributions from symbiotic N-fixing plants. We critique each study for the strength of the experimental design behind the estimate of N accretion and consider whether unexpectedly large inputs of N really occur in forests. Only 6 of 24 estimates of N accretion had strong experimental designs, and only 2 of these 6 yielded estimates of $>5\ {\rm kg}\ {\rm N}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm y}^{-1}$. The high accretion estimates with a strong experimental design come from repeated sampling at the Walker Branch watersheds in Tennessee, where N accretion rates ranged from 50 to
27823747|Lake models that predict phosphorus (P) concentrations from P-loading have provided important knowledge enabling successful restoration of many eutrophic lakes during the last decades. However, the first-generation (static) models were rather imprecise and some nutrient abatement programs have therefore produced disappointingly modest results. This study compares 12 first-generation models with three newer ones. These newer models are dynamic (time-dependent), and general in the sense that they work without any further calibration for lakes from a wide limnological domain. However, static models are more accessible to non-specialists. Predictions of P concentrations were compared with empirical long-term data from a multi-lake survey, as well as to data from transient conditions in six lakes. Dynamic models were found to predict P concentrations with much higher certainty than static models. One general dynamic model, LakeMab, works for both deep and shallow lakes and can, in contrast to static models, predict P fluxes and particulate and dissolved P, both in surface waters and deep waters. PCLake, another general dynamic model, has advantages that resemble those of LakeMab, except that it needs three or four more input variables and is only valid for shallow lakes.
3658962|There is much demand for quantitative models to aid in comparison of policy options and design of adaptive management policies for riparian ecosystems. Such models must represent a wide variety of physical and biological factors that can vary on space-time scales from meters-seconds to basin-decades. It is not possible in practice to develop a complete model for all variation. Incomplete but still useful models can be developed by using state variable identification methods that focus scientific attention on causal pathways of most direct policy concern, and by using various analytical methods to provide cross-scale analytical predictions about effects of microscale variation. The main value of such models has not been to provide detailed quantitative prescriptions, but to help identify robust, qualitative arguments about efficacy of various policy choices. However, they have not been successful at representing some important dynamic effects in riparian systems, where small physical changes (such as overtopping dikes) and infrequent extreme physical events can cause habitat changes at large spatial scales and ecological impacts that last for decadal or even longer time scales.
23328064|In spite of the extensive area of bogs in the southern cone of South America, there have been very few studies on structure and dynamics of conifer bog forests in this region. Previously, it has been assumed that in the absence of intensive disturbance, the dominant conifer Pilgerodendron uviferum (D. Don) Florin would be replaced through other angiosperm species. Here we hypothesized (a) that this conifer can persist without intensive disturbances and develop into old-growth forests with continuing regeneration and (b) that high-severity disturbances through fire threaten its local persistence. To test this hypotheses, we analyzed diameter and age structure, foliar and soil nutrient levels and the light environment of old-growth and fire-disturbed P. uviferum stands on Chilo Island (43S) in North Patagonia. Longevity (>880 years), extremely slow growth (< 1 mm diameter per year) and tolerance to shade and stress are the main mechanisms of P. uviferum persistence in nutrient-poor and waterlogged conditions. Hence, old-growth P. uviferum forests are not a transitional phase in forest succession and may be maintained in the landscape for many centuries or millennia. However, in fire-disturbed stands, live trees of the species were rare and regeneration negligible, showing that high-severity fires can eliminate the species from parts of the landscape, where neither propagules nor seed trees survive. This underpins the importance of biological legacies such as seed trees for the recovery of disturbed sites, and points to the need for active restoration approaches to restore fire-degraded P. uviferum forests.
40603661|Classical models of phytoplankton-zooplankton interaction show that with nutrient enrichment such systems may abruptly shift from limit cycles to stable phytoplankton domination due to zooplankton prdation by planktivorous fish. Such models assume that planktivorous fish eat only zooplankton, but there are various species of filter-feeding fish that may also feed on phytoplankton. Here, we extend these classical models to systematically explore the effects of omnivory by planktivorous fish. Our analysis indicates that if fish forage on phytoplankton in addition to zooplankton, the alternative attractors predicted by the classical models disappear for all realistic parameter settings, even if omnivorous fish have a strong preference for zooplankton. Our model also shows that the level of fish biomass above which zooplankton collapse should be higher when fish are omnivorous than when fish are zooplanktivorous. We also used the model to explore the potential effects of the now increasingly common practice of stocking lakes with filter-feeding fish to control cyanobacteria. Because omnivorous filterfeeding fish forage on phytoplankton as well as on the main grazers of phytoplankton, the net effect of such fish on the phytoplankton biomass is not obvious. Our model suggests that there may be a unimodal relationship between the biomass of omnivorous filter-feeding fish and the biomass of phytoplankton. This implies that to manage for reductions in phytoplankton biomass, heavy stocking or strong reduction of such fish is best.
3658713|We developed a stylized mathematical model to explore the effects of physical, ecological, and economic factors on the resilience of a managed firedriven rangeland system. Depending on grazing pressure, the model exhibits one of three distinct configurations: a fire-dominated, grazing-dominated, or shrub-dominated rangeland system. Transaction costs and costs due to shrub invasion, via their effect on grazing decisions, strongly influence which stable configuration is occupied. This, in turn, determines the resilience of the rangeland system. These results are used to establish conditions under which management for profit is consistent with the maintenance of resilience.
40603642|Plant and microbial use of nitrogen (N) can be simultaneously mutualistic and competitive, particularly in ecosystems dominated by mycorrhizal fungi. Our goal was to quantify plant uptake of organic and inorganic N across a broad latitudinal gradient of forest ecosystems that varied with respect to overstory taxon, edaphic characteristics, and dominant mycorrhizal association. Using C and N, we observed in situ the cycling dynamics of NH and glycine through various soil pools and fine roots over 14 days. Recovery of N as soil N varied with respect to N form, forest type, and sampling period; however, there were similarities in the cycling dynamics of glycine and NH among all forest types. Microbial immobilization of N was immediately apparent for both treatments and represented the largest sink (~25%) for N among extractable soil N pools uring the first 24 h. In contrast, fine roots were a relatively small sink (< 10%) for both N forms, but fine root C enrichment indicated that plants in all forest types absorbed glycine intact, suggesting that plants and microbes effectively target the same labile soil N pools. Relative uptake of amino acid-N versus NH varied significantly among sites and approximately half of this variation was explained by mycorrhizal association. Estimates of plant uptake of amino acid-N relative to NH were 3  higher in ectomycorrhizal-dominated stands (1.6  0.2) than arbuscular mycorrhizae-dominated stands (0.5  0.1). We conclude that free amino acids are an important component of the N economy in all stands studied; however, in these natural environments plant uptake of organic N relative to inorganic N is explained as much by mycorrhizal association as by the availability of N forms per se.
3658963|We conducted a study to evaluate the relative importance of topography, grazing, the location of individual plants (microsite), and plant species in controlling the spatial variability of soil organic matter in shortgrass steppe ecosystems. We found that the largest spatial variation occurs in concert with topography and with microsite-scale heter-ogeneity, with relatively little spatial variability due to grazing or to plant species. Total soil C and N, coarse and fine particulate organic matter C and N, and potentially mineralizable C were significantly affected by topography, with higher levels in toeslope positions than in midslopes or summits. Soils beneath individual plants (Bouteloua gracilis and Opuntia polyacantha) were elevated by 2-3 cm relative to surrounding soils. All pools of soil organic matter were significantly higher in the raised hummocks directly beneath plants than in the soil surface of interspaces or this layer under plants. High levels of mineral material in the hummocks suggest that erosion is an important process in their formation, perhaps in addition to biotic accumulation of litter beneath individual plants. Over 50 y of heavy grazing by cattle did not have a significant effect on most of the soil organic matter pools we studied. This result was consistent with our hypothesis that this system, with its strong dominance of belowground organic matter, is minimally influenced by aboveground herbivory. In addition, soils beneath two of the important plant species of the shortgrass steppe, B. gracilis and O. polyacantha, differed little from one another. The processes that create spatial variability in shortgrass steppe ecosystems do not affect all soil organic matter pools equally. Topographic variability, developing over pedogenic time scales (centuries to thousands of years), has the largest effect on the most stable pools of soil organic matter. The influence of microsite is most evident in the pools of organic matter that turn over at time scales that approximate the life span of individual plants (years to decades and centuries).
40296357|Soil microbes are among the most abundant and diverse organisms on Earth. Although microbial decomposers, particularly fungi, are important mediators of global carbon and nutrient cycling, the functional roles of specific taxa within natural environments remain unclear. We used a nucleotide-analog technique in soils from the Harvard Forest to characterize the fungal taxa that responded to the addition of five different carbon substratesglycine, sucrose, cellulose, lignin, and tannin-protein. We show that fungal community structure and richness shift in response to different carbon sources, and we demonstrate that particular fungal taxa target different organic compounds within soil microcosms. Specifically, we identified eleven taxa that exhibited changes in relative abundances across substrate treatments. These results imply that niche partitioning through specialized resource use may be an important mechanism by which soil microbial diversity is maintained in ecosystems. Consequently, high microbial diversity may be necessary to sustain ecosystem processes and stability under global change.
3658896|Although they drain remarkably similar forest types, streams of the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF) vary widely in their NO
43677515|Predicted reductions of cool-season rainfall may expand and accelerate drought-induced plant mortality currently unfolding across the Southwest US. To assess how repeated plant mortality affects ecosystem functional attributes, we quantified net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE), ecosystem respiration (Reco), and gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) responses to precipitation (P) at a semidesert grassland over spring (Feb 1-Apr 30) and summer (June 15-Oct 1) plant-active periods across eight years, including two with distinct patterns of extensive species-specific mortality. In addition, we quantified daily soil respiration (Rsoil) in high- (56-88%) and low-mortality (8-27%) plots the summer following the most recent mortality event. Plant mortality coincided with severely dry cool-season conditions (Dec 1-Apr 30). We found a positive relationship between springtime P and GEP, and that springtime conditions influenced GEP response to summer rainfall. High springtime Reco/GEP ratios followed plant mortality, suggesting increased available carbon after mortality was rapidly decomposed. Rsoil in low-mortality plots exceeded high-mortality plots over drier summer periods, likely from more root respiration. However, total cumulative Rsoil did not differ between plots, as variation in surviving plant conditions resulted in high and low C-yielding plots within both plot types. Vegetation status in high C-yielding Rsoil plots was similar to that across the grassland, suggesting Rsoil from such areas underlay higher Reco. This, coupled to springtime drought constraints to GEP, resulted in positive NEE under summer P accumulations that previously supported C-sink activity. These findings indicate that predicted lower cool-season precipitation may strongly and negatively affect summer season productivity in these semiarid grasslands.
3658925|The stocking of trout in wilderness lakes of the western United States began in the 1800s. This practice was followed for nearly a century with the singular goal of creating and enhancing sport fishing and without any consideration of its ecological ramifications. Following the advent of a new environmental awareness in the 1960s, and thanks to new research that revealed negative impacts on the biota attributable to introduced fishes, traditional fish-stocking practices came under question first at federal land management agencies and later at their counterparts within the states. The highly utilitarian ethic that drove resource management until well into the 1960s was gradually replaced by one that acknowledges the value of all life forms and their ecological complexity, a view currently supported even by many anglers. The necessity for wilderness fish stocking is now the subject of widespread debate, especially in view of changing social values and priorities. Options for future generations cannot be preserved if introductions continue to erode the biodiversity of mountain lake ecosystems.
3658937|We evaluated the effects of the exotic tree Fraxinus uhdei on decomposition dynamics and nutrient turnover in a montane Hawaiian rainforest. We used reciprocal transplants of litterbags between forests dominated by Fraxinus and by the native Metrosideros polymorpha to distinguish between endogenous (litter quality) and exogenous (for example, microclimate, nutrient availability, microbial and invertebrate communities) effects of Fraxinus on mass loss and nutrient dynamics of decomposing litter. Fraxinus produced greater quantities of litter that was thinner, had higher N and P concentrations, and lower concentrations of lignin and soluble polyphenols. Microbes decomposing Fraxinus litter produced fewer enzymes involved in N and P acquisition and more of those involved in cellulose degradation. Differences in litter quality and microbial activity resulted in a strong effect of litter type on rates of mass loss, whereby Fraxinus litter decomposed and released nutrients at nearly twice the rate of Metrosideros litter (k = 0.82 versus 0.48), regardless of site of decomposition. Although site of decomposition had no effect on rates of litter mass loss, Fraxinus litter decomposed under a Fraxinus canopy mineralized approximately 20% less P after one year than Fraxinus litter decomposed under a Metrosideros canopy. Furthermore, Fraxinus litter decomposed under a Fraxinus canopy immobilized greater amounts of N and P in the early stages of decay, suggesting that the large amounts of N and P in Fraxinus litterfall have raised nutrient availability to decomposers in the forest floor. Greater immobilization of N and P under a Fraxinus canopy may act as a governor on rates of nutrient cycling, limiting the degree to which Fraxinus invasion accelerates N and P cycling in this system.
41507774|Dynamic relationships among climate, disturbance, and vegetation affect the spatial configuration and composition of ecological communities. Paleoecological records indicate the importance of such relationships in Minnesota's Big Woods (BW) region, where isolated hardwood forest populations expanded to regional dominance after AD 1250. We used LANDIS-II to model the BW forest expansion, and conducted simulation experiments that isolated the important ecological factors in this regional change. In our simulations, BW forest expanded at approximately 15 m per year to achieve regional dominance within 600 years, which is comparable to empirical records. The distribution of the BW depended on the locations of scattered pre-existing tree populations that were sheltered from previous severe fire regimes by firebreaks. During the simulated spread of the tree populations, however, the presence or absence of firebreaks did not further influence vegetation pattern. When we assumed a fire rotation of 10-13 years in grasslands/woodlands and more than 400 years in BW, the feedback between fireresistant BW fuels and fire severity caused fire severity to decline in a time frame consistent with sedimentary data. In our simulations, seed dispersal from core initial populations caused forest expansion, changed fuel loads, and thus reduced fire severitynot the other way around as has been commonly proposed. Forest expansion was slowed by fire, but species' life history attributes, namely seed dispersal distances and maturity ages, asynchronous successional dynamics across many stands, and landscape history were at least as important in the temporal and spatial patterns of the regional response to climate change.
3658771|The interaction of fast and slow processes is an integral part of the sudden large shifts that sometimes occur in ecosystems. To study the effects of slow/fast variables on ecosystems, we used a range of examples from natural and exploited aquatic and terrestrial systems. So-called catastrophic bifurcations in the dynamics of the fast components are at the heart of such dramatic shifts. We discuss some of the most important bifurcations and show how they can be analyzed. Subsequently, we show how the interaction with slowly changing variables can be understood from graphs constructed in a simple way using the singular perturbation approach.
25470365|We examined the role of red deer (Cervus elaphus L.) in translocating phosphorus (P) from their preferred grazing sites (short-grass vegetation on subalpine grasslands) to their wider home range in a subalpine grassland ecosystem in the Central European Alps. Phosphorus was used because it is the limiting nutrient in these grasslands. When we compared P removal of aboveground biomass due to grazing with P input due to the deposit of feces on a grid of 268 cells (20 m  20 m) covering the entire grassland, we detected distinct spatial patterns: the proportion of heavily grazed short-grass vegetation increased with increasing soil-P pool, suggesting that red deer preferably grazed on grid cells with a higher soil-P pool. Biomass consumption related to increased proportion of short-grass vegetation, and therefore P removal, increased with increasing soil-P pool. However, within the two vegetation types (short-grass and tall-grass), consumption was independent from soil-P pool. In addition, P input rates from defecation increased with increasing soil-P pool, resulting in a constant mean net P loss of 0.083 kg ha y (0.03%-0.07% of soil-P pool) independent of both soil-P pool and vegetation type. Thus, there was no P translocation between grid cells with different soil-P pools or between short-grass and tall-grass vegetation. Based on these results, it is likely that the net rate of P loss is too small to explain the observed changes in vegetation composition from tall-herb/meadow communities to short-grass and from tall-grass to short-grass on the grassland since 1917. Instead, we suggest that the grazing patterns of red deer directly induced succession from tall-herb/meadow communities to short-grass vegetation. Yet, it is also possible that long-term net soil-P losses indirectly drive plant succession from short-grass to tall-grass vegetation, because nutrient depletion could reduce grazing pressure in short-grass vegetation and enable the characteristic tall-grass species Carex sempervirens Vill. to establish.
40603424|The vast majority of lakes examined worldwide emit CO to the overlying atmosphere, through a process by which catchment-derived subsidies of terrigenous C, often in the form of dissolved organic carbon (DOC), augment within-lake CO production above the level consumed via photosynthesis.follow this pattern. These lakes are strong summertime CO absorbers, despite DOCconcentrations at or above levels commonly shown to produce CO emission. Paradoxically, CO levels were lowest where DOC was greatest, in lakes which appear to be annual net CO absorbers, and have poor hydrologie connection to the terrestrial landscape. CO in these lakes is depleted by high macrophyte productivity, and although catchmentderived C subsidies are low, within-lake DOC generation appears to occur as a byproduct of macrophyte photosynthesis and evapoconcentration.Additionally, after accounting for DOC and macrophytes, lakes that were least connected to the larger terrestrial landscape remained weaker CO absorbers, suggesting that CO balance may also be affected by DOC quality, foodweb structure, or inputs of pCO -rich riverwater to connected lakes. In contrast, a small subset of Delta lakes that were strongly affected by permafrost melting were CO emitters, suggesting future permafrost degradation could engender a change in the overall CO balance of these lakes from near-CO neutral over the ice-free season, to clear CO emission. Our work suggests that the current paradigm of lakewater CO regulation may need to specifically incorporate shallow, productive lakes, and those that are poorly connected to their surrounding landscape.
23501434|Significant concern has emerged over the past decades regarding decreases in available base cations (that is, calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium) in forest soils and surface waters. Base cations (BCs) are important for buffering against changes in soil and water acidity, and their concentrations can be indicative of environmental management problems such as those linked to acid deposition and land use. Climate variability is also a potentially large factor influencing the dynamics of BCs in soils and surface waters, but our understanding of these interactions at broad scales remains elusive. We used a hierarchical Bayesian model to evaluate the long-term (1990-2010) patterns and drivers of BC concentrations for 60 stream and river monitoring stations across Sweden. Results indicated that the long-term trends in concentration, and the associated environmental drivers, differed among individual BCs and geographical regions. For example, we found that concentrations of Ca 2+ , Mg 2+ , K + , and Na + have decreased in southern Sweden since 1990 and that this is strongly related to concurrent declines in sulfate (SO 4 2- ) over the same period of record. In contrast, concentrations of Ca 2+ , Mg 2+ , K + , and Na + in northern Sweden did not exhibit significant directional trends, despite declines in SO 4 2- , nitrate (NO 3 - ), and chloride (Cl - ) over the same period. Instead, BC dynamics in the north are characterized by inter-annual variability that is most closely linked to climate variables. Results suggest that the interaction between climatic variability and historical acid deposition determines the regional pattern and long-term trends of BC concentrations across streams and rivers of Sweden. Understanding the strength of the interaction between climate features and historic deposition will greatly improve our ability to predict long-term trends of Ca 2+ , Mg 2+ , K + , and Na + and their inter-annual dynamics in the future.
27823764|The influence of forest stand composition on soil was investigated by comparing the forest floor (FH) and upper mineral soil (020 cm) nutritional properties of jack pine and aspen stands on two soil types of contrasting fertility, a coarse-textured and a fine-textured deposit, in a replicated design. The studied tree species are pioneers that are found after major disturbances in the southern boreal forest of western Quebec and that differ in their nutrient requirements but not in their growth rate. Soil organic matter as well as total and available N, P, K, Ca, Mg contents were determined and the relationships with nutrient accumulation in tree biomass were studied. On both soil types a greater total and available nutrient accumulation in the forest floor layer was observed in aspen than in jack pine whereas such differences between stand types could not be detected in the mineral soil. Differences in FH nutrient content between stand types were larger on coarse deposits than on fine-textured soils. These results support the hypothesis that tree species with greater nutrient requirements cause an enrichment of the surface soil at least in the short term. The modulation of tree species effect by soil type was contrary to the pattern observed in other studies since a greater expression of this effect was observed on poorer soils. Differences in soil nutrient content were related to levels of organic matter accumulation.
40296287|Losses of soil base cations due to acid rain have been implicated in declines of red spruce and sugar maple in the northeastern USA. We studied fine root and aboveground biomass and production in five northern hardwood and three conifer stands differing in soil Ca status at Sleepers River, VT; Hubbard Brook, NH; and Cone Pond, NH. Neither aboveground biomass and production nor belowground biomass were related to soil Ca or Ca: Al ratios across this gradient. Hardwood stands had 37% higher aboveground biomass (P = 0.03) and 44% higher leaf litter production (P < 0.01) than the conifer stands, on average. Fine root biomass (< 2 mm in diameter) in the upper 35 cm of the soil, including the forest floor, was very similar in hardwoods and conifers (5.92 and 5.93 Mg ha). The turnover coefficient (TC) of fine roots smaller than 1 mm ranged from 0.62 to 1.86 y; and increased significantly with soil exchangeable Ca (P = 0.03). As a result, calculated fine root production was clearly higher in sites with higher soil Ca (P = 0.02). Fine root production (biomass times turnover) ranged from 1.2 to 3.7 Mg ha y for hardwood stands and from 0.9 to 2.3 Mg ha y for conifer stands. The relationship we observed between soil Ca availability and root production suggests that cation depletion might lead to reduced carbon allocation to roots in these ecosystems.
25470315|This paper describes a new method to derive nitrogen critical loads for vegetation, and its application to The Netherlands. An 'inverted' form of the soil chemical model SMART2 was used to estimate atmospheric nitrogen deposition at the critical conditions for 139 terrestrial vegetation types (associations) occurring in northwestern Europe, using an iterative search procedure. The critical conditions are the lower end of the pH range, and the upper end of the nitrogen availability range for each vegetation type. The critical load is assumed to be the nitrogen deposition that results in the critical conditions. The critical load values were subjected to a sensitivity and uncertainty analysis. Sensitivity analysis showed that the estimated critical N load mainly depends on the vegetation type and to a lesser extent on the soil type and the critical N availability. Of these variables N availability, which was estimated from Ellenberg's indicator scale, contributes most to the uncertainty. The critical load averaged over all vegetation types and soil types is estimated to be 23  7 kg N hay. This is a rather reliable value because its uncertainty is small and it is in agreement with empirical estimates of critical loads. Critical loads per vegetation type are less reliable because they are not correlated to empirical values, although the ranges of simulated and empirical values usually overlap. At the site level, uncertainty becomes very large and it is not possible to determine critical loads with any practical significance. The uncertainties can only be reduced if more data become available on the abiotic response per species under field conditions, at least to nitrogen availability and soil pH.
23501300|Climate, tree species traits, and soil fertility are key controls on forest productivity. However, in most forest ecosystems, natural and human disturbances, such as wind throw, fire, and harvest, can also exert important and lasting direct and indirect influence over productivity. We used an ecosystem model, PnET-CN, to examine how disturbance type, intensity, and frequency influence net primary production (NPP) across a range of forest types from Minnesota and Wisconsin, USA. We assessed the importance of past disturbances on NPP, net N mineralization, foliar N, and leaf area index at 107 forest stands of differing types (aspen, jack pine, northern hardwood, black spruce) and disturbance history (fire, harvest) by comparing model simulations with observations. The model reasonably predicted differences among forest types in productivity, foliar N, leaf area index, and net N mineralization. Model simulations that included past disturbances minimally improved predictions compared to simulations without disturbance, suggesting the legacy of past disturbances played a minor role in influencing current forest productivity rates. Modeled NPP was more sensitive to the intensity of soil removal during a disturbance than the fraction of stand mortality or wood removal. Increasing crown fire frequency resulted in lower NPP, particularly for conifer forest types with longer leaf life spans and longer recovery times. These findings suggest that, over long time periods, moderate frequency disturbances are a relatively less important control on productivity than climate, soil, and species traits.
25470405|Although it is widely accepted that elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO), nitrogen (N) deposition, and climate change will alter ecosystem productivity and function in the coming decades, the combined effects of these environmental changes may be nonadditive, and their interactions may be altered by disturbances, such as fire. We examined the influence of a summer wildfire on the interactive effects of elevated CO, N deposition, and increased precipitation in a full-factorial experiment conducted in a California annual grassland. In unburned plots, primary production was suppressed under elevated CO. Burning alone did not significantly affect production, but it increased total production in combination with nitrate additions and removed the suppressive effect of elevated CO. Increased production in response to nitrate in burned plots occurred as a result of the enhanced aboveground production of annual grasses and forbs, whereas the removal of the suppressive effect of elevated CO occurred as a result of increased aboveground forb production in burned, CO-treated plots and decreased root production in burned plots under ambient CO. The tissue nitrogen-phosphorus ratio, which was assessed for annual grass shoots, decreased with burning and increased with nitrate addition. Burning removed surface litter from plots, resulting in an increase in maximum daily soil temperatures and a decrease in soil moisture both early and late in the growing season. Measures of vegetation greenness, based on canopy spectral reflectance, showed that plants in burned plots grew rapidly early in the season but senesced early. Overall, these results indicate that fire can alter the effects of elevated CO and N addition on productivity in the short term, possibly by promoting increased phosphorus availability.
3658986| Eddy-covariance and biometeorological methods show significant net annual carbon uptake in an old-growth Douglas-fir forest in southwestern Washington, USA. These results contrast with previous assumptions that old-growth forest ecosystems are in carbon equilibrium. The basis for differences between conventional biomass-based carbon sequestration estimates and the biomete-orologic estimates are discussed. Annual net ecosystem exchange was comparable to younger ecosystems at the same latitude, as quantified in the AmeriFlux program. Net ecosystem carbon uptake was significantly correlated with photosynthetically active radiation and air temperature, as well as soil moisture and precipitation. Optimum ecosystem photosynthesis occurred at relatively cool temperatures (5-10C). Understory and soil carbon exchange always represented a source of carbon to the atmosphere, with a strong seasonal cycle in source strength. Understory and soil carbon exchange showed a Q
27823654|In this paper we analyze a long-term dataset on the recovery from eutrophication of Lake Veluwe (The Netherlands). Clear hysteresis was observed in a number of ecosystem variables: the route to recovery differed significantly from the route that led to loss of clear water. The macrophyte dominated state disappeared in the late 1960s at TP above 0.20 mg l1, whereas its return occurred at less than 0.10 mg TP l. Several regime shifts resulting in the occurrence of three alternative stable states were observed over a period of 30 years. The turbid state showed resistance to change, despite a strong and prompt reduction in Chl-a following reduction of external P-loading. The most important component that determined hysteresis in the return to clear water was not internal P-loading, but a high level of nonalgal light attenuation (through sediment resuspension) maintained by the interaction between wind and benthivorous fish. Although Chara was able to re-colonize the most shallow parts of the lake, recovery stalled and for a number of years clear (above charophyte beds) and turbid (deeper parts of the lake) water co-existed, as a separate alternative state on route to full recovery. Lake-wide clear water was re-established after bream density had been reduced substantially. This allowed a return of zebra mussels to the lake, whose high filtration capacity helped in maintaining clear water. In this study, we were able to identify the main drivers of hysteresis and regime shifts, although formal demonstration of cause and effect was not possible on the basis of field data alone. We argue that resilience of the present clear water state of Lake Veluwe very much depends on sizable populations of a few keystone species, especially Chara (stoneworts) and Dreissena (zebra mussels), and that careful management of these species is equally important as control of nutrients. Lake management should strive to maintain and strengthen resilience of the ecosystem, and this should offer protection against a renewed collapse of the clear state.
43677505|The boreal forest plays a key role in the global carbon (C) cycle, and black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) BSP) forests are the dominant coniferous forest type in the Canadian boreal forest. National-scale forest C of moss-derived organic matter that we hypothesize to be significant in the C budget of black spruce ecosystems. One such model, the Carbon Budget Model of the Canadian Forest Sector (CBM-CFS3), is designed to meet Canada's forest-related greenhouse gas reporting requirements. In this study our goal was to determine if black spruce forest soil C stocks are significantly underestimated by the CBM-CFS3 and if so, to determine if estimates could be improved by adding moss-derived C. We conclude that in black spruce sites, organic layer C is significantly underestimated by CBM-CFS3 compared to sites with all other leading tree species analyzed. We compiled and used published moss net primary productivity rates for upland forest systems, with decomposition rates, in mass-balance calculations to estimate mean moss-derived C in black spruce forests for feather mosses at 64 Mg C ha , and for sphagnum mosses at 103 C Mg ha. These C pools are similar to the CBM-CFS3 mean underestimation of black spruce soil organic layers (63 Mg ha). We conclude that the contribution of mosses is sufficiently large that a moss C pool should be added to national-scale models including the CBM-CFS3, to reduce uncertainties in boreal forest C budget estimation. Feather and sphagnum mosses should be parameterized separately.
3659031|Using empirical data from 466 temperate to arctic lakes covering a total phosphorus (TP) gradient of
3658731|Historical data have increasingly become appreciated for insight into the past conditions of ecosystems. Uses of such data include assessing the extent of ecosystem change; deriving ecological baselines for management, restoration, and modeling; and assessing the importance of past conditions on the composition and function of current systems. One historical data set of this type is the Public Land Survey (PLS) of the United States General Land Office, which contains data on multiple tree species, sizes, and distances recorded at each survey point, located at half-mile (0.8-km) intervals on a 1-mi (1.6 km) grid. This survey method was begun in the 1790s on US federal lands extending westward from Ohio. Thus, the data have the potential of providing a view of much of the US landscape from the mid- 1800s, and they have been used extensively for this purpose. However, historical data sources, such as those describing the species composition of forests, can often be limited in the detail recorded and the reliability of the data, since the information was often not originally recorded for ecological purposes. Forest trees are sometimes recorded ambiguously, using generic or obscure common names. For the PLS data of northern Wisconsin, USA, we developed a method to classify ambiguously identified tree species using logistic regression analysis, using data on trees that were clearly identified to species and a set of independent predictor variables to build the models. The models were first created on partial data sets for each species and then tested for fit against the remaining data. Validations were conducted using repeated, random subsets of the data. Model prediction accuracy ranged from 81% to 96% in differentiating congeneric species among oak, pine, ash, maple, birch, and elm. Major predictor variables were tree size, associated species, landscape classes indicative of soil type, and spatial location within the study region. Results help to clarify ambiguities formerly present in maps of historic ecosystems for the region and can be applied to PLS datasets elsewhere, as well as other sources of ambiguous historical data. Mapping the newly classified data with ecological land units provides additional information on the distribution, abundance, and associations of tree species, as well as their relationships to environmental gradients before the industrial period, and clarifies the identities of species formerly maped only to genus. We offer some caveats on the appropriate use of data derived in this way, as well as describing their potential.
3658900|Human interaction with fire and vegetation occurs at many levels of human population density and cultural development, from subsistence cultures to highly technological societies. The dynamics of these interactions with respect to wildland fire are often difficult to understand and identify at short temporal scales. Dendrochronological fire histories from the Missouri Ozarks, coupled with human population data, offer a quantitative means of examining historic (1680-1990) changes in the anthropogenic fire regime. A temporal analysis of fire scar dates over the last 3 centuries indicates that the percent of sites burned and fire intervals of anthropogenic fires are conditioned by the following four limiting factors: (a) anthropogenic ignition, (b) surface fuel production, (c) fuel fragmentation, and (d) cultural behavior. During an ignition-dependent stage (fewer than
3659038|Observations of declining base saturation in soils and declining calcium (Ca) in streamwater have contributed to concerns that prolonged exposure to acid rain threatens forest health and productivity. We suggest that these changes could be caused, in part, by aging of the forests. To test this possibility, we characterized Ca cycling in previously harvested, variously aged northern hardwood stands over 15-18 years. The Ca content and concentrations in the forest floor and the density of snails, which require Ca for growth, increased in young stands (less than 30 years old) and decreased in older stands (more than 30 years old) over the measurement period. Similarly, the concentrations of Ca in litterfall decreased with stand age, and hydrologic export of Ca from a young stand was higher than that from an old stand. Ecosystem budgets suggest that the supply of Ca from the mineral soil to other parts of the ecosystem is large
25470392|Recent evidence suggests that atmospheric nitrate (NO) deposition can alter soil carbon (C) storage by directly affecting the activity of lignin-degrading soil fungi. In a laboratory experiment, we studied the direct influence of increasing soil NO concentration on microbial C cycling in three different ecosystems: black oak-white oak (BOWO), sugar maple-red oak (SMRO), and sugar maple-bass-wood (SMBW). These ecosystems span a broad range of litter biochemistry and recalcitrance; the BOWO ecosystem contains the highest litter lignin content, SMRO had intermediate lignin content, and SMBW leaf litter has the lowest lignin content. We hypothesized that increasing soil solution NO would reduce lignolytic activity in the BOWO ecosystem, due to a high abundance of white-rot fungi and lignin-rich leaf litter. Due to the low lignin content of litter in the SMBW, we further reasoned that the NO repression of lignolytic activity would be less dramatic due to a lower relative abundance of white-rot basidiomycetes; the response in the SMRO ecosystem should be intermediate. We increased soil solution NO concentrations in a 73-day laboratory incubation and measured microbial respiration and soil solution dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and phenolics concentrations. At the end of the incubation, we measured the activity of -glucosidase, N-acetyl-glucosaminidase, phenol oxidase, and peroxidase, which are extracellular enzymes involved with cellulose and lignin degradation. We quantified the fungal biomass, and we also used fungal ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) to gain insight into fungal community composition. In the BOWO ecosystem, increasing NO significantly decreased oxidative enzyme activities (-30% to -54%) and increased DOC (+32% upper limit) and phenolic (+77% upper limit) concentrations. In the SMRO ecosystem, we observed a significant decrease in phenol oxidase activity (-73% lower limit) and an increase in soluble phenolic concentrations (+57% upper limit) in response to increasing NO in soil solution, but there was no significant change in DOC concentration. In contrast to these patterns, increasing soil solution NO in the SMBW soil resulted in significantly greater phenol oxidase activity (+700% upper limit) and a trend toward lower DOC production (-52% lower limit). Nitrate concentration had no effect on microbial respiration or -glucosidase or N-acetyl-glucosaminidase activities. Fungal abundance and basidiomycete diversity tended to be highest in the BOWO soil and lowest in the SMBW, but neither displayed a consistent response to NO additions. Taken together, our results demonstrate that oxidative enzyme production by microbial communities responds directly to NO deposition, controlling extracellular enzyme activity and DOC flux. The regulation of oxidative enzymes by different microbial communities in response to NO deposition highlights the fact that the composition and function of soil microbial communities directly control ecosystem-level responses to environmental change.
3659051|Human influence is now so pervasive that every ecosystem on Earth is being managed, whether intentionally or inadvertently. It is therefore imperative for scientists and managers to work together so that appropriate management regimes can be put in place wherever possible. However, it is not always clear what is appropriate, and the difficulties that often arise when scientists and managers work together can be even further compounded by the inclusion of lay stakeholders in the decision-making process. The expansion of interdisciplinary undergraduate and graduate programs would help both scientists and managers to deal more effectively with sociological issues and to understand how economic and demographic changes impact on natural resources. In addition, continuing education programs in these areas should be made available to established professionals to help them deal with new challenges. The concept of ecosystem services should be used to communicate the importance of various ecosystem components and processes to a broader audience. Consensus on a management regime can often be achieved through adaptive management. The process by which interdisciplinary collaboration can lead to new insights and research initiatives is exemplified by a resource management study on the island of Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia. As a paradigm of natural resource management, microcosms like this small island community offer a unique opportunity for training and education.
40296368|Wind is known to alter the structure and functioning of forest ecosystems. Because the intensity and frequency of severe wind events are likely to increase, it is important to understand the speciesand substrate-specific effects of these disturbances. We assessed the structure and production among 63 species of trees in an Australian tropical rainforest before and after Cyclone Larry (March 2006). We assessed forest occurring on two different substrates: nutrient-poor schist and relatively nutrientrich basalt. Leaf area reduction and stem breakage were markedly variable among species, but were more evident on basalt soils than schist soils, and were positively correlated with leaf N and P. In the 18-month period following the cyclone, litterfall, stem biomass increment, and ANPP were 44, 20, and 27% of pre-cyclone measurements and did not differ between soils. More severe modification of leaves, branches, and stems on basalt soils, relative to schist soils, suggests that trees/species growing on nutrient-limited soils are less susceptible to high winds. Disturbance regime and resource availability are likely to interact, creating potential plant strategies that increase fitness either by enhanced investments in carbon or enhanced investments in nitrogen and phosphorus.
41413974|Soil crusts influence many soil parameters that affect how water moves into and through the soil, and therefore, critically influence water availability, erosion processes, nutrient fluxes, and vegetation distribution patterns in semiarid ecosystems. Soil crusts are quite sensitive to disturbance, and their alteration can lead to modification of the local hydrological regime, thus affecting general functioning of the ecosystem. The aim of this study was to analyze the influence of different types of soil crusts, physical, and biological in different developmental stages, as well as the impact of their disturbance, on infiltration. This was assessed by means of rainfall simulations conducted in two semiarid ecosystems in southeast Spain characterized by different lithologies, topographies, and soil crust distributions. Two consecutive rainfall simulation experiments (50 mm h rainfall intensity), the first on dry soil and the second on wet soil, were carried out in microplots (0.25 m) containing the most representative soil crust types at each site, each crust type subjected to three disturbance treatments: (a) undisturbed, (b) trampling, and (c) removal. Infiltration in the crusts was higher on coarse-than on fine-textured soils and almost two times greater on dry than on wet soil. Biological soil crusts (BSC) showed higher infiltration rates than physical soil crusts (PSC). Within BSC, infiltration increased as cyanobacterial biomass increased and was the highest in moss crusts. However, latesuccessional crustose and squamulose lichen crusts showed very low infiltration rates. Trampling reduced infiltration rates, especially when soil was wet, whereas crust removal enhanced infiltration. But this increase in infiltration after removing the crust decreased over time as the soil sealed again due to raindrop impact, making runoff rates in the scraped microplots approach those registered in the respective undisturbed crust types. Our results demonstrate that water redistribution in semiarid ecosystems strongly depends on the type of crusts that occupy the interplant spaces and the characteristics of the soils which they overly, as well as the antecedent moisture conditions of the soil. Disturbance of these crust patches results in increased runoff and erosion, which has important consequences on general ecosystem functioning.
40603659|Here we report the long-term (13-year) dynamics of surface pCO and its response to episodic eutrophication and acidification events in two contrasting tropical coastal lakes, one clear-water and the other humic. A short-term nutrient addition experiment was also conducted in mesocosms in the humic lake where in situ eutrophication was moderate. Our objective was to elucidate the response of pCO to interannual changes in key limnological conditions, such as nutrient concentrations and pH. The humic waters showed a median pCO almost ninefold higher across the 13-year study than the clear waters, supporting pCO values about tenfold above atmospheric equilibrium. Eutrophication of the clear-water lake resulted in a decrease in pCO to median values below atmospheric equilibrium, producing a strong sink for atmospheric CO . In contrast, pCO increased by over tenfold in both lakes during the acidification phase, resulting in very large CO emissions to the atmosphere. Experimental nutrient additions in the humic lake showed a strong persistence of high pCO. The extreme variability in pCO observed here might be a characteristic of tropical lakes and may have important consequences for regional carbon budgets.
25053835|We investigated the decomposability of soil organic matter (SOM) along a chronosequence of rainforest sites in Hawaii that form a natural fertility gradient and at two long-term fertilization experiments. To estimate turnover times and pool sizes of organic matter, we used two independent methods: (1) long-term incubations and (2) a three-box soil model constrained by radiocarbon measurements. Turnover times of slow-pool SOM (the intermediate pool between active and passive pools) calculated from incubations ranged from 6 to 20 y in the O horizon and were roughly half as fast in the A horizon. The radiocarbon-based model yielded a similar pattern but slower turnover times. The calculation of the
41505924|Woody vegetation has expanded in coverage over the past century in many places globally, exemplified by pinyon-juniper changes in the Southwestern United States. Extreme drought is one of the few non-management drivers besides fire that might reverse such cover changes, but this has not been well documented. Here, we assess 68 years of tree cover dynamics across an elevation gradient of a pinyon-juniper woodland using aerial photographs (1936 and 1959) and QuickBird imagery (2004). Canopy cover increased 32% from 1936 to the onset of a major drought (2002). The largest relative increase in canopy cover occurred from 1936 to 1959 at the higher elevations, but these gains were eliminated by fires occurring from 1959 to 2002, during which time lower elevations with low canopy cover exhibited the greatest relative increases. The 2002-2004 drought reduced canopy cover by 55%, which eliminated gains in cover that occurred since 1936. Relative tree cover loss was highest at low elevations with low tree cover, but absolute tree cover loss was greater in areas of high tree cover, which increased with elevation. The loss of more than half of the canopy cover during a 2-year drought period was much greater than losses due to fire or possible increases due to historic land use (for example, grazing). These results suggest that regional-scale climatic influences may be more important than land use legacies in controlling tree cover of these and perhaps other semiarid woodlands over longer time scalesnotable given that similar episodes of tree mortality are projected in coming decades with climate change.
23328063|Our understanding of carbon (C) dynamics within savannas is very limited, especially how source/sink dynamics are influenced by the resident biota. Previous measurements of epigeal termite mounds (termitaria), ubiquitous in many savannas, have shown that they are considerable point sources of soil carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), whereas CO 2 measurements collected outside the mounds were generally assumed to be independent of termite activity. However, no measurements were conducted along gradients away from the mounds to confirm this. We quantified daytime soil CO 2 emissions (soil respiration) along gradients from the center to 20 m from the mound edge in Serengeti National Park, and measured soil temperature/moisture, macro-invertebrate abundance, and vegetation height as variables potentially influencing these emissions. Further, we quantified how far into the savanna termitaria impact CO 2 emissions. As in other studies, we found the highest soil CO 2 fluxes at the termitaria-center and considerably lower fluxes in the surrounding savanna. Macro-invertebrate abundance was associated with the differences in emissions measured, whereas the other variables were not. The analysis of spatial autocorrelation revealed significantly lower fluxes between the termitaria edge and up to 9 m from the edge compared to the values measured at the termitaria-center and between 10 and 20 m from the termitaria edge. When extrapolating the emissions across the landscape our results suggest that the lower CO 2 emissions found between the edge and 9 m fully compensate for the high fluxes measured at the termitaria center. Consequently, our findings provide evidence that termitaria might influence the savanna C source-sink dynamics differently than previously thought.
40928238|We studied the effect of tree species on nitrification in five young plantations and an old native beech coppice forest at the Breuil experimental site in central France. The potential net nitrification (PNN) of soil was high in beech, Corsican pine, and Douglas fir plantations (high nitrifying stands denoted H) and low in spruce and Nordmann fir plantations as well as in native forest stands (low nitrifying stands denoted L). We hypothesized that tree species would stimulate or inhibit nitrification in transplanted soil cores within a few years after the cores were transplanted between stands. We first initiated a transplant experiment where soil cores were exchanged between all stands. The PNN remained high in soil cores from H transferred to H and low in soil cores from L transferred to L. The PNN increased considerably after 16 months in soil cores transferred from L to H, whereas the transfer of soil cores from H to L decreased the PNN only slightly after 28 months. In a second transplant experiment, forest floor material was exchanged between the Douglas fir (H) and the native forest (L) stand. Six months later, the forest floor from the native forest had increased the PNN of the Douglas fir soil considerably, whereas the forest floor from Douglas fir did not affect the PNN of the soil in the native forest stand. It was concluded that beech, Corsican pine, and Douglas fir rapidly stimulate soil nitrification by either activation of suppressed nitrifier communities and/or colonization by new nitrifier communities. Conversely, the slow and irregular reduction of nitrification in spruce, Nordmann fir, and native forest was probably due to the low and heterogeneously distributed flux of inhibiting substances per volume of soil. Our experiments suggest that the inhibition of nitrification is not tightly connected to forest floor leachates, but that the forest floor both reflects and maintains the major ongoing processes. In the long term, humus build up and the production of inhibiting substances may completely block the nitrification activity.
40296263|We comment on a recent Ecosystem paper by Odion and Hanson (Ecosystems 9: 1177-1189, 2006), in which the authors claim that high severity fire is rare in the Sierra Nevada under current conditions. Odion and Hanson's results are predicated on BAER soil burn severity maps, which are based primarily on fire effects to soil, not vegetation. Odion and Hanson, and we fear others as well, are misinformed as to the nature of the BAER severity mapping process, and proper applications of BAER soil burn severity maps. By comparing the BAER soil burn severity maps to a true vegetation burn severity measure (RdNBR) calibrated by field data, we show that the area in the high soil burn severity class for the three fires analyzed by Odion and Hanson is substantially less than the area of standreplacing fire, and that BAER mapsespecially hand-derived maps such as those from two of the three firesalso greatly underestimate the heterogeneity in vegetation burn severity on burned landscapes. We also show that, contrary to Odion and Hanson's claims, Fire Return Interval Departure (FRID) is strongly correlated with fire severity in conifer stands within the perimeter of the McNally Fire.
23253694|Current knowledge of Africa's carbon (C) pools is limited despite its importance in the global C budget. To increase the understanding of C stocks in African woodlands, we asked how C stocks in soil and vegetation vary across a miombo woodland landscape and to what degree and at what scales are these stocks linked? We sampled along a 5-km transect using a cyclic sampling scheme to allow geostatistical analyses. Soil C stocks in the top 5 cm (12.1  0.6 Mg C ha -1 ( SE)) and 30 cm depths (40.1  2.5 Mg C ha -1 ) varied significantly at scales of a few meters (autocorrelation distance 14 m in 05-cm and 26 m in 030-cm interval), and aboveground (AG) woody C stocks (20.7  1.8 Mg C ha -1 ) varied significantly at kilometer scales (1,426 m). Soil textural distributions were linked to topography (r 2 = 0.54) as were large-tree AG C stocks (r 2 = 0.70). AG C stocks were constrained to an upper boundary by soil texture with greater AG C being associated with coarser textured soils. Vegetation and soil C stocks were coupled in the landscape in the top 5 cm of soil (r 2 = 0.24) but not with deeper soil C stocks, which were coupled to soil clay content (r 2 = 0.38). This study is one of the most complete transect studies in an African miombo woodland, and suggests that C stock distributions are strongly linked to topography and soil texture. To optimize sampling strategies for C stock assessments in miombo, soil C should be sampled at more than 26 m apart, and AG C should be sampled at more than 1,426 m apart in plots larger than 0.5 ha.
25622889|Texture is an important influence on organic matter (SOM) dynamics in upland soils but little is known about its role in riverine soils. We hypothesized that texture might be especially important to SOM accumulation in young alluvial soils. We combined the soil component of the CENTURY ecosystem model, which uses sand, silt, and clay concentration as primary variables, with a simple simulation model of fluvial deposition, and forest production to predict changes in soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) during primary succession on floodplains and terraces of the Queets River, Washington. Simulated soil C accumulated to a plateau of about 4000 g m at 110 years, closely matching observed patterns in an empirical chronosequence. Although direct fluvial OM deposition had only a small and short-lived influence on soil C, fluvial silt and clay deposition were an important influence on equilibrium C. The model underestimated soil N by about 35%, which appears to be due to failure of the model to account for N enrichment of an OM pool after its initial formation. These results suggest that basic influences on SOM retention in these young soils are not functionally different than those that apply to upland soils, but occur within highly dynamic physical contexts. Overbank deposition of silt and clay establishes a basic capacity for SOM retention. SOM, in turn, facilitates N retention. In this way, silt and clay are instrumental in propagating N forward from N-fixing red alder (Alnus rubra) stands to mature conifer forests that are frequently N-limited.
3658998|Floodplain forests are generally areas of high plant diversity compared with upland forests. Higher environmental heterogeneity, especially variation in belowground properties may help explain this high diversity. However, there is little information available on the spatial scale and pattern of belowground resources in floodplain forests. Geostatistics and coefficient of variation (CV) were used to describe the spatial variability of 20 soil properties ranging from essential plant nutrients, such as
40296322|In the highlands of Western Kenya, we investigated the reversibility of soil productivity decline with increasing length of continuous maize cultivation over 100 years (corresponding to decreasing soil organic carbon (SOC) and nutrient contents) using organic matter additions of differing quality and stability as a function of soil texture and inorganic nitrogen (N) additions. The ability of additions of labile organic matter (green and animal manure) to improve productivity primarily by enhanced nutrient availability was contrasted with the ability of stable organic matter (biochar and sawdust) to improve productivity by enhancing SOC. Maize productivity declined by 66% during the first 35 years of continuous cropping after forest clearing. Productivity remained at a low level of 3.0 t grain ha across the chronosequence stretching up to 105 years of continuous cultivation despite full N-phosphorus (P)-potassium (K) fertilization (120-100-100 kg ha). Application of organic resources reversed the productivity decline by increasing yields by 57-167%, whereby responses to nutrient-rich green manure were 110% greater than those from nutrient-poor sawdust. Productivity at the most degraded sites (80-105 years since forest clearing) increased in response to green manure to a greater extent than the yields at the least degraded sites (5 years since forest clearing), both with full N-P-K fertilization. Biochar additions at the most degraded sites doubled maize yield (equaling responses to green manure additions in some instances) that were not fully explained by nutrient availability, suggesting improvement of factors other than plant nutrition. There was no detectable influence of texture (soils with either 1114 or 4549% clay) when low quality organic matter was applied (sawdust, biochar), whereas productivity was 8, 15, and 39% greater (P < 0.05) on sandier than heavier textured soils with high quality organic matter (green and animal manure) or only inorganic nutrient additions, respectively. Across the entire degradation range, organic matter additions decreased the need for additional inorganic fertilizer N irrespective of the quality of the organic matter. For low quality organic resources (biochar and sawdust), crop yields were increasingly responsive to inorganic N fertilization with increasing soil degradation. On the other hand, fertilizer N additions did not improve soil productivity when high quality organic inputs were applied. Even with the tested full N-P-K fertilization, adding organic matter to soil was required for restoring soil productivity and most effective in the most degraded sites through both nutrient delivery (with green manure) and improvement of SOC (with biochar).
41507781|Modification of fire regimes in tropical savannas can have significant impacts on the global carbon (C) cycle, and therefore, on the climate system. In Australian tropical savannas, there has been recent, large-scale implementation of fire management that aims to decrease Kyoto-compliant non-CO greenhouse gas emissions by reducing late dry season intense fires through strategic early dry season burning. However, there is no accounting for changes to soil C stocks resulting from changes to savanna fire management, although impacts on these pools may be considerable. We present a hypothesis that soil C storage is greatest under low intensity fires with an intermediate fire return interval. Simulations using the CENTURY Soil Organic Matter Model confirmed this hypothesis with greatest soil C storage under a fire regime of one low intensity fire every 5 years. Key areas of uncertainty for CENTURY model simulations include fine root dynamics, charcoal production and nitrogen (N) cycling, and better understanding of these processes could improve model predictions. Soil C stocks measured in the field after 5 years of annual, 3 year and unburned fire treatments were not significantly different (range 41-58 t ha), but further CENTURY modelling suggests that changes in fire management will take up to 100 years to have a detectable impact (+4 t ha) on soil C stocks. However, implementation of fire management that reduces fire frequency and intensity within the large area of intact savanna landscapes in northern Australia could result in emissions savings of 0.17 t CO-e ha y, four times greater than reductions of non-CO emissions.
40603633|The STANDCARB 2.0 model was used to examine the effects of partial harvest of trees within stands on forest-related carbon (C) stores in a typical Pacific Northwest Pseudotsuga/Tsuga forest. For harvest rotation intervals of 20 to 250 years the effect of completely dispersed (that is, a checkerboard) versus completely aggregated cutting patterns (that is, single blocks) was compared. The simulations indicated that forests with frequent, but partial removal of live trees can store as much as those with complete tree harvest on less frequent intervals. Stores in forest products generally declined as the fraction of live trees harvested declined and as the interval between harvests increased. Although the proportion of total system stores in forest products increased as the frequency of harvests and proportion of trees removed increased, this did not offset the reduction in forest stores these treatments caused.Spatial arrangement of harvest influenced tree species composition profoundly; however, the effects of aggregated versus dispersed cutting patterns on stores were relatively small compared to the other treatments. This study indicates that there are multiple methods to increase stores in the forest sector including either increasing the time between harvests or reducing the fraction of trees harvested during each harvest.
3658853|Maps of potential habitat distribution are needed for regional population models of rare species, but reliable information from ground surveys is not always available. Existing data sources from disciplines other than ecological research often are underused. In this article, we discuss the development of a geographic information system (GIS) model that predicts potential habitats from ecosystem information contained in the US soil classification and soil survey. Soil classification and survey were used in the GIS model in an earlier study on the US Department of Energy's Oak Ridge Reservation, Tennessee, to predict threatened calcareous habitats. The model predicts potential habitats from the combination of (a) soil taxon as an indication of long-term ecosystem processes; (b) geologic parent material; and (c) slope class. Satellite imagery was added to indicate current successional state. In this study, we tested the model's predictive ability by using data from the Cedar Creek Slope Glades Preserve at the 44,000-ha US Department of Defense Fort Knox Military Reservation, Kentucky. We then used the model to predict occurrences of potential suitable habitat on the remainder of the Fort Knox reservation, including heavily impacted ordnance and tank training areas that are unsafe for public access. The soil component of the model also was applied to a
25053893|Deliberate progress towards the goal of long-term sustainability depends on understanding the dynamics of linked social and ecological systems. The concept of social-ecological resilience holds promise for interdisciplinary syntheses. Resilience is a multifaceted concept that as yet has not been directly operationalized, particularly in systems for which our ignorance is such that detailed, parameter-rich simulation models are difficult to develop. We present an exploratory framework as a step towards the operationalization of resilience for empirical studies. We equate resilience with the ability of a system to maintain its identity, where system identity is defined as a property of key components and relationships (networks) and their continuity through space and time. Innovation and memory are also fundamental to understanding identity and resilience. By parsing our systems into the elements that we subjectively consider essential to identity, we obtain a small set of specific focal variables that reflect changes in identity. By assessing the potential for changes in identity under specified drivers and perturbations, in combination with a scenario-based approach to considering alternative futures, we obtain a surrogate measure of the current resilience of our study system as the likelihood of a change in system identity under clearly specified conditions, assumptions, drivers and perturbations. Although the details of individual case studies differ, the concept of identity provides a level of generality that can be used to compare measure of resilience across cases. Our approach will also yield insights into the mechanisms of change and the potential consequences of different policy and management decisions, providing a level of decision support for each case study area.
40792957|Differences in litter decomposition patterns among mesic, semiarid, and arid grassland ecosystems cannot be accurately explained by variation in temperature, moisture, and litter chemistry alone. We hypothesized that ultraviolet (UV) radiation enhances decomposition in grassland ecosystems via photodegradation, more so in arid compared to mesic ecosystems, and in litter that is more recalcitrant to microbial decomposition (with high compared to low lignin concentrations). In a 2-year field study, we manipulated the amount of UV radiation reaching the litter layer at three grassland sites in Minnesota, Colorado, and New Mexico, USA, that represented mesic, semiarid, and arid grassland ecosystems, respectively. Two common grass leaf litter types of contrasting lignin: N were placed at each site under screens that either passed all solar radiation wavelengths or passed all but UV wavelengths. Decomposition was generally faster when litter was exposed to UV radiation across all three sites. In contrast to our hypothesis, the contribution of photodegradation in the decomposition process was not consistently greater at the more arid sites or for litter with higher lignin content. Additionally, at the most arid site, exposure to UV radiation could not explain decomposition rates that were faster than expected given climate constraints or lack of N immobilization by decomposing litter. Although photodegradation plays an important role in the decomposition process in a wider range of grassland sites than previously documented, it does not fully explain the differences in decomposition rates among grassland ecosystems of contrasting aridity.
3658843|Management and restoration of vegetation patterns in ecosystems depends on an understanding of allogenic environmental factors that organize species assemblages and autogenic processes linked to assemblages. However, our ability to make strong inferences about vegetation-environment linkages in field studies is often limited due to correlations among environmental variables, spatial autocorrelation, and scale dependency of observations. This is particularly true in large, heterogeneous ecosystems such as the Everglades. Here, an extensive canal-and-levee system has modified historical fire regimes and hydropatterns while contributing large inputs of surface-water phosphorus (P), nitrogen (N) and cations such as sodium (Na). Some of these anthropogenic influences have been implicated as factors leading to the shift of sawgrass (Cladium jamaicense Crantz) and slough communities to an assemblage of weedy species such as cattail (Typha domingensis Pers.). To untangle the independent effect of multiple variables, we used a spatially explicit, multivariate approach to identify linkages among spatial patterns, environmental factors, and vegetation composition along a 10-km gradient of anthropogenic influence in the Everglades, an area immediately downstream from canal inflow structures. Clusters of plots were stratified among three zones (Impacted, Transition, and Reference), a design that allowed us to contrast vegetation-environment linkages and spatial patterns at multiple scales and degrees of ecosystem alteration. Along the 10-km gradient, partial Mantel tests showed that nutrients (phosphorus, nitrogen, and potassium) and hydropattern (frequency of dryness) were independently linked to patterns in fine-scale vegetation composition, but phosphorus was the only environmental variable linked to patterns of coarse-scale composition. Regardless of scale, the effect of distance from canal inflows accounted for variation in vegetation that could not be explained by other variables. A significant residual effect of spatial proximity among sampling locations also was detected and was highly suggestive of dispersal or other spatial determinants of vegetation pattern. However, this pure spatial effect was significantly stronger in the Transition and Impacted zones than in the Reference zone-fine-scale environmental variables explained all of the spatial structure in vegetation in the Reference zone. A further examination of spatial patterns in vegetation by using Mantel correlograms revealed significant heterogeneity at fine, local scales in the Reference zone, but this pattern progressively degraded toward homogeneity among closely neighboring locations in the Impacted zone. However, the fine-scale vegetation pattern in the Reference zone was hierarchically nested at a broader scale and yielded a similar coarse pattern across the landscape, whereas the coarse pattern in the Transition and Impacted zones was relatively heterogeneous and fragmented. Collectively, these results indicate that allogenic spatial and environmental factors related to the canal system have disrupted the coupling between pattern and process by altering fine-scale vegetation-environment linkages and spatial patterns characteristic of the natural Everglades ecosystem.
40603638|Numerous studies have demonstrated alternative regimes in shallow lake ecosystems around the world, with one state dominated by submerged macrophytes and the other by phytoplankton.However, the stability of each regime, and thresholds at which lakes shift to the alternative regime, are poorly known. We used a cross-sectional analysis of 72 shallow lakes located in prairie and parkland areas of Minnesota, USA, during 2005 and 2006 to assess the occurrence of alternative regimes and shifts between them. Cluster analysis revealed two distinct groups of lakes characterized not only by different macrophyte abundance and chlorophyll a levels but also by different total phosphorus-chlorophyll a relationships. Thirtynine lakes were macrophyte-and 23 lakes phytoplankton-dominated in both years, whereas 10 sites shifted sharply between those regimes. We failed to detect a universal shifting threshold in terms of chlorophyll a or total phosphorus. However, 95% of the lakes with chlorophyll a concentrations less than 22 g l were in a clearwater regime, whereas 95% of the lakes with chlorophyll a higher than 31g l were in a turbid regime. Total phosphorus less than 62 g l was an accurate predictor of lakes in a stable clearwater regime, whereas a large change in biomass of planktivores and benthivores between years was the only variable weakly related to regime shifts.Our results support the theoretical prediction that regime thresholds vary among lakes. We recommend that lake managers focus on improving resilience of clear regimes in shallow lakes by reducing nutrient loading, rather than attempting to identify and manage complex triggers of regime shifts.
23325682|Mediterranean semi-arid forest ecosystems are especially sensitive to external forcing. An understanding of the relationship between forest carbon (C) stock, and environmental conditions and forest structure enable prediction of the impacts of climate change on C stocks and help to define management strategies that maximize the value of forests for C mitigation. Based on the national forest inventory of Spain (19972008 with 70,912 plots), we estimated the forest C stock and spatial variability in Peninsular Spain and, we determined the extent to which the observed patterns of stand C stock can be explained by structural and species richness, climate and disturbances. Spain has an average stand C stock of 45.1 Mg C/ha. Total C stock in living biomass is 621 Tg C (7.8% of the C stock of European forests). The statistical models show that structural richness, which is driven by past land use and life forest history including age, development stage, management activities, and disturbance regime, is the main predictor of stand tree C stock with larger C stocks in structurally richer stands. Richness of broadleaf species has a positive effect on both conifer and broadleaf forests, whereas richness of conifer species shows no significant or even a negative effect on C stock. Climate variables have mainly an indirect effect through structural richness but a smaller direct predictive ability when all predictors are considered. To achieve a greater standing C stock, our results suggest promoting high structural richness by managing for uneven-aged stands and favoring broadleaf over conifer species.
41507786|Predicting future impacts of anthropogenic change on tropical forests requires a clear understanding of nutrient constraints on productivity. We compared experimental fertilization and litter manipulation treatments in an old-growth lowland tropical forest to distinguish between the effects of inorganic nutrient amendments and changes in nutrient cycling via litterfall. We measured the changes in soil and litter nutrient pools, litterfall, and fine root biomass in plots fertilized with nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), or potassium (K), and in litter addition and litter removal treatments during 7 years. Soil inorganic N and litter N increased in double-litter plots but not in N-fertilized plots. Conversely, litter P and soil pools of P and increased in fertilized plots but not in the double-litter plots. Soil and litter pools of N and K decreased in the no-litter plots. Changes in litterfall with added nutrients or litter were only marginally significant, but fine root biomass decreased with both the litter and the K addition. Differences between the two experiments are mostly attributable to the coupled cycling of carbon and nutrients in litter. Increased nutrient inputs in litter may improve plant uptake of some nutrients compared to fertilization with similar amounts. The litter layer also appears to play a key role in nutrient retention. We discuss our findings in the context of possible impacts of anthropogenic change on tropical forests.
3659011|We investigated the effects on the reservoir food web of a new temperature control device (TCD) on the dam at Shasta Lake, California. We followed a linked modeling approach that used a specialized reservoir water quality model to forecast operation-induced changes in phytoplankton production. A food web-energy transfer model was also applied to propagate predicted changes in phytoplankton up through the food web to the predators and sport fishes of interest. The food web-energy transfer model employed a 10% trophic transfer efficiency through a food web that was mapped using carbon and nitrogen stable isotope analysis. Stable isotope analysis provided an efficient and comprehensive means of estimating the structure of the reservoir's food web with minimal sampling and background data. We used an optimization procedure to estimate the diet proportions of all food web components simultaneously from their isotopic signatures. Some consumers were estimated to be much more sensitive than others to perturbations to phytoplankton supply. The linked modeling approach demonstrated that interdisciplinary efforts enhance the value of information obtained from studies of managed ecosystems. The approach exploited the strengths of engineering and ecological modeling methods to address concerns that neither of the models could have addressed alone: (a) the water quality model could not have addressed quantitatively the possible impacts to fish, and (b) the food web model could not have examined how phytoplankton availability might change due to reservoir operations.
3659024|The study of forest landscape change requires an understanding of the complex interactions of both spatial and temporal factors. Traditionally, forest gap models have been used to simulate change on small and independent plots. While gap models are useful in examining forest ecological dynamics across temporal scales, large, spatial processes, such as seed dispersal cannot be realistically simulated across large landscapes. To simulate seed dispersal, spatially explicit landscape models that track individual species distribution are needed. We used such a model, LANDIS, to illustrate the implications of seed dispersal for simulating forest landscape change. On an artificial open landscape with a uniform environment, circular-shaped tree species establishment patterns resulted from the simulations, with areas near seed sources more densely covered than areas further from seed sources. Because LANDIS simulates at 10-y time steps, this pattern reflects an integration of various possible dispersal shapes and establishment that are caused by the annual variations in climate and other environmental variables. On real landscapes, these patterns driven only by species dispersal radii are obscured by other factors, such as species competition, disturbance, and landscape structure. To further demonstrate the effects of seed dispersal, we chose a fairly disturbed and fragmented forest landscape (approximately 500,000 ha) in northern Wisconsin. We compared the simulation results of a map with tree species (seed source locations) realistically parameterized (the real scenario) against a randomly parameterized species map (the random scenario). Differences in the initial seed source distribution lead to different simulation results of species abundance with species abundance starting at identical levels under the two scenarios. This is particularly true for the first half of the model run (0-250 y). Under the random scenario, infrequently occurring and shade tolerant species tend to be overestimated, while midabundant and midshade tolerant species tend to be underestimated. The over- and underestimation of species abundance diminish when examining longterm (500 y) landscape dynamics, because stochastic factors, such as fire, tend to make the landscapes under both scenarios converge. However, differences in spatial patterns, and especially species age-cohort distributions, can persist under the two scenarios for several hundred years.
25470361|Downstream from metropolitan Paris (France), a large amount of ammonium is discharged into the Seine River by the effluents of the wastewater treatment plant at Achres. To assess the extent of nitrification and denitrification in the water column, concentrations and isotopic compositions of ammonium (N-NH) and nitrate (N-NO, O-NO) were measured during summer low-flow conditions along the lower Seine and its estuary. The results indicated that most of the ammonium released from the wastewater treatment plant is nitrified in the lower Seine River and its upper estuary, but there was no evidence for water-column denitrification. In the lower part of the estuary, however, concentration and isotopic data for nitrate were not consistent with simple mixing between riverine and marine nitrate. A significant departure of the nitrate isotopic composition from what would be expected from simple mixing of freshwater and marine nitrates suggested coupled nitrification and denitrification in the water, in spite of the apparent conservative behavior of nitrate. Denitrification rates of approximately 0.02 mg N/L/h were estimated for this part of the estuary.
40603621|Understanding historical patterns of soil phosphorus (P) accumulation is critical to management of water quality across agricultural landscapes. To address the effects of long-term agricultural  management on soil P accumulation in the Saint Lawrence River sub-basin (574,000 km), we calculated cropland P budgets at decadal intervals from 1901 to 2001 for the sub-basin and its tributary watersheds. Agricultural census data were used to estimate P inputs in the form of fertilizer and manure, and outputs (P removed in harvested crops). The resulting balances indicate the potential magnitude of P accumulation in cropland soils. Cropland P surpluses occurred in the sub-basin in each decade of the past century, with the rate of accumulation increasing after 1951 due to more widespread use of P fertilizers and manure. The largest annual P surplus occurred in 1981 (42,000 Mg y), followed by a decline in the rate of accumulation to almost half that level by 2001 (24,850 Mg y) as a result of improved management of agricultural P. Comparison of the cumulative P surpluses estimated for the entire 20th century with measured soil P data indicates a strong linear relationship between these watershed P budgets and the average soil P content across the sub-basin (R = 0.712, P < 0.0001). These results support the view that historical land management can have important ecological legacies.
3658794|We present a mathematical model of the growth of coral subject to unidirectional ocean currents using concepts of porous-media flow and nonlinear dynamics in chemical systems. Linear stability analysis of the system of equations predicts that the growth of solid (coral) structures will be aligned perpendicular to flow, propagating against flow direction. Length scales of spacing between structures are selected based on chemical reaction and flow rates. In the fully nonlinear system, autocatalysis in the chemical reaction accelerates growth. Numerical analysis reveals that the nonlinear growth creates sharp fronts of high solid fraction that, as predicted by the linear stability, advance against the predominating flow direction. The findings of regularly spaced growth areas oriented perpendicular to flow are qualitatively supported on both a colonial and a regional reef scale.
3658670|Scaling issues are complex, yet understanding issues such as scale dependencies in ecological patterns and processes is usually critical if we are to make sense of ecological data and if we want to predict how land management options, for example, are constrained by scale. In this article, we develop the beginnings of a way to approach the complexity of scaling issues. Our approach is rooted in scaling functions, which integrate the scale dependency of patterns and processes in landscapes with the ways that organisms scale their responses to these patterns and processes. We propose that such functions may have sufficient generality that we can develop scaling rules-statements that link scale with consequences for certain phenomena in certain systems. As an example, we propose that in savanna ecosystems, there is a consistent relationship between the size of vegetation patches in the landscape and the degree to which critical resources, such as soil nutrients or water, become concentrated in these patches. In this case, the features of the scaling functions that underlie this rule have to do with physical processes, such as surface water flow and material redistribution, and the ways that patches of plants physically "capture" such runoff and convert it into plant biomass, thereby concentrating resources and increasing patch size. To be operationally useful, such scaling rules must be expressed in ways that can generate predictions. We developed a scaling equation that can be used to evaluate the potential impacts of different disturbances on vegetation patches and on how soils and their nutrients are conserved within Australian savanna landscapes. We illustrate that for a 10- km
43677534|A critical challenge for ecologists is to understand the functional significance of habitat heterogeneity and connectivity for mobile animals. Here, we explore how a thermo-regulating fish responds to annual variation in the spatial patterning of thermal and trophic resources. In a third-order stream in coastal Alaska, juvenile coho salmon forage on sockeye salmon eggs at night in cold water and then move to warmer water to increase their digestive capacity. We mapped the spatial distributions of water temperature, juvenile coho salmon, and spawning sockeye salmon across a 5-year period during which summer discharge varied by greater than fivefold. In low flow years, warm water (9-12C) was only available in thalweg (that is, main-channel) habitat at least approximately 400 m upstream of the cooler habitat (3-7C) where sockeye salmon spawned. In high flow years, the entire stream thalweg was isothermal at 7-8C, but inundated off-channel areas generated warm habitats (9-12C) laterally adjacent to the downstream regions where sockeye salmon spawned. The daytime spatial distribution of juvenile coho salmon shifted from headwater thalweg habitats in low flow years, to downstream off-channel habitats in high flow years. In all years, the majority of juvenile coho salmon sampled during the daytime were found in warm habitat units without sockeye salmon present, yet they exhibited diet contents comprised virtually entirely of sock-eye salmon eggs. Thus, thermoregulatory movements by coho salmon were able to track an annually shifting mosaic of water temperature. Our results demonstrate how the spatial habitat heterogeneity and connectivity of intact floodplains can in turn buffer aquatic organisms from high levels of temporal variation in habitat conditions and resource abundance.
23253687|The expansion of shrubs into tundra areas is a key terrestrial change underway in the Arctic in response to elevated temperatures during the twentieth century. Repeat photography permits a glimpse into greening satellite pixels, and it shows that, since 1950, some shrub patches have increased rapidly (hereafter expanding), while others have increased little or not at all (hereafter stable). We characterized and compared adjacent expanding and stable shrub patches across Arctic Alaska by sampling a wide range of physical and chemical soil and vegetation properties, including shrub growth rings. Expanding patches of Alnus viridis ssp. fruticosa (Siberian alder) contained shrub stems with thicker growth rings than in stable patches. Alder growth in expanding patches also showed strong correlation with spring and summer warming, whereas alder growth in stable patches showed little correlation with temperature. Expanding patches had different vegetation composition, deeper thaw depth, higher mean annual ground temperature, higher mean growing season temperature, lower soil moisture, less carbon in mineral soil, and lower C:N values in soils and shrub leaves. Expanding patcheshigher resource environmentswere associated with floodplains, stream corridors, and outcrops. Stable patcheslower resource environmentswere associated with poorly drained tussock tundra. Collectively, we interpret these differences as implying that preexisting soil conditions predispose parts of the landscape to a rapid response to climate change, and we therefore expect shrub expansion to continue penetrating the landscape via dendritic floodplains, streams, and scattered rock outcrops.
23328056|Treeline advance alters albedo and carbon storage and is an important feedback mechanism to the global climate system. Establishment of trees north of the treeline requires favorable climate, suitable microsites, and viable seeds. Here we studied the influence of climate and microsite conditions on tree and seedling growth at four transects from forest through woodland to tundra in NW Russia, and tested the viability of seeds from the region. General growth patterns and establishment periods of the treeline species Picea obovata are similar across the study sites suggesting a regional driver (for example, climate). Individuals established as early as the 1640s, but mainly between 1850 and 1880, and during a major and continental scale establishment wave in the 1950s and 1960s. No establishment occurred after 1982. Older trees mainly showed significant and stable positive relationships to growing year summer temperatures and significant stable negative correlations to previous year summer temperatures in nearly all plots. Trees from the last establishment wave showed more mixed responses, but current year summer temperature positively affected growth. Active layer depth was similar in all plots with trees but decreased sharply in treeless tundra. A major role for the lack of recent establishment seems to be very low seed viability, possibly combined with early strong fall frosts, which might have severely limited successful recruitment in the last decades of the twentieth century. For a successful establishment of P. obovata in tundra areas of NW Russia, permafrost degradation and (generally) warmer winters might be a prerequisite.
3658626|Ecosystem nutrient use efficiency-the ratio of net primary productivity to soil nutrient supply-is an integrative measure of ecosystem functioning. High productivity and nutrient retention in natural systems are frequently attributed to high species diversity, even though some single-species systems can be highly productive and effective at resource capture. We investigated the effects of both individual species and life-form diversity on ecosystem nutrient use efficiency using model tropical ecosystems comprised of monocultures of three tree species and polycultures in which each of the tree species was coplanted with species of two additional life forms. Tree species significantly influenced nutrient use efficiency by whole ecosystems in monocultures; however, in polycultures, the additional life forms interacted with the influence exerted by the dominant tree. Furthermore, the presence of the additional life forms significantly increased nutrient uptake and uptake efficiency, but in only two of the three systems and 2 of the 4 years of the study period. These results indicate that the effect of lifeform diversity on ecosystem functioning is not constant and that there may be temporal shifts in the influence exerted by different components of the community. Furthermore, although species (and life forms) exerted considerable influence on ecosystem nutrient use efficiency, this efficiency was most closely related to soil nutrient availability. These findings demonstrate that ecosystem nutrient use efficiency is an outcome not only of the characteristics of the species or life forms that comprise the system but also of factors that affect soil nutrient supply. The results argue against the simple upward scaling of nutrient use efficiency from leaves and plants to ecosystems.
41505862|Soil redox plays a key role in regulating biogeochemical transformations in terrestrial ecosystems, but the temporal and spatial patterns in redox and associated controls within and across ecosystems are poorly understood. Upland humid tropical forest soils may be particularly prone to fluctuating redox as abundant rainfall limits oxygen (O) diffusion through finely textured soils and high biological activity enhances O consumption. We used soil equilibration chambers equipped with automated sensors to determine the temporal variability in soil oxygen concentrations in two humid tropical forests with different climate regimes. We also measured soil trace gases (CO, NO, and CH) as indices of redox-sensitive biogeochemistry. On average, the upper elevation cloud forest had significantly lower O concentrations (3.0  0.8%) compared to the lower elevation wet tropical forest (7.9  1.1%). Soil O was dynamic, especially in the wet tropical forest, where concentrations changed as much as 10% in a single day. The periodicity in the O time series at this site was strongest at 16 day intervals and was associated with the hourly precipitation. Greenhouse gas concentrations differed significantly between sites, but the relationships with soil O were consistent: O was negatively related to both CO and CH and positively related to NO. These results are among the first to quantify the temporal and spatial scale of variability in soil redox in humid tropical forests, and show that the timing of precipitation plays a strong role in biogeochemical cycling on the scale of hours to weeks.
43677504|Most studies of land change have focused on patterns, rates, and drivers of deforestation, but much less is known about the dynamics associated with agricultural abandonment and ecosystem recovery. Furthermore, most studies are conducted at a single spatial scale, and few have included variables related with internal socio-political conflicts. Here we evaluated the effect of environmental, demographic, and socio-economic variables on woody cover change in Colombia between 2001 and 2010 at the country, biome, and ecoregion scales. We also incorporated factors that reflect the unique history of Colombia such as the presence of illegalarmed groups and forced human displacement. Environmental variables explained the patterns of deforestation and forest regrowth at all scales because they can restrict or encourage different land uses across multiple spatial scales. Demographic variables were important at the biome and ecoregion scales and appear to be a consequence of the armed conflict, particularly through forced human displacement (for example, rural-urban migration), which in some areas has resulted in forest regrowth. In other areas, the impact of illegal armed groups has reduced forest cover, particularly in areas rich in gold and lands appropriate for cattle grazing. This multi-scale and multivariate approach provides a new insight into the complex relationship between woody cover change and land abandonment triggered mainly by armed conflict.
3658985| Ground-based measurements of stores, growth, mortality, litterfall, respiration, and decomposition were conducted in an old-growth forest at Wind River Experimental Forest, Washington, USA. These measurements were used to estimate gross primary production (GPP) and net primary production (NPP); autotrophic respiration
3658931|Fish communities in prairie wetlands are extremely dynamic. Due to complete winterkills and periodic colonization, individual basins alternate between supporting a fish population and being fishless. Here we assess the ecological consequences of colonization and subsequent extinction of a fathead minnow population in a prairie wetland. We used a BACI-type approach (before-after control impact) in which data from the colonized wetland were paired with data from a similar fishless site first when both wetlands were fishless (1996), then when the minnow population reached moderate densities in the colonized site (1998), and then again when the colonized site became fishless after treatment with rotenone (1999). Fish colonization resulted in significant increases in turbidity, total phosphorus, and chlorophyll a in the water column; it also caused significant decreases in the abundance of aquatic insects and large cladocerans. Elimination of the minnow population largely reversed the effects of minnow colonization. Our results indicate that characteristics of prairie wetlands can vary as they alternate between supporting fathead minnow populations and being fishless and that ecological characteristics may change rapidly in response to minnow colonization or elimination.
25622899|In the Florida Everglades, tree islands are conspicuous heterogeneous elements in the herbaceous wetland landscape. We characterized the biogeochemical role of a seasonally flooded tree island during wet season inundation, specifically examining hydrologically mediated flows of nitrogen (N) and N retention by the tree island. We estimated ecosystem N standing stocks and fluxes, soil and litter N transformation rates, and hydrologic fluxes of N to quantify the net ecosystem N mass flux. Results showed that hydrologic sources of N were dominated by surface water loads of nitrate (NO) and ammonium (NH). Nitrate immobilization by soils and surficial leaf litter was an important sink for surface water dissolved inorganic N (DIN). We estimated that the net annual DIN retention by a seasonally flooded tree island was 20.5  5.0 g m during wet season inundation. Based on the estimated tree island surface water DIN loading rate, a seasonally flooded tree island retained 76% of imported DIN. As such, seasonally flooded tree islands have the potential to retain 55% of DIN entering the marsh landscape via upstream canal overland flow in the wet season. By increasing reactive surface area and DOC availability, we suggest that tree islands promote convergence of elements that enhance DIN retention. Tree islands of this region are thus important components of landscape-scale restoration efforts that seek to reduce sources of anthropogenic DIN to downstream estuaries.
25470390|Detailed information from the Swedish National Forest Inventory was used to simulate the carbon balance for Sweden by the process-based model Biome-BGC. A few shortcomings of the model were identified and solutions to those are proposed and also used in the simulations. The model was calibrated against CO flux data from 3 forests in central Sweden and then applied to the whole country divided into 30 districts and 4 age classes. Gross primary production (GPP) ranged over districts and age classes from 0.20 to 1.71 kg C m y and net ecosystem production (NEP) ranged from -0.01 to 0.44. The 10- to 30-year age class was the strongest carbon sink because of its relatively low respiration rates. When the simulation results were scaled up to the whole country, GPP and NEP were 175 and 29 Mton C y, respectively, for the 22.7 Mha of forests in Sweden. A climate change scenario was simulated by assuming a 4C increase in temperature and a doubling of the CO concentration; GPP and NEP then increased to 253 and 48 Mton C y, respectively. A sensitivity analysis showed that at present CO concentrations NEP would peak at an increase of 5C for the mean annual temperature. At higher CO levels NEP showed a logarithmic increase.
3658627|We described, classified, and mapped the functional heterogeneity of temperate South America using the seasonal dynamics of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) from NOAA/AVHRR satellites for a 10-year period. From the seasonal curves of NDVI, we calculated (a) the annual integral (NDVI-1), used as an estimate of the fraction of photosynthetic active radiation absorbed by the canopy and hence of primary production, (b) the relative annual range of NDVI (RREL), and (c) the date of maximum NDVI (MMAX), both of which were used to capture the seasonality of primary production. NDVI-1 decreased gradually from the northeastern part of the study region (southern Brazil and Uruguay) toward the southwest (Patagonia). High precipitation areas dominated by rangelands had higher NDVI-1 and lower RREL values than neighboring areas dominated by crops. The relative annual range of NDVI was maximum for the northern portion of the Argentine pampas (high cover of summer crops) and the subantarctic forests in southern Chile (high cover of deciduous tree species). More than 25% of the area showed an NDVI peak in November. Around 40% of the area presented the maximum NDVI during summer. The pampas showed areas with sharp differences in the timing of the NDVI peak associated with different agricultural systems. In the southern pampas, NDVI peaked early (October-November); whereas in the northeastern pampas, NDVI peaked in late summer (February). We classified temperate South America into 19 ecosystem functional types (EFT). The methodology used to define EFTs has advantages over traditional approaches for land classification that are based on structural features. First, the NDVI traits used have a clear biological meaning. Second, remote-sensing data are available worldwide. Third, the continuous record of satellite data allows for a dynamic characterization of ecosystems and landcover changes.
3659066|Previous work in a young Hawaiian forest has shown that nitrogen (N) limits aboveground net primary production (ANPP) more strongly than it does decomposition, despite low soil N availability. In this study, I determined whether (a) poor litter C quality (that is, high litter lignin) poses an overriding constraint on decomposition, preventing decomposers from responding to added N, or (b) high N levels inhibit lignin degradation, lessening the effects of added N on decomposition overall. I obtained leaf litter from one species, Metrosideros polymorpha, which dominates a range of sites in the Hawaiian Islands and whose litter lignin concentration declines with decreasing precipitation. Litter from three dry sites had lignin concentrations of 12% or less, whereas litter from two wet sites, including the study site, had lignin concentrations of more than 18%. This litter was deployed 2.5 years in a common site in control plots (receiving no added nutrients) and in N-fertilized plots. Nitrogen fertilization stimulated decomposition of the low-lignin litter types more than that of the high-lignin litter types. However, in contrast to results from temperate forests, N did not inhibit lignin decomposition. Rather, lignin decay increased with added N, suggesting that the small effect of N on decomposition at this site results from limitation of decomposition by poor C quality rather than from N inhibition of lignin decay. Even though ANPP is limited by N, decomposers are strongly limited by C quality. My results suggest that anthropogenic N deposition may increase leaf litter decomposition more in ecosystems characterized by low-lignin litter than in those characterized by high-lignin litter.
3659025|Dendrochronological studies and forest inventory surveys have reported increased growth and biospheric carbon (C) sequestration for European forests in the recent past. The potential of concomitant changes in forest soil C stocks are not accounted for in the IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories. We developed a model-based approach to address this problem and assess the role of soils in forest C balance in the European Alps. The decomposition model ForClim-D was driven by long-term (that is, 1900-1985 AD) litter input scenarios constructed from forest inventory data, region-specific dendrochronological basal area indices, and time series of anthropogenic litter removal. The effect of spatial climate variability on organic matter decomposition across the case study region (Switzerland) was explicitly accounted for by constant long-term annual means of actual evapotranspiration and temperature. Uncertainties in forest development, litter removal, fine root litter input, and dynamics of forest soil C were studied by an explorative factorial sensitivity analysis. We found that forest soils contribute substantially to the biospheric C sequestration for Switzerland: Our "best estimate" yielded an increase of 0.35 Mt C/y or 0.33 t C/(ha y) in forest soils for 1985, that is, 27% of the C sequestered by forest trees (BUWAL 1994). Uncertainties regarding C accumulation in forest soils were substantial (0.11-0.58 Mt C/y) but could be reduced by estimating forest soil C stocks in the future. Whereas soils can be important for the C balance in naturally regrowing forests, their C sequestration is negligible (less than 5%) relative to anthropogenic CO
40296370|The emergence of 17-year periodical cicadas in Maryland, USA, in 2004 provided a unique opportunity to study the effect of a large, but temporally limited, resource pulse of arthropod detritus on stream ecosystem function. Cicada emergence was quantified in the forests adjacent to two small streams with different histories of riparian disturbance (Intact and Disturbed sites). We estimated the input of cicada detritus to the streams, described its retention and breakdown dynamics, and measured whole-stream respiration over the cicada flight season (May-July). Average emergence density was significantly greater at the Intact site, but average cicada detritus input rates were greater at the Disturbed site. Cicada detritus was locally retained within both streams and rapidly broke down. Daily whole-stream respiration (CR) at both sites responded dramatically to the cicada pulse, with CR doubling pre-cicada measurements following the period of greatest cicada input (Intact: 12.82  23.78 g O m; d ; Disturbed: 2.76  5.77 g O m d) . CR returned to baseline levels when cicada input decreased at the Intact site, but more than doubled again at the Disturbed site (13.14 g O m d), despite a decline in cicada input rate. Differences in respiration response may be a function of differences in cicada input rates as well as differences in microbial community activity. The strong effects on stream ecosystem function exerted by a short but intense input of periodical cicada detritus may provide insights regarding the response of streams to other irregular resource pulses.
27823724|A principle of the cross-scale interaction (CSI) framework is that disturbance-induced landscape changes resulting in coarser-grained spatial structure may non-linearly amplify transfer processes across scales. We studied suspended sediment losses at two spatial scales (0.24 m2 plots and ca. 0.25 ha hillslopes of about 140 m in length) in a semiarid savanna landscape to determine whether the spatial structure of grassy and bare soil areas introduced a non-linear amplification of sediment loss. Sediment loss rates from 0.24 m2 bare plots averaged 1.527 t ha1 y1, which was 23 times the loss rate from nearby grassy plots (0.066 t ha1 y1). These rates were then extrapolated linearly to two hillslopes separated by only 200 m and having similar total grass cover, slope and soil type but differing in the spatial structure of bare soil patches. The coarse-grained hillslope had a large bare patch on its lower slope, whereas the fine-grained hillslope had no bare soil patches when quantified at a 4 m grid-cell resolution. Measured sediment loss from the fine-grained hillslope averaged 0.050 t ha1 y1, whereas the average sediment loss from the coarse-grained hillslope was 2.133 t ha1 y1. By linearly extrapolating from the plot scale, the expected sediment loss for the fine-grained hillslope was 0.066 t ha1 y1, which is similar to that observed. The expected sediment loss for the coarse-grained hillslope was 0.855 t ha1 y1, where linear extrapolation assumed a 46:54 ratio of bare to grassy plots and that the spatial arrangement of plots does not affect sediment loss processes. For the coarse-grained hillslope observed sediment loss is 2.5 times greater than that expected by linear extrapolation from the plot scale. This result indicates a cross-scale interaction related to spatial configuration of patches. We suggest that there were non-linearities in hillslope ecohydrological transfer processes (runoff, erosion) across scales due to a specific patch configuration that greatly amplified sediment loss because the pattern failed to slow runoff and retain sediment before it entered a creek. This example supports the CSI framework and indicates the importance of considering the effect of spatial structure when predicting system dynamics at different scales.
3658617|CO
40603637|Mammal grazing is composed of three mechanisms removal of foliar tissue (defoliation), return of nutrients via dung and urine (fertilization), and trampling. To evaluate the relative role of these mechanisms in the effect of reindeer grazing on soil biota in northern grasslands, we subjected experimental plots in a sub-arctic alpine meadow to defoliation, fertilization (using NPK-solution), simulated trampling, and their factorial combinations once a year from 2002 to 2004 and measured the response of plants and decomposers (including microbes, nematodes, collembolans, and enchytraeids) in 2004. Trampling affected both plant and decomposer communities: the coverage of the moss Pleurozium schreberi and the sedge Carex vaginata, as well as the abundance of collembolans and enchytraeids were reduced in trampled plots. Trampling and fertilization also interacted significantly, with fertilization increasing the abundance of bacteria and bacterial-feeding and omnivorous nematodes in trampled plots only, and trampling decreasing fungal biomass in non-fertilized plots only. Defoliation had no overall effects on plants or decomposers. Nematode genera were not affected by the experimental treatments, but nematode and plant communities were significantly associated, and all decomposer biota, except collembolans, were strongly affected by the spatial heterogeneity of the study site. Our results indicate that trampling may have larger and defoliation and fertilization smaller roles than anticipated in explaining reindeer grazing effects in sub-arctic grasslands. However, even the effects of trampling seem to be outweighed by the spatial heterogeneity of decomposer abundances. This suggests that in subarctic grasslands spatial variation in abiotic factors can be a more important factor than grazing in controlling soil biota abundances.
25622883|We studied the effect of long-term water table drawdown on the vascular plant community in an ombrotrophic bog in central Finland by measuring aboveground biomass and belowground production (by in-growth cores) across plant functional groups including herbs, shrubs, and trees. We compared drained and undrained portions 45 years after the installation of a drainage ditch network, which has lowered water levels of 15-20 cm on average in the drained part of the site. Although shrub fine root production did not differ significantly between sites, water table drawdown increased belowground tree fine root production by 740% (3.8  5.4 SD and 28.1  24.1 g m y in undrained and drained sites, respectively) at the expense of herb root production, which declined 38% (27.62  16.40 and 10.58  15.7 g m y in undrained and drained sites, respectively) yielding no significant overall change in total fine root production. Drainage effects on aboveground biomass showed a similar pattern among plant types, as aboveground tree biomass increased dramatically with drainage (79  135 and 2546  1551 g m in drained and undrained sites, respectively). Although total shrub biomass was not significantly different between sites, shrubs allocated more biomass to stems than leaves in the drained site. Drainage also caused a significant shift in shrub species composition. Although trees dominated the aboveground biomass following water table drawdown, understorey vegetation, mainly shrubs, continued to dominate belowground fine root production, comprising 64% of total root production at the drained site. Aboveground biomass proved to be a good predictor of belowground production, suggesting that allometric relationships can be developed to estimate belowground production in these systems. Increase in tree root production can counteract decrease in herb fine root production following water table drawdown, emphasizing the importance of plant functional type responses to water table drawdown. Whether these changes will offset ecosystem C loss via increased plant C storage or stimulate soil organic matter decomposition via increased above- and belowground litter inputs requires further study.
27823656|During the past century, Lake Tkern and Lake Krankesjn, southern Sweden, have shifted repeatedly between a state of clear water and abundant submerged vegetation, and a state of turbid water and sparse vegetation. Long-term empirical data on such apparently alternative stable state dynamics are valuable as complements to modeling and experiments, although the causal mechanisms behind shifts are often difficult to identify in hindsight. Here, we summarize previous studies and discuss possible mechanisms behind the shifts. The most detailed information comes from monitoring of two recent shifts, one in each lake. In the 1980s, L. Krankesjn shifted to clear water following an expansion of sago pondweed, Potamogeton pectinatus. Water clarity increased when the pondweed was replaced by characeans. Zooplankton biomass in summer declined and the concentration of total phosphorus (TP) was reduced to half the previous level. The fish community changed over several years, including an increasing recruitment of piscivorous perch (Perca fluviatilis). An opposite directed shift to turbid water occurred in Lake Tkern in 1995, when biomass of phytoplankton increased in spring, at the expense of submerged vegetation. Consistent with the findings in L. Krankesjn, phyto- and zooplankton biomass increased and the average concentration of TP doubled. After the shift to clear water in L. Krankesjn, TP concentration has increased during the latest decade, supporting the idea that accumulation of nutrients may lead to a long-term destabilization of the clear water state. In L. Tkern, data on TP are inconclusive, but organic nitrogen concentrations oscillated during the 25-year period of clear water. These observations indicate that intrinsic processes cause gradual or periodic changes in system stability, although we cannot exclude the possibility that external forces are also involved. During such phases of destabilization of the clear water state, even small disturbances could possibly trigger a shift, which may explain why causes behind shifts are hard to identify even when they occur during periods of extensive monitoring.
3658598|Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) is positively related to mean annual precipitation, an estimate of water availability. This relationship is fundamental to our understanding and management of grassland ecosystems. However, the slope of the relationship between ANPP and precipitation (precipitation-use efficiency, PUE) has been shown to be different for temporal compared with spatial precipitation series. When ANPP and precipitation are averaged over a number of years for different sites, PUE is similar for grasslands all over the world. Studies for two US Long Term Ecological Research Sites have shown that PUE derived from a longterm dataset (temporal model) has a significantly lower slope than the value derived for sites distributed across the US central grassland region (spatial model). PUE differences between the temporal model and the spatial model may be associated with both vegetational and biogeochemical constraints. Here we use two independent datasets, one derived from field estimates of ANPP and the other from remote sensing, to show that the PUE is low at both the dry end and the wet end of the annual precipitation gradient typical of grassland areas (200-1200 mm), and peaks around 475 mm. The intermediate peak may be related to relatively low levels of both vegetational and biogeochemical constraints at this level of resource availability.
3659026|Nonindigenous species may exert strong effects on ecosystem structure and function. The zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) has been attributed with profound changes in invaded ecosystems across eastern North America. We explored vertical profiles of water flow velocity and chlorophyll a concentration in western Lake Erie, over rocky substrates encrusted with Dreissena, to assess the extent to which mussels influence coupling between benthic and pelagic regions of the lake. Flow velocity was always low at surveyed sites (less than or equal to
3659027|Humanity's dependence on ecosystem support is "mentally hidden" to large segments of society; it has no price in the market and is seldom accounted for in decision making. Similarly, the needs of ecosystems for fresh water for generation of nature's services are largely invisible. Freshwater assessments predominantly have focused on human uses of liquid water in rivers, lakes, and reservoirs. We estimated the spatial appropriation of terrestrial and marine ecosystems-the ecological footprint-of the 85 million inhabitants in the Baltic Sea drainage basin with regard to consumption of food and timber and waste assimilation of nutrients and carbon dioxide. We also estimated the amount of fresh water-the water vapor flow-that the inhabitants depend upon for their appropriation of these ecosystem services. The ecological footprint estimate corresponds to an area as large as 8.5-9.5 times the Baltic Sea and its drainage basin with a per capita ecosystem appropriation of
23501441|The turnover of organic matter in soil depends on the activity of microbial decomposers. However, little is known about how modifications of the diversity of soil microbial communities induced by fresh organic matter (FOM) inputs can regulate carbon cycling. Here, we investigated the decomposition of two 13 C labeled crop residues (wheat and alfalfa) and the dynamics of the genetic structure and taxonomic composition of the soil bacterial communities decomposing 13 C labeled FOM and native unlabeled soil organic matter (SOM), respectively. It was achieved by combining the stable isotope probing method with molecular tools (DNA genotyping and pyrosequencing of 16S rDNA). Although a priming effect (PE) was always induced by residue addition, its intensity increased with the degradability of the plant residue. The input of both wheat and alfalfa residues induced a rapid dynamics of FOM-degrading communities, corresponding to the stimulation of bacterial phyla which have been previously described as copiotrophic organisms. However, the dynamics and the identity of the bacterial groups stimulated depended on the residue added, with Firmicutes dominating in the wheat treatment and Proteobacteria dominating in the alfalfa treatment after 3 days of incubation. In both treatments, SOM-degrading communities were dominated by Acidobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, and Gemmatimonadetes phyla which have been previously described as oligotrophic organisms. An early stimulation of SOM-degrading populations mainly belonging to Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes groups was observed in the alfalfa treatment whereas no change occurred in the wheat treatment. Our findings support the hypothesis that the succession of bacterial taxonomic groups occurring in SOM- and FOM-degrading communities during the degradation process may be an important driver of the PE, and consequently of carbon dynamics in soil.
40603623|Cities can transform ecosystems in multiple ways, through modification of land use and land cover and through exposure to altered physical, chemical, and biological conditions characteristic of urban environments. We compared the multiple impacts of urbanization on microbial carbon (C) and nutrient cycling in ecosystems across Phoenix, Arizona, one of the fastest growing metropolitan areas in the USA. Land-use/land-cover change from desert to managed ecosystems altered soil microbial functioning, primarily through changes in organic matter supply. Although residential xeriscapes often feature native plants and patchy structure like deserts, spatial heterogeneity in soil biogeochemical cycling was not tightly linked to plant canopies. Grassy lawns exhibited higher nitrogen (N) and phosphorus demand by microorganisms than other landscape types, suggesting that high C quality may effectively sequester these nutrients during periods between fertilization events. Soils in native desert remnants exposed to the urban environment had higher organic matter content, but supported lower activities of extracellular peroxidase enzymes compared to outlying deserts. Experimental N enrichment of desert systems decreased peroxidase activities to a similar extent, suggesting that protected desert remnants within the city are receiving elevated N loads that are altering biogeochemical functioning. Although some microbial processes were spatially homogenized in urban desert remnants, resource islands associated with plants remain the dominant organizing factor for most soil properties. The extent to which native desert preserves within the city functionally resemble managed xeriscapes and lawns suggests that these remnant ecosystems are being 'domesticated' by exposure to the urban environment.
25053874|Understanding spatial patterns of net primary production (NPP) is central to the study of terrestrial ecosystems, but efforts are frequently hampered by a lack of spatial information regarding factors such as nitrogen availability and site history. Here, we examined the degree to which canopy nitrogen can serve as an indicator of patterns of NPP at the Bartlett Experimental Forest in New Hampshire by linking canopy nitrogen estimates from two high spectral resolution remote sensing instruments with field measurements and an ecosystem model. Predicted NPP across the study area ranged from less than 700 g
41505943|The 1988 Yellowstone fires were among the first in what has proven to be an upsurge in large severe fires in the western USA during the past 20 years. At the time of the fires, little was known about the impacts of such a large severe disturbance because scientists had had few previous opportunities to study such an event. Ecologists predicted shortand long-term effects of the 1988 fires on vegetation, biogeochemistry, primary productivity, wildlife, and aquatic ecosystems based on scientific understanding of the time. Twenty-plus years of subsequent study allow these early predictions to be evaluated. Most of the original predictions were at least partially supported, but some predictions were refuted, others nuanced, and a few postfire phenomena were entirely unexpected. Post-1988 Yellowstone studies catalyzed advances in ecology focused on the importance of spatial and temporal heterogeneity, contingent influences, and multiple interacting drivers. Post-1988 research in Yellowstone also has changed public perceptions of fire as an ecological process and attitudes towards fire management. Looking ahead to projected climate change and more frequent large fires, the welldocumented ecological responses to the 1988 Yellowstone fires provide a foundation for detecting and evaluating potential changes in fire regimes of temperate mountainous regions.
3659054|To cope with the daunting challenges posed by system complexity while maximizing their organizational interests, resource management institutions must implement strategies aimed at reducing some of the particular dimensions of complexity. Virtually all of the recent initiatives to improve resource management-ecosystem management, adaptive management, stakeholder negotiation, disturbance prevention, multiple mandates for resource management agencies, resource homogenization, restoration ecology, the creation of protected areas, the restoration of local-user rights, and algorithmic resource exploitation rules-are vulnerable to inappropriate interest-driven simplifications, many of which result from patterns of perverse learning. A research agenda designed to identify better means of coping with complexity and the effects of organizational interests could help to improve resource and environmental management.
3658990|Land-use changes considerably alter the patterns and processes of terrestrial ecosystems. In an attempt to assess the impact of the human domination of ecosystems, this study quantifies the effect of human activities on aboveground carbon stocks in vegetation, based on a comparison of potential and actual vegetation in Austria. Following an accounting approach, statistical and GIS data on vegetation, elevation, land use, biomass harvest, as well as forest inventories and real estate statistics, were entered into the assessment, which was performed at the level of municipalities (n = 2,350). The results show that aboveground carbon storage in Austria has been considerably reduced by human activities. Actual vegetation contains 64% less carbon than would be expected in potential vegetation. The conversion of forests to cropland, grasslands, and urban areas has contributed 77% to this reduction in carbon stocks, the remaining 23% is due to forest management. In Austria, aboveground carbon stocks in forests have been reduced by 30% due to reductions in stand age and changes in forest species composition. Placing the data in a historical context, this analysis suggests that the current terrestrial carbon sink is a reversal of past carbon losses.
27823752|Long-term changes in soil phosphorus influence ecosystem development and lead to a decline in the productivity of forests in undisturbed landscapes. Much of the soil phosphorus occurs in a series of organic compounds that differ in their availability to organisms, but changes in the relative abundance of these compounds during pedogenesis remain unknown. We used alkaline extraction and solution phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to assess the chemical nature of soil organic phosphorus along a 120,000-year post-glacial chronosequence at Franz Josef, New Zealand. Inositol phosphates, DNA, phospholipids, and phosphonates accumulated rapidly during the first 500 years of soil development characterized by nitrogen limitation of biological productivity, but then declined slowly to low concentrations in older soils characterized by intense phosphorus limitation. However, the relative contribution of the various compounds to the total organic phosphorus varied along the sequence in dramatic and surprising ways. The proportion of inositol hexakisphosphate, conventionally considered to be relatively recalcitrant in the environment, declined markedly in older soils, apparently due to a corresponding decline in amorphous metal oxides, which weather to crystalline forms during pedogenesis. In contrast, the proportion of DNA, considered relatively bioavailable in soil, increased continually throughout the sequence, due apparently to incorporation within organic structures that provide protection from biological attack. The changes in soil organic phosphorus coincided with marked shifts in plant and microbial communities, suggesting that differences in the forms and bioavailability of soil organic phosphorus have ecological significance. Overall, the results strengthen our understanding of phosphorus transformations during pedogenesis and provide important insight into factors regulating the composition of soil organic phosphorus.
27823729|Broad scale survey distributions of fish are dominated by some extremely high catches. With a novel survey design we resolved the small-scale fish distribution in the spatio-temporal vicinity of these extreme hauls and showed that in the North Sea they generally do not occur in isolation. An additional case study where stomach contents of fish predators were analyzed revealed that they actually indicate aggregations of piscivorous fish predators on prey aggregations. We show that the predation impact can reach immense dimensions, an aggregation of more than 50 million juvenile cod (Gadus morhua) was entirely wiped out in 5 days by predatory whiting (Merlangius merlangus), aggregating on these juveniles in an area of approximately 18 km2. The consumption of only 32 hot spots of similar magnitude as observed in our study adds up to the average size of an incoming North Sea cod year class. These findings support the hypothesis of predation as the major source of mortality in young-of-the-year demersal fish species and questions the generality of fish aggregation as an effective anti-predator strategy. This study highlights the system-wide structuring force of small-scale predation hot spots and further points to the importance of a more realistic implementation of local high-intensity predation events in food web models.
23501467|Riparian zones in boreal areas such as humid landscapes on minerogenic soils are characterized by diverse, productive, and dynamic vegetation which will rapidly react to climate change. Climate-change models predict that in most parts of the boreal region these zones will be affected by various combinations of increased temperature, less seasonal variation in runoff, increased average discharge, changes in groundwater supply, and a more dynamic ice regime. Increasing temperatures will favor invasion of exotic species whereas species losses are likely to be minor. The hydrologic changes will cause a narrowing of the riparian zone and, therefore, locally reduce species richness whereas effects on primary production are more difficult to predict. More shifts between freezing and thawing during winter will lead to increased dynamics of ice formation and ice disturbance, potentially fostering a more dynamic and species-rich riparian vegetation. Restoration measures that increase water retention and shade, and that reduce habitats for exotic plant species adjacent to rivers can be applied especially in streams and rivers that have been channelized or deprived of their riparian forest to reduce the effects of climate change on riparian ecosystems.
41505903|Soil mineral weathering may serve as a sink for atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO). Increased weathering of soil minerals induced by elevated CO concentration has been reported previously in temperate areas. However, this has not been well documented for the tropics and subtropics. We used model forest ecosystems in open-top chambers to study the effects of CO enrichment alone and together with nitrogen (N) addition on inorganic carbon (C) losses in the leachates. Three years of exposure to an atmospheric CO concentration of 700 ppm resulted in increased annual inorganic C export through leaching below the 70 cm soil profile. Compared to the control without any CO and N treatments, net biocarbonate C (HCO-C) loss increased by 42%, 74%, and 81% in the high CO concentration treatment in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively. Increased inorganic C export following the exposure to the elevated CO was related to both increased inorganic C concentrations in the leaching water and the greater amount of leaching water. Net annual inorganic C (HCO-C and carbonate C: CO-C) loss via the leaching water in the high CO concentration chambers reached 48.0, 49.5, and 114.0 kg ha y in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively, compared with 33.8, 28.4, and 62.8 kg ha y in the control chambers in the corresponding years. The N addition showed a negative effect on the mineral weathering. The decreased inorganic C concentration in the leaching water and the decreased leaching water amount induced by the high N treatment were the results of the adverse effect. Our results suggest that tropical forest soil systems may be able to compensate for a small part of the atmospheric CO increase through the accelerated processing of CO into HCO-C during soil mineral weathering, which might be transported in part into ground water or oceans on geological timescales.
27823723|In studies of biodiversity, considerations of scale the spatial or temporal domain to which data provide inferenceare important because of the non-arithmetic manner in which species richness increases with area (and total abundance) and because fine-scale mechanisms (for example, recruitment, growth, and mortality of species) can interact with broad scale patterns (for example, habitat patch configuration) to influence dynamics in space and time. The key to understanding these dynamics is to consider patterns of environmental heterogeneity, including patterns produced by natural and anthropogenic disturbance. We studied how spatial variation in three aspects of biodiversity of terrestrial gastropods (species richness, species diversity, and nestedness) on the 16-ha Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot (LFDP) in a tropical forest of Puerto Rico was affected by disturbance caused by Hurricanes Hugo and Georges, as well as by patterns of historic land use. Hurricane-induced changes in spatial organization of species richness differed from those for species diversity. The gamma components of species richness changed after the hurricanes and were significantly different between Hurricanes Hugo and Georges. Alpha and two beta components of species richness, one related to turnover among sites within areas of similar land use and one related to variation among areas of different land use, varied randomly over time after both hurricanes. In contrast, gamma components of species diversity decreased in Indistinguishable manners after both hurricanes, whereas the rates of change in the alpha component of species diversity differed between hurricanes. Beta components of diversity related to turnover among sites declined after both hurricanes in a consistent fashion. Those related to turnover amng areas with different historic land uses varied stochastically. The immediate effect of hurricanes was to reduce nestedness of gastropod assemblages. Thereafter, nestedness increased during post-hurricane secondary succession, and did so in the same way, regardless of patterns of historic land use. The rates of change in degree of nestedness during secondary succession were different after each hurricane as a result of differences in the severity and extent of the hurricane-induced damage. Our analyses quantified tempral changes in the spatial organization of biodiversity of gastropod assemblages during forest recovery from hurricane-induced damage in areas that had experienced different patterns of historic human land use, and documented the dependence of biodiversity on spatial scale. We hypothesize that cross-scale interactions, likely those between the local demographics of species at the fine scale and the landscape configuration of patches at the broad scale, play a dominant role in affecting critical transfer processes, such as dispersal, and its interrelationship with aspects of biodiversity. Cross-scale interactions have significant implications for the conservation of biodiversity, as the greatest threats to biodiversity arise from habitat modification and fragmentation associated with disturbance arising from human activities.
40603652|There is growing evidence from different sources that prolonged high N deposition causes a shift from nitrogen (N.) limitation to nitrogen and phosphorus (P) co-limitation or even P limitation in many terrestrial ecosystems. However, the number of ecosystems where the type of limitation has been directly tested by longer-term full-factorial field experiments is very limited. We conducted a 5-year fertilization experiment with N and P in the Lneburger Heide (NW Germany) to test the hypothesis that, following decades of elevated atmospheric N inputs, plant growth in dry lowland heaths may have shifted from N to N-P co-limitation or P limitation. We also tested whether the plant tissue N: P ratio reflects the type of nutrient limitation in a continental lowland heathland. Experimental plots dominated by Calluna vulgaris received regular additions of N (50 kg N ha y), P (20 kg P ha y), a combination of both, or water only (control) from 2004 to 2008. Over the whole study period, a highly significant positive N effect on shoot length was found, thus indicating N limitation. We conclude that a clear shift from N limitation to N-P co-limitation or  limitation has not yet occurred. Tissue N: P ratios showed a high temporal variability and no relationship between tissue N:P ratio and the shoot length response of Calluna to nutrient addition was found. The N:P tool is thus of limited use at the local scale and within the range of N:P ratio observed in this study, and should only be used as a rough indicator for the prediction of the type of nutrient limitation in lowland heathland on a larger geographical scale with a broader interval of N:P ratio.
3659008|Plant growth in boreal forests is generally considered to be predominantly nitrogen (N) limited, but forested groundwater discharge areas may be exceptions. In this study, we conducted tests to determine whether highly productive forested groundwater discharge areas generally differ from adjacent groundwater recharge areas in terms of humus chemistry and the availability of phosphorus (P) and N to plants. We investigated six forested sites, divided into groundwater discharge and adjacent groundwater recharge areas, in northern Sweden. The humus layers of the forested groundwater discharge areas were clearly distinguished from the adjacent groundwater recharge areas by having higher acid-digestible calcium (Ca) and/or aluminium (Al) and iron (Fe) content and higher organic P and N content. Soil solution inorganic N ( NH
41505910|In disturbance-prone ecosystems, organisms often persist in spatial refugia during stressful periods. A clear example is the colonization of abandoned river channels by pioneer riparian trees. Here, we examine the prominence of this establishment pathway for a foundation tree species (Fremont cottonwood, Populus fremontii) within the riparian corridor of a large river, the Sacramento River in central California. We quantified the total proportion of forest that initiated as a result of channel abandonment for a 160-km reach, analyzed concurrent patterns of tree establishment with floodplain accretion and sedimentation history, and developed a conceptual model of biogeomorphic evolution of abandoned channels. Historical air photo analysis indicated that stands associated with abandoned channels comprised more than 50% of the total extant cottonwood forest area. Tree-ring evidence showed that cottonwood stands commonly developed immediately following abandonment, and the recruitment window ranged from 4 to 40 years, but was less than 10 years at most sites. Rates of floodplain rise and fine sediment accumulation were high in young sites and decreased logarithmically over time. Together, these results suggest that abandoned channels are an important refuge for cottonwood recruitment, that the greatest opportunity for colonization occurs within a short period after the cutoff event, and that sedimentation processes influence the duration of the colonization window. On rivers where tree recruitment along the active channel is severely limited by hydrologic regulation and/or land management, abandoned channel refugia may play an even more important role in sustaining an ecologically functional riparian corridor. Preserving bank erosion, active meander corridors and forest regeneration zones created by cutoff events are therefore key conservation measures on shifting rivers.
27823663|Climatic variation affects the physical and biological components of ecosystems, and global-climate models predict enhanced sensitivity in polar regions, raising concern for Antarctic animal populations that may show direct responses to changes in sea-ice distribution and extent, or indirect responses to changes in prey distribution and abundance. Here, we show that over a 30-year period in the Ross Sea, average weaning masses of Weddell seals, Leptonychotes weddellii, varied strongly among years and were correlated to large-scale climatic and oceanographic variations. Foraging success of pregnant seals (reflected by weaning mass the following pupping season) increased during summers characterized by reduced sea-ice cover and positive phases of the southern oscillation. These results demonstrate a correlation between environmental variation and an important life history characteristic (weaning mass) of an Antarctic marine mammal. Understanding the mechanisms that link climatic variation and animal life history characteristics will contribute to understanding both population dynamics and global climatic processes. For the world's most southerly distributed mammal species, the projected trend of increasing global climate change raises concern because increasing sea-ice trends in the Ross Sea sector of Antarctica will likely reduce populations due to reduced access to prey as expressed through declines in body condition and reproductive performance.
3659012|Floodplain forest ecosystems are highly valuable to society because of their potential for water quality improvement and vegetation productivity, among many other functions. Previous studies have indicated that hydrology influences productivity but that the relationship between hydroperiod and productivity is a complex one. Consequently, we compared multiple indexes of productivity, nutrient circulation, and hydroperiod among three communities on the Flint River floodplain, Georgia, that differed in terms of inundation frequency. We hypothesized that (a) the wettest community would have the lowest total net primary production (NPP) values because of saturated soil conditions; (b) as wetness increases, nutrient circulation in litterfall would decrease because of the hypothesized lower productivity in the wetter community; and (c) as wetness increases, internal translocation would become more efficient. The study site was partitioned into three wetness types-somewhat poorly drained (SPD), intermediate (I) and poorly drained (PD). We found that belowground biomass was greatest on the SPD, litterfall was similar for all three sites, and that woody biomass current annual increment (CAI) was greatest in the PD community. However, when the three variables were totaled for each site, the PD had the greatest NPP, thus disproving hypothesis (a). For hypothesis (b), we observed that P content in litterfall, although not significant, followed the predicted trend; nitrogen (N) content displayed the opposite pattern (PD > I > SPD). As wetness increased, internal translocation became more efficient for phosphorus (support for hypothesis [c]), but the SPD community was more efficient at retranslocating N (contradiction of hypothesis [c]).
3658956|Land management practices such as no-tillage agriculture and tallgrass prairie restoration have been proposed as a possible means to sequester atmospheric carbon, helping to refurbish soil fertility and replenish organic matter lost as a result of previous agricultural management practices. However, the relationship between land-use changes and ecosystem structure and functioning is not yet understood. We studied soil and vegetation properties over a 4-year period (1995-98), and assembled measurements of microbial biomass, soil organic carbon (SOC) and nitrogen (N), N-mineralization, soil surface carbon dioxide ( CO
3658782|Economists and ecologists are often asked to collaborate on landscape-level analyses designed to jointly assess economic and ecological conditions resulting from environmental policy scenarios. This trend toward multidisciplinary projects, coupled with the growing use of geographic information systems, has led to the development of spatially explicit models that can be used to examine and project land-use change. Although spatial land-use models are still evolving, most published efforts have modeled the conversion of nonurban land to urban uses as a function of explanatory variables based on population density and the spatial proximity of land to roads, markets, and population centers. In this paper, we use a gravity model to describe the urbanization potential of forest and agricultural land as a combination of population and proximity. We develop an empirical model that describes the probability that forests and agricultural land in western Oregon and western Washington were transformed to residential, commercial, or industrial uses over a 30-year period as a function of urbanization potential, other socioeconomic factors, and geographic and physical land characteristics. Land-use data were provided by the USDA Forest Service's Forest Inventory and Analysis program. We use this empirical model to generate geographic information system maps depicting the probability of future land-use change that can be integrated with landscape-level ecological models developed for western Oregon's Coast Range.
3658690|We contrast the geochemistry of the Madison drainage, which has high concentrations of geothermal features, with the Lamar drainage of Yellowstone National Park, USA, and trace the consequences of geochemical differences through abiotic and biotic linkages in the ecosystem. Waters in the geothermal-dominated drainage contained anomalously high levels of fluoride (F) and silica ( SiO
40296355|Thorough understanding of the potential for threshold dynamics and catastrophic shifts to occur in natural systems is of great importance for ecosystem conservation and restoration. However, verifying the presence of alternative stable states, one of the theoretical explanations for sudden shifts in natural systems, has proven to be a major challenge. We examine processes on local and landscape scales in salt-marsh pioneer zones, to assess the presence of alternative stable states in this system. To that end, we investigated the presence of typical characteristics of alternative stable states: bimodality and threshold dynamics. We also studied whether vegetation patches remained stable over long time periods. Analysis of false-color aerial photographs revealed clear bimodality in plant biomass distribution. By transplanting Spartina anglica plants of three different biomass classes on three geographically different marshes, we showed that a biomass threshold limits the establishment of Spartina patches, potentially explaining their patchy distribution. The presence of bimodality and biomass thresholds points to the presence of alternative stable states and the potential for sudden shifts, at small, within-patch scales and on short time scales. However, overlay analysis of aerial photographs from a salt marsh in The Netherlands, covering a time span of 22 years, revealed that there was little long-term stability of patches, as vegetation cover in this area is slowly increasing. Our results suggest that the concept of alternative stable states is applicable to the salt-marsh pioneer vegetation on small spatio-temporal scales. However, the concept does not apply to long-term dynamics of decades or centuries of heterogeneous salt-marsh pioneer zones, as landscape-scale processes may determine the large-scale dynamics of salt marshes. Hence, our results provide the interesting perspective that threshold dynamics may occur in systems with, on the long term, only a single stable state.
27823693|Proper assessment of ecological data must consider uncertainty. However, reported estimation of uncertainty in calculated values of nutrient spiraling indices is rare. Interpretations based on single values of spiraling indices, may therefore be unwittingly flawed. We investigated the sources of analytical uncertainty in the nutrient concentrations used to calculate two spiraling indices, uptake length (Sw) and uptake velocity (Vf), and used Monte Carlo Simulation (MCS) to estimate the resultant uncertainty in index values. We also examined the effect of the level of nutrient enrichment on the magnitude of index uncertainty. Outcomes under high and low nutrient uptake capacity were compared by performing nutrient addition experiments in two streams with contrasting ambient nutrient concentrations. We found that small differences (or uncertainties) in the average plateau nutrient concentration resulted in large uncertainties in spiraling indices. The uncertainty resulted from a combination of small differences in nutrient concentrations between upstream and downstream stations (particularly for the low uptake case), the low nutrient concentration added into the stream, and the sample matrix and storage. The stream with low nutrient uptake capacity had larger relative uncertainties in Sw than when the nutrient uptake capacity was high. The presence of such errors demands that Sw and Vf values should be reported with uncertainty, rather than the normal practice of a single calculated value.
27823735|The large accumulation of organic matter in peatlands is primarily caused by slow rates of litter decomposition. We determined rates of decomposition of major peat-forming litters of vascular plants and mosses at five sites: a poor fen in New Hampshire and a bog hummock, a poor fen, a beaver pond margin and a beaver pond in Ontario. We used the litterbag technique, retrieving triplicate litterbags six or seven times over 35 years, and found that simple exponential decay and continuous-quality non-linear regression models could adequately characterize the decomposition in most cases. Within each site, the rate of decomposition at the surface was generally Typha latifolia leaves = Chamaedaphne calyculata leaves = Carex leaves > Chamaedaphne calyculata stems > hummock Sphagnum = lawn/hollow Sphagnum, with exponential decay constant (k) values generally ranging from 0.05 to 0.37 and continuous-quality model initial quality (q0) values ranging from 1.0 (arbitrarily set for Typha leaves) to 0.7 (Sphagnum). In general, surface decay rates were slowest at the bog hummock site, which had the lowest water table, and in the beaver pond, which was inundated, and fastest at the fens. The continuous-quality model site decomposition parameter (u0) ranged from 0.80 to 0.17. Analysis of original litter samples for carbon, nitrogen and proximate fractions revealed a relatively poor explanation of decomposition rates, as defined by k and q0, compared to most well-drained ecosystems. Three litters, roots of sedge and a shrub and Typha leaves, were placed at depths of 10, 30 and 60 cm at the sites. Decomposition rates decreased with depth at each site, with k means of 0.15, 0.08 and 0.05 y1 at 10, 30 and 60 cm, respectively, and u0 of 0.25, 0.13 and 0.07. These differences are primarily related to the position of the water table at each site and to a lesser extent the cooler temperatures in the lower layers of the peat. The distinction between bog and fen was less important than the position of the water table. These results show that we can characterize decomposition rates of surface litter in northern peatlands, but given the large primary productivity below-ground in these ecosystems, and the differential rates of decomposition with depth, subsurface input and decomposition of organic matter is an important and relatively uncertain attribute.
3659005| We used a 10-year record (1990-99) of composited and cloud-screened reflectances from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) to test for phenological differences between urban and rural areas in the eastern United States deciduous broadleaf forest (DBF). We hypothesized that well-documented urban heat island effects would be associated with alterations in temperature-sensitive vegetation phenology. Our objectives were thus (a) to investigate possible differences in the start of the growing season (SOS) and end of the growing season (EOS) between the urban and DBF land covers, (b) to investigate related differences in greenness amplitude and fractional cover, and (c) to develop a generalized additive model (GAM) to predict the spatial variation of observed differences. By analyzing individual 1 latitude by 1 longitude blocks, we found that, on average, urbanization is associated with a growing season expansion of 7.6 days. Most of this effect is caused by an earlier SOS in urban areas. In all cases, urban regions had lower fractional cover and greenness amplitude. The GAM model failed to produce a viable model for differences in EOS, probably because it is dominated by photoperiod controls with only a minor temperature impact. SOS differences were predicted with an accuracy of about 2.4 days, with a GAM consisting of smoothed functions of mean annual average temperature, urban fractional cover, and the urban vs DBF greenness amplitude difference. We speculate that evidence of a phenological response to warming indicates that global warming, without reduction in DBF vegetation cover and greenness amplitude, may increase carbon sequestration in mesic deciduous forests. 
3658609|Soil nutrient pools and nitrogen dynamics in old-growth forests were compared with selectively logged stands and stands that were selectively logged and then burned approximately 100 years ago to test the hypothesis that land-use history exerts persistent controls on nutrient capital and nitrogen (N) transformation rates. We provide estimates of net N mineralization and nitrification rates for old-growth forests from the northeastern United States, a region in which few old-growth forests remain and for which few published accounts of mineralization rates exist. At the plot level, no effects of the dominant tree species were observed on any measured soil properties or N-cycling rates. Effects of alternate disturbance histories were detected in soil carbon (C) and N pools. Old-growth forest soils had higher total C
27823762|Although field studies have demonstrated an ecosystem-specific effect of experimental atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition on litter decomposition, a mechanistic understanding of how ligninolytic microbial communities respond to atmospheric deposition is lacking. Because high levels of inorganic N suppress lignin decomposition by some basidiomycetes, it is plausible that the abundance and activity of these key microorganisms underlies differential ecosystem responses of decomposition to atmospheric N deposition. We hypothesize that: (a) atmospheric N deposition will cause an ecosystem-specific reduction in basidiomycete activity and abundance with greatest decreases in ecosystems with lignin-rich forest litter and (b) the abundance of lignin degrading basidiomycetes will be positively correlated with ligninolytic enzyme activity. To test these hypotheses, we measured the effects of experimental N deposition on the potential activity of phenol oxidase enzymes, and the abundance of basidiomycete genes encoding laccase, a primary phenol oxidase enzyme, in three hardwood forests spanning a range of leaf litter lignin content. The black oak-white oak (BOWO) contains high lignin litter, the sugar maple-basswood (SMBW) has low lignin litter, and the sugar maple-red oak (SMRO) is intermediate. An ecosystem by N deposition interaction significantly influenced phenol oxidase activity in the surface soil (P = 0.05), where phenol oxidase activity decreased with increasing experimental N deposition in the BOWO ecosystem. No consistent response to N deposition was evident for surface soil phenol oxidase activity within either the SMRO or SMBW ecosystem. This interaction did not influence laccase gene abundance. Instead, basidiomycete laccase gene abundance was reduced by experimental N deposition (main effect) in surface soil. There was only a weak correlation between basidiomycete laccase gene abundance and potential phenol oxidase enzyme activity, suggesting that the abundance of organisms possessing laccase genes may not control phenol oxidase activity in soil. Our results suggest that the regulation of laccase gene expression may mediate the decomposition response to atmospheric N deposition.
3658926|Many high-elevation lakes in designated wilderness are stocked with native and nonnative fish by state fish and game agencies to provide recreational fishing opportunities. In several areas, this practice has become controversial with state wildlife managers who support historical recreational use of wilderness, federal wilderness managers who assert that stocking compromises some of the ecological and social values of wilderness, and different public groups that support one or the other position. Herein we examine this controversy from the perspective of the 1964 Wilderness Act, its judicial interpretation, the policies of the federal agencies, and formal agreements between federal and state agencies. Although some state stocking programs restore native fish populations, other programs may compromise some of the ecological and social values of wilderness areas. Further, although current federal regulations recognize state authority for fish stocking, judicial interpretation gives federal agencies the authority for direct involvement in decisions regarding fish stocking in wilderness. Where there are differences of opinion between state and federal managers, this judicial interpretation strongly points to the need for improved cooperation, communication, and coordination between state wildlife managers and federal wilderness managers to balance recreational fishing opportunities and other wildlife management activities with wilderness values.
25622874|Resilience theory suggests that ecosystems can persist for long periods, before changing rapidly to a new vegetation phase. Transition between phases occurs when ecological thresholds have been crossed, and is followed by a reorganization of biotic and environmental interactions, leading to the emergence of a new vegetation phase or quasi-stable state. Savannas are dynamic, complex systems in which fire, herbivory, water and nutrient availability interact to determine tree abundance. Phase and transition has been observed in savannas, but the role of these different possible drivers is not always clear. In this study, our objectives were to identify phase and transition in the fossil pollen record, and then to explore the role of nitrogen and fire in these transitions using N isotopes and charcoal abundance. We present palaeoenvironmental data from the Kruger National Park, South Africa, which show transition between grassland and savanna phases. Our results show transition at the end of the ninth century A.D. from a nutrient- and herbivore-limited grazing lawn, in which fire was absent and C grasses were the dominant and competitively superior plant form, to a water-, fire- and herbivory-limited semi-arid savanna, in which C grasses and C trees and shrubs co-existed. The data accord with theoretical frameworks that predict that variability in ecosystems clusters in regions of higher probability space, interspersed by rapid transitions between these phases. The data are also consistent with the idea that phase transitions involve switching between different dominant driving processes or limiting factors.
3658762| The effects of major reductions in organic matter, total phosphorus (TP), and total nitrogen (TN) loading on the chemical environment, trophic structure, and dynamics of the hypertrophic, shallow Lake Sbygrd were followed for 18 years. After the reduction in organic matter loading in 1976, the lake initially shifted from a summer clear-water state, most likely reflecting high grazing pressure by large Daphnia species, to a turbid state with extremely high summer mean chlorophyll a (up to
3658899|Nitrogen (N) inputs to many terrestrial ecosystems are increasing, and most of these inputs are sequestered in soil organic matter within 1-3 years. Rapid (minutes to days) immobilization focused previous N retention research on actively cycling plant, microbial, and inorganic N pools. However, most ecosystem N resides in soil organic matter that is not rapidly cycled. This large, stable soil N pool may be an important sink for elevated N inputs. In this study, we measured the capacity of grassland soils to retain
23253695|Global patterns in soil, plant, and fungal stable isotopes of N ( 15 N) show promise as integrated metrics of N cycling, particularly the activity of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi. At small spatial scales, however, it remains difficult to differentiate the underlying causes of plant  15 N variability and this limits the application of such measurements to better understand N cycling. We conducted a landscape-scale analysis of  15 N values from 31 putatively N-limited monospecific black spruce (Picea mariana) stands in central Alaska to assess the two main hypothesized sources of plant  15 N variation: differing sources and ECM fractionation. We found roughly 20% of the variability in black spruce foliar N and  15 N values to be correlated with the concentration and  15 N values of soil NH 4 + and dissolved organic N (DON) pools, respectively. However, 15 N-based mixing models from 24 of the stands suggested that fractionation by ECM fungi obscures the 15 N signature of soil N pools. Models, regressions, and N abundance data all suggested that increasing dependence on soil DON to meet black spruce growth demands predicates increasing reliance on ECM-derived N and that black spruce, on average, received 53% of its N from ECM fungi. Future research should partition the  15 N values within the soil DON pool to determine how choice of soil  15 N values influence modeled ECM activity. The C balance of boreal forests is tightly linked to N cycling and  15 N values may be useful metrics of changes to these connections.
3658814| We investigated the effects of removing near-stream Rhododendron and of the natural blowdown of canopy trees on nutrient export to streams in the southern Appalachians. Transects were instrumented on adjacent hillslopes in a first-order watershed at the Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory (3503N, 8325W). Dissolved organic carbon (DOC), K
3658756|The aim of this review is to identify problems, find general patterns, and extract recommendations for successful biomanipulation. An important conclusion is that the pelagic food chain from fish to algae may not be the only process affected by a biomanipulation. Instead, this process should be viewed as the "trigger" for secondary processes, such as establishment of submerged macrophytes, reduced internal loading of nutrients, and reduced resuspension of particles from the sediment. However, fish reduction also leads to a high recruitment of young-of-the-year (YOY) fish, which feed extensively on zooplankton. This expansion of YOY the first years after fish reduction is probably a major reason for less successful biomanipulations. Recent, large-scale biomanipulations have made it possible to update earlier recommendations regarding when, where, and how biomanipulation should be performed. More applicable recommendations include (1) the reduction in the biomass of planktivorous fish should be 75% or more; (2) the fish reduction should be performed efficiently and rapidly (within 1-3 years); (3) efforts should be made to reduce the number of benthic feeding fish; (4) the recruitment of YOY fish should be reduced; (5) the conditions for establishment of submerged macrophytes should be improved; and (6) the external input of nutrients (phosphorus and nitrogen) should be reduced as much as possible before the biomanipulation. Recent biomanipulations have shown that, correctly performed, the method also achieves results in large, relatively deep and eutrophic lakes, at least in a 5-year perspective. Although repeated measures may be necessary, the general conclusion is that biomanipulation is not only possible, but also a relatively inexpensive and attractive method for management of eutrophic lakes, and in particular as a follow-up measure to reduced nutrient load.
3658610|Soil microorganisms play an important role in the mobilization of phosphorus (P), and these activities may be beneficial for plant P utilization. We investigated the effects on microbial P availability of different combinations of aluminum and iron (Al + Fe) concentrations and different P pools in humus soils from boreal forest ecosystems. We measured respiration rates in laboratory incubations before and after additions of glucose plus ( NH
25622896|The quantitative mapping of food we flows based on empirical data is a crucial yet difficult task in ecology. The difficulty arises from the under-sampling of food webs, because most data sets are incomplete and uncertain. In this article, we review methods to quantify food web flows based on empirical data using linear inverse models (LIM). The food web in a LIM is described as a linear function of its flows, which are estimated from empirical data by inverse modeling. The under-sampling of food webs implies that infinitely many different solutions exist that are consistent with a given data set. The existing approaches to food web LIM select a single solution from this infinite set by invoking additional assumptions: either a specific selection criterion that has no solid ecological basis is used or the data set is artificially upgraded by assigning fixed values to, for example, physiological parameters. Here, we advance a likelihood approach (LA) that follows a different solution philosophy. Rather than singling out one particular solution, the LA generates a large set of possible solutions from which the marginal probability density function (mPDF) of each flow and correlations between flows can be derived. The LA is exemplified with an example model of a soil food web and is made available in the open-source R-software. Moreover, we show how stoichiometric data, stable isotope signatures, and fatty acid compositions can be included in the LIM to alleviate the under-sampling problem. Overall, LIM prove to be a powerful tool in food web research, which can bridge the gap between empirical data and the analysis of food web structures.
40603631|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is an important component of aquatic food webs. We compare the uptake kinetics for NH-N and different fractions of DOM during soil and salmon leachate additions by evaluating the uptake of organic forms of carbon (DOC) and nitrogen (DON), and proteinaceous DOM, as measured by parallel factor (PARAFAC) modeling of DOM fluorescence. Seasonal DOM slug additions were conducted in three headwater streams draining a bog, forested wetland, and upland forest using DOM collected by leaching watershed soils. We also used DOM collected from bog soil and salmon carcasses to perform additions in the upland forest stream. DOC uptake velocity ranged from 0.010 to 0.063 mm s and DON uptake velocity ranged from 0.015 to 0.086 mm s which provides evidence for the whole-stream uptake of allochthonous DOM. These findings imply that wetlands could potentially be an important source of DOM to support stream heterotrophic production. There was no significant difference in the uptake of DOC and DON across the soil leachate additions (P > 0.05), although differential uptake of DOM fractions was observed as protein-like fluorescence was removed from the water column more efficiently than bulk DOC and DON (P < 0.05). Moreover, PARAFAC analysis of DOM fluorescence showed that proteinlike fluorescence decreased downstream during all DOM additions, whereas humic-like fluorescence did not change. This differential processing in added DOM suggests slow and fast turnover pools exist for aquatic DOM. Taken together, our findings argue that DON could potentially fill a larger role in satisfying biotic N demand in oligotrophic headwater streams than previously thought.
25053824|The FLooded Upland Dynamics Experiment (FLUDEX) at the Experimental Lakes Area (ELA) in northwest Ontario was designed to test the hypothesis that methylmercury (MeHg) production in reservoirs is related to the amount, and subsequent decomposition, of flooded organic matter. Three upland forest sites that varied in the amounts of organic carbon stored in vegetation and soils (Low C, 30,870 kg C
40603429|We assessed the ecological value of golf courses based on a quantitative synthesis of studies in the scientific literature that have measured and compared biota on golf courses to that of biota in greenarea habitats related to other land uses. We found that golf courses had higher ecological value in 64% of comparative cases. This pattern was consistent also for comparisons based on measures of species richness, as well as for comparisons of overall measures of birds and insectsthe fauna groups most widely examined in the studies. Many golf courses also contribute to the preservation of fauna of conservation concern. More broadly, we found that the ecological value of golf courses significantly decreases with land types having low levels of anthropogenic impact, like natural and nature-protected areas. Conversely, the value of golf courses significantly increases with land that has high levels of anthropogenic impact, like agricultural and urban lands. From an ecosystem management perspective, golf courses represent a promising measure for restoring and enhancing biodiversity in ecologically simplified landscapes. Furthermore, the review suggests that golf courses hold a real potential to be designed and managed to promote critical ecosystem services, like pollination and natural pest control, providing an opportunity for joint collaboration among conservation, restoration and recreational interests.
25622890|Knowledge of how ecosystem carbon (C) processes respond to variations in precipitation is crucial for assessing impacts of climate change on terrestrial ecosystems. In this study, we examined variations of shoot and root biomass, standing and surface litter, soil respiration, and soil C content along a natural precipitation gradient from 430 to 1200 mm in the southern Great Plains, USA. Our results show that shoot biomass and soil respiration increased linearly with mean annual precipitation (MAP), whereas root biomass and soil C content remained relatively constant along the precipitation gradient. Consequently, the root/shoot ratio linearly decreased with MAP. However, patterns of standing, surface, and total litter mass followed quadratic relationships with MAP along the gradient, likely resulting from counterbalance between litter production and decomposition. Those linear/quadratic equations describing variations of eco-system C processes with precipitation could be useful for model development, parameterization, and validation at landscape and regional scales to improve predictions of C dynamics in grasslands in response to climate change. Our results indicated that precipitation is an important driver in shaping ecosystem functioning as reflected in vegetation production, litter mass, and soil respiration in grassland ecosystems.
3658997| We examined changes in coral assemblages in four back-reef locations across the warm 1998 E1 Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) event based on annually collected line-transect data from 3 years before and after this event. The physical locations of the reefs differed such that there was a 120%-275% warm-season range in the SDs of seawater temperatures but only minor differences in mean temperatures, based on 2 non-ENSO years. We tested the predictions that (a) rare warm-water events would produce fewer changes in eurythermal than stenothermal coral assemblages; and (b) after the disturbance, the stenothermal assemblages would more closely resemble the eurythermal ones. The 1998 event produced fewer changes in coral cover and community similarity among the assemblages in the reefs with high variation in temperature than in those with low variation in temperature. Despite the initially lower taxonomic richness in the eurythermal assemblage, there was an additional loss of taxonomic richness in the high and none in the stenothermal reefs. There was some evidence for taxonomic convergence, of the stenothermal towards the eurythermal reefs and a general loss of some of the branching taxa, such as branching Porites, Pavona, and Stylophora, and a relative increase in massive Porites and Favia. There was, however, moderate site specificity that did not produce true convergence. The eurythermal assemblages maintained the basic community structure but lost taxonomic richness, whereas the opposite was true for the stenothermal assemblages. 
3658594|We compared simulated time series of nitrogen-15 (
40296283|We integrated soil models with an established ecosystem process model (SIPNET, simplified photosynthesis and evapotranspiration model) to investigate the influence of soil processes on modelled values of soil CO fluxes (Rsoil). Model parameters were determined from literature values and a data assimilation routine that used a 7-year record of the net ecosystem exchange of CO  and environmental variables collected at a high-elevation subalpine forest (the Niwot Ridge AmeriFlux site). These soil models were subsequently evaluated in how they estimated the seasonal contribution of Rsoil to total ecosystem respiration (TER) and the seasonal contribution of root respiration (RRoot) to Rsoil-Additionally, these soil models were compared to data assimilation output of linear models of soil heterotrophic respiration. Explicit modelling of root dynamics led to better agreement with literature values of the contribution of RSoil to TER. Estimates of RSoil/TER when root dynamics were considered ranged from 0.3 to 0.6; without modelling root biomass dynamics these values were 0.1-0.3. Hence, we conclude that modelling of root biomass dynamics is critically important to model the RSoil/TER ratio correctly. When soil heterotrophic respiration was dependent on linear functions of temperature and moisture independent of soil carbon pool size, worse model-data fits were produced. Adding additional complexity to the soil pool marginally improved the model-data fit from the base model, but issues remained. The soil models were not successful in modelling RRoot/RSoil. This is partially attributable to estimated turnover parameters of soil carbon pools not agreeing with expected values from literature and being poorly constrained by the parameter estimation routine. We conclude that net ecosystem exchange of CO alone cannot constrain specific rhizospheric and microbial components of soil respiration. Reasons for this include inability of the data assimilation routine to constrain soil parameters using ecosystem CO flux measurements and not considering the effect of other resource limitations (for example, nitrogen) on the microbe biomass. Future data assimilation studies with these models should include ecosystem-scale measurements of Rsoil in the parameter estimation routine and experimentally determine soil model parameters not constrained by the parameter estimation routine.
3658691| Accurate characterization of leaf area index (LAI) is required to quantify the exchange of energy, water, and carbon between terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere. The objective of this study was to use a cyclic sampling design to compare the spatial patterns of LAI of the dominant terrestrial ecosystems that comprised the area around the 447-m WLEF television tower, equipped with an eddy flux system, near Park Falls, Wisconsin, USA. A second objective was to compare the efficiency of cyclic, random, and uniform sampling designs in terms of the precision of spatial information derived per unit sampling effort. The vegetation surrounding the tower was comprised (more than 80%) of four major forest cover types: forested wetlands, upland aspen forests, upland northern hardwood forests, and upland pine forests, and a fifth, nonforested cover type, grass (open meadow). LAI differed significantly among the five cover types and averaged 3.45, 3.57, 3.82, 3.99, and 1.14 for northern hardwoods, aspen, forested wetlands, upland conifers, and grass, respectively. The cyclic sampling design maximized information about the variance of vegetation characteristics of the heterogeneous landscape and decreased by 60% the number of plots needed to obtain the same confidence interval width using a random sampling design. The range of spatial autocorrelation for LAI was 147 m, but it was decreased to 117 m when vegetation cover was included as a covariate. The cyclic sampling design has several important advantages over other sampling designs. The cyclic sampling design increased the sampling efficiency by optimizing the placement of plots so they were distributed more efficiently for geostatistical analyses such as semi-variograms, correlograms, and spatial regression and can incorporate covariates (for example, vegetation cover, soil properties, and so on) that may explain the sources of spatial patterns. The cyclic sampling design was used to derive a spatial map of LAI and the average LAI for the 3  2 km area centered on the flux tower was 3.51  0.89 (with a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 6.35). Airborne and satellite reflectance data have also been used to characterize LAI, but in this region, and many other forests of the world, remotely sensed vegetation indexes saturate in forests with an LAI greater than 3-5. The cyclic sampling design also provides a general ecological sampling approach that can be used at multiple scales. 
3658987|The carbon budget of the Wind River old-growth forest is being addressed from a variety of perspectives and with a range of approaches. The goal of this comprehensive analysis is developing a thorough, general, and validated understanding of the carbon balance, as well as the processes controlling it. The initial results from studies addressing annual carbon (C) balance with ground-based methods, eddy flux, leaf-based models, and ecosystem models are consistent in some, but not all, respects. Net primary production is
27823688|The aim of this study was to characterize the short-term land-cover change processes that were detected in Eastern Africa, based on a set of change metrics that allow for the quantification of interannual changes in vegetation productivity, changes in vegetation phenology and a combination of both. We tested to what extent land use, fire activity and livestock grazing modified the vegetation response to short-term rainfall variability in East Africa and how this is reflected in change metrics derived from MODerate Imaging Spectrometer (MODIS) time series of remote sensing data. We used a hierarchical approach to disentangle the contribution of human activities and climate variability to the patterns of short-term vegetation change in East Africa at different levels of organization. Our results clearly show that land use significantly influences the vegetation response to rainfall variability as measured by time series of MODIS data. Areas with different types of land use react in a different way to interannual climate variability, leading to different values of the change indices depending on the land use type. The impact of land use is more reflected in interannual variability of vegetation productivity and overall change in the vegetation, whereas changes in phenology are mainly driven by climate variability and affect most vegetation types in similar ways. Our multilevel approach led to improved models and clearly demonstrated that climate influence plays at a different scale than land use, fire and herbivore grazing. It helped us to understand dynamics within and between biomes in the study area and investigate the relative importance of different factors influencing short-term variability in change indices at different scales.
40296349|Peatland ground layer species composition is intricately tied to ecosystem function (for example, carbon storage). As the primary disturbance in boreal bogs, wildfire selectively removes the ground layer vegetation, creating heterogeneous habitat conditions and initiating succession. However, the successional trajectory of the ground layer community following fire is poorly understood. Here we assess spatial and temporal changes in community composition along a chronosequence of post-fire bogs (1105 years since fire) in north central Alberta, Canada. We established vegetation plots in 13 bogs and repeatedly monitored them from 20032006. We found three phases of the post-fire bog community, grading from pioneer true moss (for example, Polytrichum strictum) dominance soon post-fire ( < 10 ysf) to persistent Sphagnum dominance in mature sites (2080 ysf) with partial replacement by feathermosses (for example, Pleurozium schreberi) in older bogs ( > 80 ysf). Mature bogs dominated by Sphagnum fuscum had the greatest species richness, although species evenness was low. Spatial heterogeneity of ground layer community composition was bimodal, peaking approximately 10 ysf (co-occurrence of true mosses and Sphagnum) and more than 80 ysf when feathermosses encroach and break-up Sphagnum dominance, resulting in inverse relationships of community species richness and diversity along the post-fire recovery gradient. Based on these results, we develop a conceptual model of post-fire bog recolonization and succession, in which microtopography, soil moisture, and combustion severity interact, thereby presenting the first comprehensive description of the spatio-temporal post-fire successional trajectory of the bog ground layer.
27823716|The highly invasive giant knotweed (Reynoutria spp.) often displaces nettle (Urtica dioica) dominated stands in European floodplains. Urtica-dominated stands differ from the monospecific Reynoutria stands in plant species richness and stand structure. We thus hypothesize that Reynoutria invasion profoundly alters ecosystem structure and function, with negative effects cascading up through the food chain. We performed a paired sampling design in six sites belonging to two different locations and studied effects on the soil and the litter-dwelling fauna. Reynoutria stands differed in habitat structure and were characterized by decreased soil pH and potassium depletion. The faunal analysis is based on model groups of herbivore generalists (Gastropoda), detritivores (Isopoda and Diplopoda), and predators (Opiliones). The gastropod assemblages from Reynoutria stands were severely impoverished subsets of those from Urtica stands with reduced densities, species richness and diversity. In general, snails were more sensitive to Reynoutria invasion than slugs such as the invasive Arion 'lusitanicus'. Among detritivores, the abundance of the Isopoda decreased, whereas Diplopoda were not affected by Reynoutria invasion. Yet, the relative abundance of detritivores was significantly higher within the Reynoutria stands. Abundance, species richness and diversity of the predatory Opiliones were higher in the relatively sparse Reynoutria stands. We conclude that ecosystem changes associated with Reynoutria invasion are characterized by shifts from a plant-based to a detritus-based food chain and that Reynoutria invasion primarily enhances predators that profit from the simplified vegetation structure.
3659037| The objective of this study was to quantify spatial patterns in above- and belowground biomass, primary productivity, and growth efficiency along a tidal gradient in a 4700-ha mangrove forest in the Dominican Republic. We tested the hypothesis that spatial patterns of forest structure and growth following 50 years of development were associated with variations in the soil environment across the tidal gradient. Twenty-three plots were monitored from 1994 to 1998. Aboveground biomass and biomass accumulation were estimated by applying allometric regression equations derived from dimension analysis of trees harvested at our study site. Soil porewater salinity ranged from
25053853|The arboreal ant communities of a primary lowland rain forest and three differently disturbed forests that lie close together forming an anthropogenic disturbance gradient were collected with insecticide fogging. Combined samples from all trees (87 foggings) comprised 153,504 ants sorted to 331 morphospecies. The primary forest ant fauna was characterized by high species richness and 53 foggings were necessary to collect communities representatively. Another 63 species of ants were found in the disturbed forests indicating a large regional species pool that might exceed 420 species of arboreal ants. Anthropogenic disturbance caused a change in the taxonomic composition, diversity and structure of ant communities. Community size was a predictor of species richness in the severely disturbed forest types but not in the old secondary or primary forest. Ant abundance had declined significantly in the disturbed forests and only 10% of the primary forest's species were collected in the most disturbed forest type. In each of the secondary forests a change in the frequency distribution of species was observed and a small number of species had gained numerical dominance. Analysis of species associations indicates that the strength of species interactions changed with the degree of forest disturbance. These changes were still clearly recognizable after 40 years of forest regeneration despite optimal conditions for colonization from the adjacent primary forest, demonstrating that the time scale needed for forest recovery after anthropogenic disturbance is very long.
40296318|Headwater streams represent the key sites of nutrient retention, but little is known about temporal variation in this important process. We used monthly measurements over 2 years to examine variation in retention of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) and ammonium (NH) in two Mediterranean headwater streams with contrasting hydrological regimes (that is, perennial versus intermittent). Differences in retention between streams were more evident for NH , likely due to strong differences in the potential for nitrogen limitation. In both streams, nutrient-retention efficiency was negatively influenced by abrupt discharge changes, whereas gradual seasonal changes in SRP demand were partially controlled by riparian vegetation dynamics through changes in organic matter and light availability. Nutrient concentrations were below saturation in the two streams; however, SRP demand increased relative to NH demand in the intermittent stream as the potential for phosphorus limitation increased (that is, higher dissolved inorganic nitrogen: SRP ratio). Unexpectedly, variability in nutrient retention was not greater in the intermittent stream, suggesting high resilience of biological communities responsible for nutrient uptake. Within-stream variability of all retention metrics, however, increased with increasing time scale. A review of studies addressing temporal variation of nutrient retention at different time scales supports this finding, indicating increasing variability of nutrient retention with concomitant increases in the variability of environmental factors from the diurnal to the interannual scale. Overall, this study emphasizes the significance of local climate conditions in regulating nutrient retention and points to potential effects of changes in land use and climate regimes on the functioning of stream ecosystems.
3658804|Estuaries and coastal wetlands are critical transition zones (CTZs) that link land, freshwater habitats, and the sea. CTZs provide essential ecological functions, including decomposition, nutrient cycling, and nutrient production, as well as regulation of fluxes of nutrients, water, particles, and organisms to and from land, rivers, and the ocean. Sediment-associated biota are integral to these functions. Functional groups considered essential to CTZ processes include heterotrophic bacteria and fungi, as well as many benthic invertebrates. Key invertebrate functions include shredding, which breaks down and recycles organic matter; suspension feeding, which collects and transports sediments across the sediment-water interface; and bioturbating, which moves sediment into or out of the seabed. In addition, macrophytes regulate many aspects of nutrient, particle, and organism dynamics above- and belowground. Animals moving within or through CTZs are vectors that transport nutrients and organic matter across terrestrial, freshwater, and marine interfaces. Significant threats to biodiversity within CTZs are posed by anthropogenic influences; eutrophication, nonnutrient pollutants, species invasions, overfishing, habitat alteration, and climate change affect species richness or composition in many coastal environments. Because biotic diversity in marine CTZ sediments is inherently low whereas their functional significance is great, shifts in diversity are likely to be particularly important. Species introductions (from invasion) or loss (from overfishing or habitat alteration) provide evidence that single-species changes can have overt, sweeping effects on CTZ structure and function. Certain species may be critically important to the maintenance of ecosystem functions in CTZs even though at present there is limited empirical evidence that the number of species in CTZ sediments is critical. We hypothesized that diversity is indeed important to ecosystem function in marine CTZs because high diversity maintains positive interactions among species (facilitation and mutualism), promoting stability and resistance to invasion or other forms of disturbance. The complexity of interactions among species and feedbacks with ecosystem functions suggests that comparative (mensurative) and manipulative approaches will be required to elucidate the role of diversity in sustaining CTZ functions.
40296384|Climate warming and major land-use changes have profoundly affected the Mongolian landscape in the past several decades. Previous studies have recognized the impacts of a warmer, more arid climate and Mongolia's 1991 transition from a command to a market economy on terrestrial ecosystems, including impaired sustainability of subsistence herding and threats to wild animals. In this study, we examined the combined effects of changing climate and herding practices on lake eutrophication in Western Mongolia. We sampled 65 lakes for modern nutrients and found the majority of lakes were eutrophic to hyper-eutrophic. Sediment cores were taken from five of the lakes to compare current lake status to paleolimnologial measures of lake eutrophication over the past 100-2000 years, including changes in diatom assemblages, diatom-inferred total phosphorus, biogenic silica, organic matter, and sediment accumulation rates. Variance partitioning analysis showed that recent shifts in diatom assemblages were related to changes in both climate and herding practices. The results presented here demonstrate a need for further study and long-term monitoring of water quality in Mongolia to understand the complicated interactions of climate and land use on aquatic resources and to preserve water quality in this remote and ecologically important region.
3658863|This article introduces and summarizes the foundations of network environ analysis and describes four primary properties resulting from this research. These properties-dominance of indirect effects (Higashi and Patten 1986), network amplification (Patten and others 1990), network homogenization (Patten and others 1990), and network synergism (Patten 1991)-provide insight into the behavior of holistic network interactions. In short, amplification, homogenization, and indirect effects demonstrate the influence of the indirect flows in a system to show that energy or matter cycling allows flow to return to the same component many times and tend to become evenly distributed within the network. Synergism relates direct and indirect, qualitative relations to show that network organization is, on the whole, more mutualistic than is apparent from direct interactions alone. Using network analysis, objects can be studied as part of a connected system and the indirect effects can be identified and quantified. This is a fundamentally different way of investigating ecosystems, and it gives a quantitative foundation to the widely held perception of the interconnectedness of nature.
40296389|The anthropogenic spread of exotic ecosystem engineers profoundly impacts native ecosystems. Exotic earthworms were shown to alter plant community composition of the understory of deciduous forests previously devoid of earthworms. We investigated the effect of two exotic earthworm species (Lumbricus terrestris L. and Octolasion tyrtae um Savigny) belonging to different ecological groups (anecic and endogeic) on the emergence of plants from the seed bank of a northern North American deciduous forest using the seedling emergence method. We hypothesized that (1) exotic earthworms change the seedling emergence from the plant seed bank, (2) L. terrestris increases the emergence of plant seedlings of the deeper soil layer but decreases that of the upper soil layer due to plant seed burial, and (3) 0. tyrtaeum decreases plant seedling emergence due the damage of plant seeds. Indeed, exotic earthworms altered the emergence of plant seedlings from the seed bank and the functional composition of the established plant seedlings. Surprisingly, although L. terrestris only marginally affected seedling emergence, 0. tyrtaeum changed the emergence of native plant species from the seed bank considerably. In particular, the number of emerging grass and herb seedlings were increased in the presence of 0. tyrtaeum in both soil layers. Moreover, the impacts of earthworms depended on the identity of plant functional groups; herb species benefited, whereas legumes suffered from the presence of exotic earthworms. The results highlight the strong effect of invasive belowground ecosystem engineers on aboveground ecosystem characteristics and suggest fundamental changes of ecosystems by humanspread earthworm species.
25470379|Detecting the early signs of stress is imperative for the conservation of natural ecosystems. They may, however, go unrecognized because ecosystems, when disturbed, may act as sinks that absorb the external impact without showing any evident changes. This seems to be the case of Lake Santo, a small water body located in a mountainous area of northern Italy. Tourism activity in this area began to develop in the early 1970s and grew continuously over the following 20 years. This activity caused a continually increasing nutrient load into the waters, but surprisingly the lake has remained oligo-mesotrophic, as it was before human pressure became a stressor to the lake. To anticipate possible severe damage to the ecosystem, we searched for early signs of stress by carrying out a retrospective analysis based on a whole-ecosystem approach using trophic flow networks. Ecosystem properties of the lake as calculated from network analysis for the disturbed (year 1991) and unimpacted (year 1973) configurations were compared, with the support of sensitivity analysis and statistical tests. We found evidence that in the period 1970-90 nutrient enrichment did change the course of normal development as the observed increase in system throughput was accompanied by a drop in the level of mutual organization of flows, which instead would be expected to increase during the natural progression of the ecosystem. The scenario that emerged from the comparison of system-level indices, cycling activity, trophic structure, and trophic efficiency indicates that the ecosystem has been subjected to stress. In particular, the type of disturbance corresponds to a quantitative definition of eutrophication.
25053872|The reduction-oxidation (redox) state of peatland pore waters plays an important role in many peatland biogeochemical processes. Recent research has also shown that the interface between ecosystems, or the ecotone, may be responsible for a disproportionate amount of biogeochemical activity when material and/or energy is hydrologically transported between ecosystems. The purpose of this research was to examine the spatiotemporal dynamics of redox conditions across two geomorphically distinct Boreal Precambrian Shield upland-peatland ecotones to determine the spatial and temporal scales at which these ecotones may be important. Pore water chemistry of iron and sulphur species was monitored across two upland-peatland ecotones in northwestern Ontario in conjunction with hydrological measurements under both stormflow and nonstormflow conditions. In addition, one upland-peatland ecotone was instrumented to make continuous measurements of in situ redox potential (Eh) over a 12-day period to determine whether measurements at a high temporal scale could provide additional insights into the transfer of nutrients across the upland-peatland interface. Results indicated that hydrology-specifically, groundwater flowpath and the strength of the hydrological connection between upland and peatland-determined the spatial extent of the ecotone as a biogeochemical hotspot. In situ Eh measurements showed that these ecotones may be most important over a scale of only several hours and are largely affected by lateral hydrological flows from the upland. The role of both hot spots and hot moments in biogeochemistry must be considered to accurately estimate the ability of a single ecosystem to process chemical inputs.
40296375|This article examines how alternative rural funding scenarios might influence the pattern of functional land types in mountain areas. The study aims were to explore the use of stakeholders to predict landscape change and to provide a future policy context for other papers in the Carbomont program. EU rural funding policies could have a strong influence on land use and landscapes in mountain areas. At eight sites across Europe, groups of local stakeholders were asked to compare the possible effects of three contrasting funding scenarios over an imagined period of 20 years on (1) the importance of the main landuse sectors; (2) the areas of the main land functional land types; and (3) the management of individual land types. Stakeholders also listed their interests in the area to help define the perspective of the group. The protocols used were ranking and scoring procedures that permitted quantification of changes and of the degree of consensus within the group. The scenarios were (1) continuation of current rural funding (status quo), (2) rapid reduction of farm income support (reduce support), and (3) increasing rural diversification funding (diversification). The eight countries sampled included five established EU members (UK, Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain), two new accession members (Czeck Republic and Slovakia), and Switzerland. There were predicted to be widespread reductions in the importance of the agricultural sector across Europe and increases in the transport, built environment, and tourism sectors. In general, the status quo scenario was perceived to be unsatisfactory in various respects, reduce support was worse, but diversification offered opportunities for conservation and development of mountain communities and land use. Changes in the areas of land types would mainly involve loss of arable and grazing land and increases in scrub, and settlements. Some elements of the landscape such as most forests, mountain tops, and wetlands would, however, be little affected by any of the scenarios.
41505914|Biological soil crusts (BSCs) are a key biotic component of dryland ecosystems worldwide. However, most studies carried out to date on carbon (C) fluxes in these ecosystems, such as soil respiration, have neglected them. We conducted a 3.5-year field experiment to evaluate the spatio-temporal heterogeneity of soil respiration in a semiarid Stipatenacissima steppe and to assess the contribution of BSC-dominated areas to the annual soil respiration of the whole ecosystem. We selected the six most frequent microsites in the study area: Stipa tussocks (ST), Retama sphaerocarpa shrubs (RS), and open areas with very low (< 5% BSC cover, BS), low, medium and high cover of well-developed BSCs. Soil respiration rates did not differ among BSCdominated microsites but were significantly higher and lower than those found in BS and ST microsites, respectively. A model using soil temperature and soil moisture accounted for over 85% of the temporal variation in soil respiration throughout the studied period. Using this model, we estimated a range of 240.4-322.6 g C m y released by soil respiration at our study area. Vegetated (ST and RS) and BSC-dominated microsites accounted for 37 and 42% of this amount, respectively. Our results indicate that accounting for the spatial heterogeneity in soil respiration induced by BSCs is crucial to provide accurate estimations of this flux at the ecosystem level. They also highlight that BSC-dominated areas are the main contributor to the total C released by soil respiration and, therefore, must be considered when estimating C budgets in drylands.
27823721|Ecosystem patterns and disturbance processes at one spatial scale often interact with processes at another scale, and the result of such cross-scale interactions can be nonlinear dynamics with thresholds. Examples of cross-scale pattern-process relationships and interactions among forest dieback, fire, and erosion are illustrated from northern New Mexico (USA) landscapes, where long-term studies have recently documented all of these disturbance processes. For example, environmental stress, operating on individual trees, can cause tree death that is amplified by insect mortality agents to propagate to patch and then landscape or even regional-scale forest dieback. Severe drought and unusual warmth in the southwestern USA since the late 1990s apparently exceeded species-specific physiological thresholds for multiple tree species, resulting in substantial vegetation mortality across millions of hectares of woodlands and forests in recent years. Predictions of forest dieback across spatial scales are constrained by uncertainties associated with: limited knowledge of species-specific physiological thresholds; individual and site-specific variation in these mortality thresholds; and positive feedback loops between rapidly-responding insect herbivore populations and their stressed plant hosts, sometimes resulting in nonlinear "pest" outbreak dynamics. Fire behavior also exhibits nonlinearities across spatial scales, illustrated by changes in historic fire regimes where patch-scale grazing disturbance led to regional-scale collapse of surface fire activity and subsequent recent increases in the scale of extreme fire events in New Mexico. Vegetation dieback interacts with fire activity by modifying fuel amounts and configurations at multiple spatial scales. Runoff and erosion processes are also subject to scale-dependent threshold behaviors, exemplified by ecohydrological work in semiarid New Mexico watersheds showing how declines in ground surface cover lead to non-linear increases in bare patch connectivity and thereby accelerated runoff and erosion at hillslope and watershed scales. Vegetation dieback, grazing, and fire can change land surface properties and cross-scale hydrologic connectivities, directly altering ecohydrological patterns of runoff and erosion. The interactions among disturbance processes across spatial scales can be key drivers in ecosystem dynamics, as illustrated by these studies of recent landscape changes in northern New Mexico. To better anticipate and mitigate accelerating human impacts to the planetary ecosystem at all spatial scales, improvements are needed in our conceptual and quantitative understanding of cross-scale interactions among disturbance processes.
3658669|EcoSim II uses results from the Ecopath procedure for trophic mass-balance analysis to define biomass dynamics models for predicting temporal change in exploited ecosystems. Key populations can be represented in further detail by using delay-difference models to account for both biomass and numbers dynamics. A major problem revealed by linking the population and biomass dynamics models is in representation of population responses to changes in food supply; simple proportional growth and reproductive responses lead to unrealistic predictions of changes in mean body size with changes in fishing mortality. EcoSim II allows users to specify life history mechanisms to avoid such unrealistic predictions: animals may translate changes in feeding rate into changes in reproductive rather than growth rates, or they may translate changes in food availability into changes in foraging time that in turn affects predation risk. These options, along with model relationships for limits on prey availability caused by predation avoidance tactics, tend to cause strong compensatory responses in modeled populations. It is likely that such compensatory responses are responsible for our inability to find obvious correlations between interacting trophic components in fisheries time-series data. But Ecosim II does not just predict strong compensatory responses: it also suggests that large piscivores may be vulnerable to delayed recruitment collapses caused by increases in prey species that are in turn competitors/predators of juvenile piscivores.
3658628|We report on the effect of lake size, water transparency, and wind on the frequency of transient nearsurface thermoclines in 39 boreal lakes from the Experimental Lakes Area (ELA) and Northwest Ontario Lake Size Series (NOLSS). This study was based on more than 3000 archived temperature profiles amassed over a 25-year period for lakes ranging from 2 ha to 8 million ha in surface area. The incidence of transient thermoclines decreased with increasing lake size from 90% of all summer days in small lakes (less than 4 ha) to 40% or less in the larger NOLSS lakes (up to 34,700 ha). No transient near-surface thermoclines were detected in Lake Superior. Forest fires and climatic variability were also found to affect the frequency of nearsurface thermoclines. Long-term trends indicate an increase in average annual wind velocity in the area, possibly as the result of extensive forest fires and clearcutting. The subsequent decrease in the frequency of shallow secondary thermoclines in aquatic ecosystems has possible consequences for the lake biota, as the result of changes in radiation, turbulence, and the nutrient regime.
27823695|Efforts to improve models of terrestrial productivity and to understand the function of tropical forests in global carbon cycles require a mechanistic understanding of spatial variation in aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) across tropical landscapes. To help derive such an understanding for Borneo, we monitored aboveground fine litterfall, woody biomass increment and ANPP (their sum) in mature forest over 29 months across a soil nutrient gradient in southwestern Kalimantan. In 30 (0.07 ha) plots stratified throughout the watershed (340 ha, 8190 m a.s.l.), we measured productivity and tested its relationship with 27 soil parameters. ANPP across the study area was among the highest reported for mature lowland tropical forests. Aboveground fine litterfall ranged from 5.1 to 11.0 Mg ha1 year1 and averaged 7.7  0.4 (mean  95 C.I.). Woody biomass increment ranged from 5.8 to 23.6 Mg ha1 year1 and averaged 12.0  2.0. Growth of large trees (60 cm dbh) contributed 3882% of plot-wide biomass increment and explained 92% of variation among plots. ANPP, the sum of these parameters, ranged from 11.1 to 32.3 Mg ha1 year1 and averaged 19.7  2.2. ANPP was weakly related to fine literfall (r2 = 0.176), but strongly related to growth of large trees at least 60 cm dbh (r2 = 0.848). Adjusted ANPP after accounting for apparent "mature forest bias" in our sampling method was 17.5  1.2 Mg ha1 year1. Relating productivity measures to soil parameters showed that spatial patterning in productivity was significantly related to soil nutrients, especially phosphorus (P). Fine litterfall increased strongly with extractable P (r2 = 0.646), but reached an asymptote at moderate P levels, whereas biomass increment (r2 = 0.473) and ANPP (r2 = 0.603) increased linearly across the gradient. Biomass increment of large trees was more frequently and strongly related to nutrients than small trees, suggesting size dependency of tree growth on nutrients. Multiple linear regression confirmed the leading importance of soil P, and identified Ca as a potential co-limiting factor. Our findings strongly suggest that (1) soil nutrients, especially P, limit aboveground productivity in lowland Bornean forests, and (2) these forests play an important, but changing role in carbon cycles, as canopy tree logging alters these terrestrial carbon sinks.
41413044|Soil respiration (R s ) is known to be highly sensitive to different environmental factors, such as temperature, precipitation, and the soil carbon (C) pool. Thus, the scenario of global change expected for the coming decades might imply important consequences for R s dynamics. In addition, all of these factors may have an interactive effect, and the consequences are often confounded. We performed a field experiment to analyze the effect of soil moisture and habitat type on R s in a Mediterranean-type ecosystem by simulating three possible climate scenarios differing in the precipitation amount during summer (drier, wetter, and current precipitation pattern) in the main successional habitats in the area (forest, shrubland, and open habitat). We also considered other factors that would affect R s , such as the soil C pool and microbial biomass. By the use of structural-equation modeling (SEM), we disentangled the interactive effects of the different factors affecting R s . A higher simulated precipitation boosted R s for the different habitats across the sampling period (14.6% higher respect to control), whereas the more severe simulated drought reduced it (19.2% lower respect to control), a trend that was similar at the daily scale. Temperature had, by contrast, scant effects on R s . The SEM analysis revealed a positive effect of moisture and canopy cover on R s , whereas the effect of temperature was weaker and negative. Soil C pool and microbial biomass did not affect R s . We conclude that the precipitation changes expected for the coming decades would play a more important role in controlling R s than would other factors. Thus, the projected changes in the precipitation pattern may have much more profound direct effects on R s than will the projected temperature increases.
40603666|A terrestrial ecosystem model, called the Vegetation Integrative Simulator for Trace gases model (VISIT), which fully integrates biogeochemical carbon and nitrogen cycles, was developed to simulate atmosphere-ecosystem exchanges of greenhouse gases (CO , CH, and NO), and to determine the global warming potential (GWP) taking into account the radiative forcing effect of each gas. The model was then applied to a cool-temperate deciduous broadleaved forest in Takayama, central Japan (36 08 /N, 137 25' E, 1420 m above sea level). Simulations were conducted at a daily time step from 1948 to 2008, using time-series meteorological and nitrogen deposition data. VISIT accurately captured the carbon and nitrogen cycles of this typical Japanese forest, as validated by tower and chamber flux measurements. During the last 10 years of the simulation, the model estimated that the forest was a net greenhouse gas sink, having a GWP equivalent of 1025.7 g CO m y, most of which (1016.9 g CO m y) was accounted for by net CO sequestration into forest biomass regrowth. CH oxidation by the forest soil made a small contribution to the net sink (11.9 g CO -eq. m y), whereas NO emissions were a very small source (3.2 g CO -eq. m y), as expected for a volcanic soil in a humid climate. Analysis of the sensitivity of GWP to changes in temperature, precipitation, and nitrogen deposition indicated that warming temperatures would decrease the size of the sink, mainly as a result of increased CO release due to increased ecosystem respiration.
27823681|Wildfire can influence a variety of stream ecosystem properties. We studied stream temperatures in relation to wildfire in small streams in the Boise River Basin, located in central Idaho, USA. To examine the spatio-temporal aspects of temperature in relation to wildfire, we employed three approaches: a prepost fire comparison of temperatures between two sites (one from a burned stream and one unburned) over 13 years, a short-term (3 year) prepost fire comparison of a burned and unburned stream with spatially extensive data, and a short-term (1 year) comparative study of spatial variability in temperatures using a "space for time" substitutive design across 90 sites in nine streams (retrospective comparative study). The latter design included streams with a history of stand-replacing wildfire and streams with severe post-fire reorganization of channels due to debris flows and flooding. Results from these three studies indicated that summer maximum water temperatures can remain significantly elevated for at least a decade following wildfire, particularly in streams with severe channel reorganization. In the retrospective comparative study we investigated occurrence of native rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and tailed frog larvae (Ascaphus montanus) in relation to maximum stream temperatures during summer. Both occurred in nearly every site sampled, but tailed frog larvae were found in much warmer water than previously reported in the field (26.6C maximum summer temperature). Our results show that physical stream habitats can remain altered (for example, increased temperature) for many years following wildfire, but that native aquatic vertebrates can be resilient. In a management context, this suggests wildfire may be less of a threat to native species than human influences that alter the capacity of stream-living vertebrates to persist in the face of natural disturbance.
3658822| Community-wide feeding interrelationships in a low-diversity coral reef off the Pacific coast of Panam (Uva Island reef) demonstrate complex pathways involving herbivore, strong corallivore, and carnivore interactions. Four trophic levels with 31 interguild links are identified in a generalized food web, and documented feeding interrelationships with 287+ species links are portrayed in a coral-corallivore subweb. The importance of trophic groups changes greatly with time, from unknown causes over annual to decadal-scale periods, and during very strong El Nio-Southern Oscillation events such that intermittent intense herbivory by echinoids (Diadema) and corallivory by gastropod mollusks, the crown-of-thorns sea star Acanthaster, hermit crabs, and fishes result in high levels of coral mortality and bioerosion of reef substratum. Intraregional differences in species composition and abundances affecting food-web interactions are briefly described for nonupwelling (Uva Island) and upwelling areas (Pearl Islands) in Panam. Seasonal upwelling in the Pearl Islands results in high plankton productivity, which likely augments production in invertebrates, fishes, marine mammals, and seabirds, but these pathways still remain largely unquantified. The corallivore Acanthaster is absent from upwelling centers in Panam and from upwelling and nonupwelling areas in the southern and central Galpagos Islands, and the highly destructive, facultative corallivore Eucidaris galapagensis occurs only in the latter offshore islands and at Cocos Island. Relatively recent declines in the abundances of manta rays, sharks, and spiny lobsters are correlated with, but not necessarily causally linked to, increasing fishing activities in the late 1970s to early 1980s. The extent to which the complex yet highly unstable Uva Island food web is representative of other eastern Pacific coral reef ecosystems remains to be investigated. 
40603615|We model effects of interspecific plant competition, herbivory, and a plant's toxic defenses against herbivores on vegetation dynamics. The model predicts that, when a generalist herbivore feeds in the absence of plant toxins, adaptive foraging generally increases the probability of coexistence of plant species populations, because the herbivore switches more of its effort to whichever plant species is more common and accessible. In contrast, toxin-determined selective herbivory can drive plant succession toward dominance by the more toxic species, as previously documented in boreal forests and prairies. When the toxin concentrations in different plant species are similar, but species have different toxins with nonadditive effects, herbivores tend to diversify foraging efforts to avoid high intakes of any one toxin. This diversification leads the herbivore to focus more feeding on the less common plant species. Thus, uncommon plants may experience depensatory mortality from herbivory, reducing local species diversity. The depensatory effect of herbivory may inhibit the invasion of other plant species that are more palatable or have different toxins. These predictions were tested and confirmed in the Alaskan boreal forest.
23253731|Cultivation and cropping are major causes of destruction and degradation of natural ecosystems throughout the world. We face the challenge of maintaining provisioning services while conserving or enhancing other ecosystem services and biodiversity in agricultural landscapes. There is a range of possibilities within two types of intervention, namely "land sharing" and "land separation"; the former advocates the enhancement of the farmed environment, but the latter a separation between land designated for farming versus conservation. Land sharing may involve biodiversity-based agricultural practices, learning from traditional farming, changing from conventional to organic agriculture and from "simple" crops and pastures to agro-forestry systems, and restoring or creating specific elements to benefit wildlife and particular services without decreasing agricultural production. Land separation in the farmland context involves restoring or creating non-farmland habitat at the expense of field-level agricultural productionfor example, woodland on arable land. Restoration by land sharing has the potential to enhance agricultural production, other ecosystem services and biodiversity at both the field and landscape scale; however, restoration by land separation would provide these benefits only at the landscape scale. Although recent debate has contrasted these approaches, we suggest they should be used in combination to maximize benefits. Furthermore, we suggest "woodland islets", an intermediate approach between land abandonment and farmland afforestation, for ecological restoration in extensive agricultural landscapes. This approach allows reconciliation of farmland production, conservation of values linked to cultural landscapes, enhancement of biodiversity, and provision of a range of ecosystem services. Beyond academic research, restoration projects within agricultural landscapes are essential if we want to halt environmental degradation and biodiversity loss.
3658922|The native tree Metrosideros polymorpha dominates Hawaiian forests across a very wide range of soil fertility, including both sites where forest production is limited by nitrogen (N) and others where it is limited by phosphorus (P). Five long-term fertilization experiments have further broadened the range of nutrient availabilities experienced by Metrosideros. Adding P to P-limited sites increased foliar P concentrations threefold and litter P concentrations up to 10-fold; lignin concentrations decreased, and the decomposability of leaf litter increased from 32%-35% to 36%-46% mass loss in the first year. Adding N to N-limited sites increased leaf and litter N concentrations by only 15%-20%, with little or no effect on the decomposability of tissue.
40928208|Carbon sequestration in soils that have previously been depleted of organic matter due to agriculture is an important component of global strategies to mitigate rising atmospheric CO concentrations. Extensive areas of low productivity farmland have been abandoned from agriculture in eastern North America and elsewhere over the past century, and are naturally regenerating to temperate forests. We investigated the soil carbon sequestration potential of such lands by sampling adjacent mature forest and agricultural field sites, and replicated chronosequences of forest succession on Podzol, Brunisol, and Luvisol soil types that are considered 'marginal' for agriculture and have been abandoned extensively across southeastern Ontario, Canada. Total soil organic carbon and nitrogen stocks to 10 cm depth were approximately 32% and 18% lower, respectively, in agricultural fields compared to mature forests. Furthermore, carbon stocks across our 100-year chronosequences increased most within the 0-5 cm soil depth interval, tended to increase within the 5-10 cm interval, and were unaltered within the 10-20 cm interval. Soil type had little effect on the potential magnitude or rates of soil carbon sequestration (~ 10 g C m y in the top 10 cm), perhaps because all sites shared a common vegetation successional pattern. Finally, our investigations of the 'labile' free-light carbon and nitrogen fractions in the Brunisol soil type indicated no increases across the chronosequence, implying that soil carbon accumulation was primarily in more recalcitrant pools. Our results indicate that each of these low productivity soil types can be moderate carbon sinks for a century following agricultural abandonment, and strongly suggest that time since abandonment is more important than soil type in determining the potential magnitude of carbon sequestration within this climatic region.
23501471|Water redistribution from bare soil to vegetation patches is a key feature of semi-arid ecosystems, and is responsible for their patchy vegetation patterns. The magnitude of water redistribution depends on the properties of the bare soil (which determine the amount of water run-off) and the capacity of vegetation patches to trap water run-on. We examined the relationships between plant spatial patterns, water infiltration into bare soil, and plant community composition in semi-arid sites with different hydro-physical properties (silty and gypseous soils) in NE Spain. We also studied the effect of two stressors, aridity and grazing, on water infiltration and plant spatial patterns. Our results indicate a negative correlation of bare soil sorptivity (the capacity to absorb water by capillarity) and vegetation aggregation. There was a strong positive correlation between perennial grass cover and the spatial aggregation of vegetation, but aggregation was not associated with positive associations of different plant types. The aggregation of vegetation was positively correlated with species richness and the overall extent of vegetation cover. Grazing reduced water infiltration into silty soils, which are prone to compaction. In contrast, soil crust affected the hydrology of gypseous soils, especially in the most arid sites, where grazing increased infiltration, reducing surface sealing due to breaking of the soil crust. Together, our results suggest that biotic and abiotic factors affect the hydro-physical properties of soils in the semi-arid ecosystems of NE Spain, which is linked to the plant communities through the spatial distribution of plants.
23253693|Over the last three decades, increased temperatures and reduced annual precipitation have resulted in significant changes in several Central European deciduous forests. These effects include changes in soil moisture content and detritus production. Within the framework of a detritus manipulation experiment carried out in an old-growth Quercetum petraeacerris community, we examined how changes in detritus inputs affect soil moisture content and microbial activity within six treatments. CO 2 release and microbial enzyme activities are known to be highly sensitive to environmental factors such as soil moisture and detritus inputs. We applied three detritus removal (No Litter, No Roots and No Input) and two detritus addition (Double Litter and Double Wood) treatments. Although the plots received the same amount of precipitation, the various detritus inputs caused significant differences in soil moisture. Treatments excluding living roots had the highest moisture levels, while the treatment excluding only aboveground detritus inputs had the lowest. CO 2 release, arylsulphatase activity and saccharase activity showed significant seasonal differences with the highest values occurring in spring. Moisture content had a significant positive correlation with CO 2 release, and enzyme activities of the plots were affected by the quantity and quality of detritus inputs. Arylsulphatase activity showed the strongest correlation with soil moisture content (R = 0.62 in the control plot) followed by CO 2 release (R = 0.61) and finally saccharase activity (R = 0.42). We observed that there was a remarkably weaker correlation between soil moisture content and the three parameters in the detritus removal treatments (R values between 0.56 and 0.13) than in the Control and detritus addition treatments (R values between 0.72 and 0.42). The correlation between the three parameters of interest and soil moisture content weakens considerably under drought conditions relative to the optimal moisture range of soil moisture content for microbial activity. If the amount of precipitation in the area continues to decrease as anticipated, then litter production and soil microbial activity may be reduced.
27823701|Fynbos is the main vegetation of the Cape Floristic Region, a biodiversity hotspot that occurs in southwestern South Africa. A major question concerning the fynbos ecosystem is how it supports abundant and diverse vegetation on soils derived from nutrient-poor bedrock. In addition to marine aerosols (recycled sea salts), geochemical analyses reported here suggest that dust (aeolian) deposition represents a significant source of nutrients (for example, K, Ca and Zn) to the fynbos ecosystem. Headwater portions of the Boontjies River subcatchment near the Cederberg Mountains support mountain fynbos communities that are entirely underlain by the Peninsula Formation, a quartz arenite with greater than 98 wt% SiO2. Fynbos soils in these areas are composed of quartzose sand with 36 wt% kaolinitic clay and 12 wt% organic carbon. The minor amount of feldspar and mica minerals in the bedrock (0.5 wt% Al2O3) suggests an aeolian source for much of the clay minerals in the soil. The isotope composition of soluble Pb and Sr from fynbos vegetation and soils indicates a mixture of anthropogenic and terrigenous sources, most likely from washout of combusted petrol and dust from the arid interior particularly in association with Berg Wind events. Approximate mass balance calculations indicate that washout of aerosols provides an important source of nutrients such as Ca, K, P, Fe, Mn and Zn which the fynbos ecosystem is highly effective in retaining.
27823686|Sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.)-dominated northern hardwood forests of the Great Lakes Region commonly receive elevated levels of atmospheric nitrate (NO3) deposition, which can alter belowground carbon (C) cycling. Past research has demonstrated that chronic experimental NO3 deposition (3 g N m2 y1 above ambient) elicits a threefold increase in the leaching loss of dissolved organic carbon (DOC). Here, we used DOC collected from tension-cup lysimeters to test whether increased DOC export under experimental NO3 deposition originated from forest floor or mineral soil organic matter (SOM). We used DOC radiocarbon dating to quantify C sources and colorimetric assays to measure DOC aromaticity and soluble polyphenolic content. Our results demonstrated that DOC exports are primarily derived from new C (<50-years-old) in the forest floor under both ambient and experimental NO3 deposition. Experimental NO3 deposition increased soluble polyphenolic content from 25.03  4.26 to 49.19  4.23 g phenolic C mg DOC1, and increased total aromatic content as measured by specific UV absorbance. However, ncreased aromatic compounds represented a small fraction (<10%) of the total observed increased DOC leaching. In combination, these findings suggest that experimental NO3 deposition has altered the production or retention as well as phenolic content of DOC formed in forest floor, however exact mechanisms are uncertain. Further elucidation of the mechanism(s) controlling enhanced DOC leaching is important for understanding long-term responses of Great Lakes forests to anthropogenic N deposition and the consequences of those responses for aquatic ecosystems.
27823704|Headwater streams are key sites of nutrient and organic matter processing and retention, but little is known about temporal variability in gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER) rates as a result of the short duration of most metabolism measurements in lotic ecosystems. We examined temporal variability and controls on ecosystem metabolism by measuring daily rates continuously for 2 years in Walker Branch, a first-order deciduous forest stream. Four important scales of temporal variability in ecosystem metabolism rates were identified: (1) seasonal, (2) day-to-day, (3) episodic (storm-related), and (4) inter-annual. Seasonal patterns were largely controlled by the leaf phenology and productivity of the deciduous riparian forest. Walker Branch was strongly net heterotrophic throughout the year with the exception of the open-canopy spring when GPP and ER rates were co-equal. Day-to-day variability in weather conditions influenced light reaching the streambed, resulting in high day-to-day variability in GPP particularly during spring (daily light levels explained 84% of the variance in daily GPP in April). Episodic storms depressed GPP for several days in spring, but increased GPP in autumn by removing leaves shading the stream-bed. Storms depressed ER initially, but then stimulated ER to 23 times pre-storm levels for several days. Walker Branch was strongly net heterotrophic in both years of the study, with annual GPP being similar (488 and 519 g O2 m2 y1 or 183 and 195 g C m2 y1) but annual ER being higher in 2004 than 2005 (1,645 vs. 1,292 g O2 m2 y1 or 617 and 485 g C m2 y1). Inter-annual variability in ecosystem metabolism (assessed by comparing 2004 and 2005 rates with previous measurements) was the result of the storm frequency and timing and the size of the spring macroalgal bloom. Changes in local climate can have substantial impacts on stream ecosystem metabolism rates and ultimately influence the carbon source and sink properties of these important ecosystems.
3658954|General circulation models (GCM) predict that increasing levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
27823665|High-latitude, shelf Antarctic benthic communities are highly diversified and structured, dominated by benthic suspension feeders, and are subject to major natural disturbances. This study focuses on spatial patterns of the Antarctic benthos emphasizing the succession process after iceberg disturbance. For this purpose, underwater photographs (1 m2 each) from the southeastern Weddell Sea shelf (<300 m depth) were analyzed using techniques from the field of landscape ecology. Here, we examine measurements of spatial patterns (landscape indices) to describe changes in structural patterns along successional stages on these Antarctic benthic communities. We show a gradual separation from the early to older stages of succession based on sessile benthic cover area, size, shape, diversity, and interspersion and juxtaposition indices. Conceptually, the results describe a gradient from samples belonging to first stages of recovery with low cover area, low complexity of patch shape, small patch size, low diversity and patches poorly interspersed to samples from later stages with higher values of these indices. Cover area was the best predictor of recovery. We conclude that a variety of factors affect the observed successional sequences of Antarctic shelf benthic communities after iceberg disturbance, including the existence and dispersal abilities of propagules, growth rates, and competition between species. Overall, changes in the magnitude, frequency, and duration of disturbance regimes and alterations of ecosystem resilience pose major challenges for conservation of Antarctic benthos.
25470399|Dreissenid mussels (the zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha and the quagga mussel D. bugensis) are ecosystem engineers that modify the physical environment by increasing light penetration. Such a change is likely to affect the distribution and diversity of submerged macrophytes. Filter-feeding by these mussels has been associated with increased water clarity in many North American and European lakes. In this study, we report the increase in water clarity of Oneida Lake, New York, USA, for 1975-2002 and argue that the increase was caused by zebra mussel invasion rather than declines in nutrients. Over the study period, although mean total phosphorus decreased significantly, the main increase in water clarity occurred after the zebra mussel invasion in 1991. The average depth receiving 1% surface light increased from 6.7 m to 7.8 m after the invasion of zebra mussels, representing a 23% areal expansion. The maximum depth of macrophyte colonization, as measured by diver and hydroacoustic surveys, increased from 3.0 m before the invasion of zebra mussels to 5.1 m after their establishment. In addition, macrophyte species richness increased, the frequency of occurrence increased for most species, and the composition of the macrophyte community changed from low-light-tolerant species to those tolerating a wide range of light conditions. Comparisons with observations reported in the literature indicate that increased light penetration alone could explain these changes in macrophyte distribution and diversity. Such changes will increase the importance of benthic primary production over pelagic production in the food web, thereby representing an overall alteration of ecosystem function, a process we refer to as "benthification".
40296351|Coarse woody debris (CWD) volume and diversity are vital attributes of forest ecosystems. However, despite their importance, their long-term dynamics associated with fire- or logging-origin and over-story type have not been examined in boreal forest. We hypothesize that (1) CWD compositional diversity increases with stand development whereas CWD volume follows a U-shaped pattern. Furthermore, we attempted to test if (2) CWD volume and compositional diversity converge for postlogged and postfire stands through stand development, and (3) mixedwoods have more CWD volume and greater compositional diversity than conifer or broadleaf overstory types. We sampled 72 stands ranging in age from 7 to 201 years in fire-origin stands and 731 years in managed stands with conifer, mixedwood, and broadleaf overstory types in central boreal Canada. For fire-origin stands, snag volume was 100-260 m/ha in 7-year-old stands, 520 m/ha in 25-year-old stands, and 2560 m/ha in older stands; downed woody debris (DWD) volume decreased from 7 to 7290 year-old stands, increased in 124-to 139-year-old stands, then either decreased or increased in 201-year-old stands depending on overstory type. CWD diversity increased from 25 to 124139 year-old and plateaued, but in 7-year-old stands, CWD diversity was as high as that in the 124 and up year-old age classes. Logging resulted in a smaller amount and lower size variability of CWD in 7-year-old stands, with a larger portion being fast-decomposing Betula papyrifera. Most CWD characteristics had not converged by approximately 30 years since disturbance between the two stand origins. More diverse CWD occurred in mixedwoods, but conifer stands contained the greatest CWD volume except in 7 year-old postfire stands.
3658790|It is not possible to determine the causal relationship between fishkills and the toxic dinoflagellate Pfiesteria piscicida in the Neuse River Estuary, North Carolina, using observational data on these two variables alone. However, consideration of a third variable, indicating the presence of a broader class of more easily measured Pfiesteria-like organisms (PLOs), leads to causal model structures from which the nature of this relationship can be distinguished. We use reported field data to evaluate alternative models and find that the suggestion that toxic Pfiesteria cause fishkills is inconsistent with observation. The data are more indicative of a model in which PLOs (including potentially toxic Pfiesteria) are stimulated to become actively toxic by the presence of already dead or dying fish. Laboratory experiments performed to date do not provide evidence contradictory to this finding. However, neither can the existence of a common cause of both Pfiesteria toxicity and fishkills be ruled out. The differing implications for ecosystem management suggest that these causal associations should be further investigated through additional modeling and data collection efforts. Graphical methods of model construction and evaluation can assist in this process.
41505929|Various studies over the last 15 years have attempted to describe the processes of N retention, saturation and NO leaching in semi-natural ecosystems based on stable isotope studies. Forest ecologists and terrestrial biogeochemists have used N labelled NO and NH tracers to determine the fate of atmospheric deposition inputs of N to terrestrial ecosystems, with NO leaching to surface waters being a key output flux. Separate studies by aquatic ecologists have used similar isotope tracer methods to determine the fate and impacts of inorganic N species, leached from terrestrial ecosystems, on aquatic ecosystems, usually without reference to comparable terrestrial studies. A third group of isotopic studies has employed natural abundances of N and O in precipitation and surface water NO to determine the relative contributions of atmospheric and microbial sources. These three sets of results often appear to conflict with one another. Here we attempt to synthesize and reconcile the results of these differing approaches to identifying both the source and the fate of inorganic N in natural or semi-natural ecosystems, and identify future research priorities. We conclude that the results of different studies conform to a consistent conceptual model comprising: (1) rapid microbial turnover of atmospherically deposited NO at multiple biologically active locations within both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems; (2) maximum retention and accumulation of N in carbon-rich ecosystems and (3) maximum leaching of NO, most of which has been microbially cycled, from carbon-poor ecosystems exposed to elevated atmospheric N inputs.
25470364|In quantifying the carbon budget of the Amazon region, temporal estimates of the extent and age of regenerating tropical forests are fundamental. However, retrieving such information from remote-sensing data is difficult, largely because of spectral similarities between different successional stages and variations in the reflectance of forests following different pathways of regeneration. In this study, secondary-forest dynamics in Brazilian Amazonia were modeled for the 1978-2002 period to determine area and age on a grid basis. We modeled the area, age, and age class distribution of secondary forests using empirical relationships with the percentage of remaining primary forest, as determined from large-area remote-sensing campaigns (the Pathfinder and Prodes projects). The statistical models were calibrated using detailed maps of secondary-forest age generated for seven sites in the Brazilian Legal Amazon. The area-age distribution was then specified from mean age by a distribution assumption. Over the period 1978-2002, secondary-forest area was shown to have increased from 29,000 to 161,000 km (that is, by a factor of 5). The mean age increased from 4.4 to 4.8 years. We generated a time series of secondary-forest area fractions and successional stages that provides wall-to-wall coverage of the Brazilian Amazon at a spatial resolution of 0.1 decimal degrees (approximately 11 km). Validation against reference data yielded root mean squared errors of 8% of the total area for estimate of secondary-forest area and 2.4 years for mean secondary-forest age. Using this approach, we provide the first published update on the state of secondary forests in Amazonia since the early 1990s and a time series of secondary-forest area over the 25-year period.
3658996| In the southern boreal forest (Qubec, Canada), tree harvesting is a major disturbance affecting the dominant black spruce (Picea mariana) stands already suffering from naturally recurrent insect and fire disturbances. Although recovery of the spruce forest after an insect infestation or a fire is possible under current site conditions, it is less likely when both types of disturbance occur during a short period of time. The addition of yet another disturbance, such as tree harvesting, can thus have catastrophic consequences. We analyzed the impact of three successive disturbances-tree harvesting, insect infestation, and fire-on the regeneration of boreal spruce-moss forests within a period of approximately 50 years. The spruce forests were harvested in the 1940s and the 1950s. Recovery from the logging consisted of advance regeneration (spruce layers less than 1 m high that were left intact during clear-cuts), which was burned in 1991. The vegetation cover (mostly heath and lichen species) and soil conditions (acidic, nutrient-poor podzolic soils developed from coarse materials) of the postfire sites that we studied were similar. Stand structure and tree regeneration were documented from large quadrats (0.25 ha) using age, size, and tree ring data from postlogged and postfire spruce. At an early stage of development, the growing advance regeneration was damaged by insect defoliators in the late 1970s and the mid-1980s, and several trees died a few years before the 1991 fire. The successive disturbances considerably reduced the number of seed-bearers, leading to the collapse of postfire regeneration and a shift to parkland. Through a successional trajectory far from the expected trend for boreal forests influenced by single disturbance, the shift resulted in the formation of divergent plant communities. The development of divergent communities at the landscape scale is generally overlooked due to their small size. They indicate, however, the weak resilience of boreal forests faced with cascading perturbations, which are likely to increase in intensively logged areas. 
25053859|We assessed the long-term (16 years) effects of introducing piscivores (northern pike) into a small, boreal lake (Lake 221, Experimental Lakes Area) containing abundant populations of two planktivorous fish species. After the introduction, pearl dace were extirpated and yellow perch abundance was greatly reduced. Daphnia species shifted from D. galeata mendota to larger bodied Daphnia catawba, but the total zooplankton biomass did not increase, nor did the biomass of large grazers such as Daphnia. Phytoplankton biomass decreased after the northern pike introduction, but increased when northern pike were partially removed from the lake. Phosphorus (P) excretion by fish was 0.18 mg P
41413967|The influence of inland water bodies on the global carbon cycle and the great potential for long-term carbon burial in them is an important component of global limnology. We used paleolimnological methods to estimate changes in carbon burial rates through time in a suite of natural lakes in the US state of Iowa which has watersheds that have been heavily modified over the last 150 years. Our results show increasing carbon burial for all lakes in our study as agriculture intensified. Our estimates of carbon burial rates, before land clearance, are similar to the published worldwide averages for nutrient-poor lakes. In nearly all the cases, burial rates increased to very high levels (up to 200 g C my) following agricultural development. These results support the idea that the increased autochthonous and allochthonous carbon flux, related to anthropogenic change, leads to higher rates of carbon burial. Further, these results imply that the fraction of global carbon buried by lakes will be increasingly important in the future if worldwide trends in anthropogenic eutrophication continue.
3658988|To be able to estimate the cumulative carbon budget at broader scales, it is essential to understand net ecosystem exchanges (NEE) of carbon and water in various ages and types of ecosystems. Using eddy-covariance (EC) in Douglas-fir dominated forests in the Wind River Valley, Washington, USA, we measured NEE of carbon, water, and energy from July through September in a 40-year-old stand (40YR) in 1998, a 20-year-old stand (20YR) in 1999, and a 450-year-old stand (450YR) during both years. All three stands were net carbon sinks during the dry, warm summers, with mean net daily accumulation of
41505892|Fire is an important natural disturbance process in arid grasslands but current fire regimes are largely the result of both human and natural processes and their interactions. The collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 spurred substantial socioeconomic changes and was ultimately followed by a rapid increase in burned area in southern Russia. What is unclear is whether this increase in burned area was caused by decreasing livestock numbers, vegetation changes, climate change, or interactions of these factors. Our research goal was to identify the driving forces behind the increase in burned area in the arid grasslands of southern Russia. Our study area encompassed 19,000 km in the Republic of Kalmykia in southern Russia. We analyzed annual burned area from 1986 to 2006 as a function of livestock population, NDVI, precipitation, temperature, and broad-scale oscillation indices using best subset regressions and structural equation modeling. Our results supported the hypothesis that vegetation recovered within 5-6 years after the livestock declined in the beginning of the 1990s, to a point at which large fires could be sustained. Climate was an important explanatory factor for burning, but mainly after 1996 when lower livestock numbers allowed fuels to accumulate. Ultimately, our results highlight the complexity of coupled human-natural systems, and provide an example of how abrupt socioeconomic change may affect fire regimes.
3658643|Soils are dynamic components of terrestrial ecosystems that historically have been viewed as economic resources by government and private interests. The large-scale conversion of many sections of the United States to agriculture and urban land uses, combined with the growing awareness of the role of soils in global biogeochemistry and ecology, ultimately requires an assessment of the remaining distribution of undisturbed soils in the country. Here we conduct the first quantitative analysis of disturbed and undisturbed soil distribution in the USA using a GIS-based approach. We find that a sizable fraction (4.5%) of the nation's soils are in danger of substantial loss, or complete extinction, due to agriculture and urbanization. In the agricultural belt of the country, up to 80% of the soils that were naturally of low abundance are now severely impacted (greater than 50% conversion to agricultural/urban uses). Undisturbed soils provide ecosystem services that warrant their preservation, including a somewhat complex relationship with rare or endangered plants. The known and unknown attributes of undisturbed soils suggests the need for an integrated biogeodiversity perspective in landscape preservation efforts.
23325686|Forestry has been reported to cause elevated mercury (Hg) concentrations in runoff water. However, the degree to which forestry operations influence Hg in runoff varies among sites. A synoptic study, covering 54 catchments distributed all over Sweden, subjected to either stump harvest (SH), site preparation (SP) or no treatment (Ref), was undertaken to reveal the degree of forestry impact and causes of eventual variation. All streams were sampled twice, in autumn 2009 and summer 2010. There were no significant differences in total mercury (THg) and methylmercury (MeHg) concentrations between the three treatments in either 2009 or 2010. However, when pooling the treated catchments (that is, SH and SP) and taking catchment properties such as latitude into account, the treatment had a significant influence on the THg and MeHg concentrations. Although the treatment effect on THg and MeHg did not differ between SH and SP, the study did reveal significant forestry effects on potassium (K) and total nitrogen (TN) that were greater in the SH catchments and lower in the SP catchments. Partial least square (PLS) regressions indicated that organic matter was the most important variable influencing both the THg and MeHg concentrations. There were no significant differences between the treatment groups when comparing the ratios of THg/total organic carbon (TOC) and MeHg/TOC, suggesting that the high concentrations of THg and MeHg observed at some of the treated catchments are associated with increased concentrations of TOC rather than new methylation or increased mobilization caused by factors other than TOC.
40603417|Regional topography and climate variation yield differences in ecosystem attributes that make spatially scaled estimates of forest productivity challenging.Foliar nitrogen is a primary indicator of forest ecosystem productivity and is used in regional estimates of terrestrial productivity, but this characteristic has not been well described in the Central Appalachian region. Here we describe foliar and soil N variation among species and elevations at two spatial scales in the Central Appalachian region: (1) across the Elklick watershed in the Fernow Experimental Forest and (2) across the state of West Virginia.We found higher foliar N concentrations at both scales than those previously reported forotheremperate forest regions. Canopy and soil nitrogen concentrations were also much greater in the Fernow than generally observed across West Virginia.Soil N concentrations in the Fernow were two times greater than those observed across West Virginia. Species-related differences were observed at both spatial scales, but were not always consistent. Canopy N ranges are generally consistent across elevations throughout the state of West Virginia, but should be scaled according to species-related elevation effects for studies that estimate productivity differences in response to harvest or changing species composition. The incongruence of foliar and soil N concentrations at the Fernow Experimental Forest are not explained by elevation or species composition, but are likely a consequence of greater historical N and H + deposition relative to the surrounding West Virginia region.
3658644| The intraannual dynamics of particulate organic nitrogen (PON) and two fractions of dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) were investigated in two Rocky Mountain streams draining watersheds with low rates of N deposition. Organic nitrogen accounted for over 60% of the total annual nitrogen export and consisted mostly of DON. Nitrate peaked during winter months and declined considerably during the growing season (less than 10 g/L) suggesting the importance of biotic uptake. Concentrations of PON, total DON, and two DON fractions (humic and non-humic) peaked during spring runoff and were positively related to discharge, indicating hydrologic influence. Total DON and its two fractions showed significant inverse relationships to nitrate, indicating that DON and nitrate followed different intraannual patterns. Despite its seasonal fluctuations in concentration, PON showed a consistent carbon-nitrogen (C:N) ratio suggesting that it was relatively uniform in composition. Fractionation studies indicated that DON was primarily of nonhuman origin, whereas dissolved organic carbon (DOC) was mainly derived from humic sources. The two DON fractions differed from each other in seasonal patterns of concentration and C:N ratio. The proportion of humic DON increased during snowmelt, and there were diverging seasonal patterns in the C:N ratio of the two fractions implying variations in bioavailability. Although organic nitrogen is commonly treated as a single pool in ecological studies, our results indicated that DON consists of fractions that undergo large intraannual changes in proportions and chemical composition. Treatment of DON as a single pool may be misleading from the viewpoint of understanding ecosystem processes directly related to changes in its sources and biological reactivity. 
25470430|Nitrogen cycling in northern temperate forest ecosystems could change under increasing atmospheric CO and tropospheric O as a result of quantitative and qualitative changes in plant litter production. At the Aspen Free Air CO-O Enrichment (FACE) experiment, we previously found that greater substrate inputs to soil under elevated CO did not alter gross N transformation rates in the first 3 years of the experiment. We hypothesized that greater litter production under elevated CO would eventually cause greater gross N transformation rates and that CO effects would be nullified by elevated O. Following our original study, we continued measurement of gross N transformation rates for an additional four years. From 1999 to 2003, gross N mineralization doubled, N immobilization increased 4-fold, but changes in microbial biomass N and soil total N were not detected. We observed year-to-year variation in N transformation rates, which peaked during a period of foliar insect damage. Elevated CO caused equivalent increases in gross rates of N mineralization (+34%) and NH immobilization (+36%). These results indicate greater rates of N turnover under elevated CO, but do not indicate a negative feedback between elevated CO and soil N availability. Elevated O decreased gross N mineralization (-16%) and had no effect on NH immobilization, indicating reduced N availability under elevated O. The effects of CO and O on N mineralization rates were mainly related to changes in litter production, whereas effects on N immobilization were likely influenced by changes in litter chemistry and production. Our findings also indicate that concomitant increases in atmospheric CO and O could lead to a negative feedback on N availability.
40603632|Mesic-dry tundras are widespread in the Arctic but detailed assessments of net primary production (NPP) and ecosystem carbon (C) stocks are lacking.We addressed this lack of knowledge by determining the seasonal dynamics of aboveground vascular NPP, annual NPP, and whole-ecosystem stocks with contrasting microtopography, altitude, and dominant species. Those measurements were paralleled by the stock assessments of nitrogen (N), the limiting nutrient. The vascular production was determined by harvest or in situ growing units, in five mesic-dry tundras in Northern Sweden whereas the nonvascular production was obtained from average species growth rates, previously assessed at the sites. Results showed that aboveground vascular NPP (15-270 g m ), annual NPP (214-282 g m or 102-137 g m) and vegetation biomass (330-2450 g m ) varied greatly among communities. Vegetation dominated by Empetrum hermaphroditum is more productive than Cassiope tetragona vegetation. Although the large majority of the apical NPP occurred in early-mid season (85%), production of stems and evergreen leaves proceeded until about 2 weeks before senescence. Most of the vascular vegetation was belowground (80%), whereas most of the vegetation production occurred aboveground (85%).Ecosystem and N stocks were 2100-8200 g m and 80-330 g N m, respectively, stored mainly in the soil turf and in the fine organic soil. Such stocks are comparable to the and N stocks of moister tundra types, such as tussock tundra.
3658880| Moist acidic and nonacidic tundra are two of the most common vegetation types of the tundra in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range, Alaska, and they differ considerably in vegetation, soil nutrient availability, and soil pH. Both occur on mesic, gentle slopes, but acidic tundra is more common on older glacial surfaces whereas nonacidic tundra is more common on younger surfaces. Although much prior research has focused on moist acidic tundra, nonacidic tundra is still relatively unstudied. We compared rates of soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycling and their response to warming and changes in moisture in moist acidic tundra on Itkillik I glacial drift (50,000-120,000 years old, pH = 3-4) and moist nonacidic tundra on Itkillik II glacial drift (11,500-60,000 year old, pH = 6-7). We hypothesized that rates of soil C and N cycling would be faster at the nonacidic site because it has a more favorable pH for microbial activity and higher-quality organic matter inputs arising from its greater herbaceous plant production relative to the acidic site. However, in contrast to our hypothesis, in situ soil respiration, as well as respiration, dissolved organic C production, and net N mineralization in laboratory incubations, was greater for soils from the acidic site. Nevertheless, the sites responded similarly to manipulations of temperature and moisture, exhibiting exponential increases in respiration with warming between 4C and 15C but surprisingly little sensitivity to changes in moisture between 300% and 700%. Slower soil organic matter decomposition at the nonacidic site likely results from the stabilization of soil organic matter by high concentrations of calcium. 
43677542|We examined controls of benthic dinitrogen (N) fixation and primary production in oligotrophic lakes in Arctic Alaska, Toolik Field Station (Arctic Long-Term Ecological Research Site). Primary production in many oligotrophic lakes is limited by nitrogen (N), and benthic processes are important for whole-lake function. Oligotrophic lakes are increasingly susceptible to low-level non-point source nutrient inputs, yet the effects on benthic processes are not well understood. This study examines the results from a whole-lake fertilization experiment in which N and P were added at a relatively low level (4 times natural loading) in Redfield ratio to a shallow (3 m) and a deep (20 m) oligotrophic lake. The two lakes showed similar responses to fertilization: benthic primary production and respiration (each 50-150 mg C m day remained the same, and benthic N fixation declined by a factor of three- to fourfold by the second year of treatment (from ~ 0.35 to 0.1 mg N m day). This showed that the response of benthic N fixation was de-coupled from the nutrient limitation status of benthic primary producers and raised questions about the mechanisms, which were examined in separate laboratory experiments. Bioassay experiments in intact cores also showed no response of benthic primary production to added N and P, but contrasted with the whole-lake experiment in that N fixation did not respond to added N, either alone or in conjunction with P. This inconsistency was likely a result of nitrogenase activity of existing N fixers during the relative short duration (9 days) of the bioassay experiment. N fixation showed a positive saturating response when light was increased in the laboratory, but was not statistically related to ambient light level in the field, leading us to conclude that light limitation of the benthos from increasing water-column production was not important. Thus, increased N availability in the sediments through direct uptake likely caused a reduction in N fixation. These results show the capacity of the benthos in oligotrophic systems to buffer the whole-system response to nutrient addition by the apparent ability for significant nutrient uptake and the rapid decline in N fixation in response to added nutrients. Reduced benthic N fixation may be an early indicator of a eutrophication response of lakes which precedes the transition from benthic to water-column-dominated systems.
40603650|Hurricanes cause canopy removal and deposition of pulses of litter to the forest floor. A Canopy Trimming Experiment (CTE) was designed to decouple these two factors, and to investigate the separate abiotic and biotic consequences of hurricane-type damage and monitor recovery processes. As part of this experiment, effects on forest floor invertebrate communities were studied using litterbags. Canopy opening resulted in increased throughfall, soil moisture and light levels, but decreased litter moisture. Of these, only throughfall and soil moisture had returned to control levels 9 months after trimming. Canopy opening was the major determinant of adverse changes in forest floor invertebrate litter communities, by reducing diversity and biomass, irrespective of debris deposition, which played a secondary role. Plots subjected to the most disturbance, with canopy removed and debris added, had the lowest diversity and biomass. These two parameters were higher than control levels when debris was added to plots with an intact canopy, demonstrating that increased nutrient potential or habitat complexity can have a beneficial effect, but only if the abiotic conditions are suitable. Animal abundance remained similar over all treatments, because individual taxa responded differently to canopy trimming. Mites, Collembola, and Psocoptera, all microbiovores feeding mainly on fungal hyphae and spores, responded positively, with higher abundance in trimmed plots, whereas all other taxa, particularly predators and larger detritivores, declined in relative abundance. Litterbag mesh size and litter type had only minor effects on communities, and canopy trimming and debris deposition explained most variation between sites. Effects of trimming on diversity, biomass, and abundance of some invertebrate taxa were still seen when observations finished and canopy closure was complete at 19 months. This suggests that disturbance has a long-lasting effect on litter communities and may, therefore, delay detrital processing, depending on the severity of canopy damage and rate of regrowth.
3658830|In all ecosystems, bacteria are the most numerous organisms and through them flows a large fraction of annual primary production. In the past decade we have learned a great deal about some of the factors that regulate bacteria and their activities, and how these activities, in turn, alter ecosystem-level processes. Here I review three areas in which recent progress has been made with particular reference to pelagic ecosystems: the problem of bacterial cell dormancy; the effect of solar radiation on organic matter lability; and, the maintenance of net heterotrophy. In a system in which grazing is the major source of mortality for bacteria, bacterial cell dormancy is something of a paradox. I argue that the degree to which bacteria are grazed by flagellates (highly selective grazers) versus other grazers (cladocerans, bivalves) may explain the degree and variation in the proportion of active cells which recent evidence shows to be large. Another factor affecting bacterial activity that has come to the fore in recent years is solar radiation. Irradiation, especially in the ultra-violet range has long been thought of as simply deleterious to some bacteria. A wealth of newer evidence shows that refractory dissolved organic compounds may be converted into microbially labile compounds by solar radiation in several wavebands. This interaction between irradiation and organic matter (photolysis) may explain, in part, how dissolved organic carbon (C) may be refractory in the dark environment of the soil but become labile in the illumunated surface waters of lakes or rivers. The newer evidence shows that aquatic ecosystems, at least oligotrophic ones, are significantly subsidized by terrestrially-produced organic matter. I review here multiple lines of evidence that suggest that freshwater ecosystems are predominantly systems which respire more organic C than they produce by photosynthesis, and are therefore net heterotrophic. While net heterotrophy is an interesting exception for terrestrial ecosystems, it appears to be commonplace for aquatic systems and represents an important linkage between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.
25470429|Wildfire is the major natural agent of disturbance in interior Alaska. We examined the magnitude of human impact on fire by comparing fire regime between individual 1-km grid cells designated for fire suppression with lands where fires are allowed to burn naturally. Two-thirds of interior Alaska has an essentially natural fire regime, with few human ignitions, negligible suppression activity, and many large lightning-caused fires. In the 17% of land that is designated for fire suppression due to its proximity to communities and roads, there was a 50% reduction in the proportion of area burned from 1992-2001, relative to areas without suppression. The remaining 16% of land serves as a buffer, receives some suppression, and has an intermediate fire regime. Even though there were 50 times more fires and the fire season began two months earlier in lands designated for suppression, most of these fires were lit by people and remained small because fires tended to occur at times and places less favorable for fire spread and were more accessible to fire fighters compared to lands not designated for suppression. Even in the absence of fire suppression, human-caused fires were less likely to exceed 400 ha compared to lightning-caused fires. Fire suppression reduced area burned in all fuel types but was somewhat more effective in less flammable (non-forest) vegetation. Alaska's fire policy of focusing suppression efforts on a small proportion of the fire-prone region maximizes the ecological and social benefits associated with fire-dependent ecosystem services, while minimizing the social and ecological costs of suppression. Application of this policy to other areas would require well-informed managers and stakeholders to make difficult decisions about the relative costs and benefits of fire across ecologically and culturally variable landscapes.
27823687|Changes in climate and land use, caused by socioeconomic changes, greenhouse gas emissions, agricultural policies and other factors, are known to affect both natural and managed ecosystems, and will likely impact on the European terrestrial carbon balance during the coming decades. This study presents a comprehensive European Union wide (EU15 plus Norway and Switzerland, EU*) assessment of potential future changes in terrestrial carbon storage considering these effects based on four illustrative IPCC-SRES storylines (A1FI, A2, B1, B2). A process-based land vegetation model (LPJ-DGVM), adapted to include a generic representation of managed ecosystems, is forced with changing fields of land-use patterns from 1901 to 2100 to assess the effect of land-use and cover changes on the terrestrial carbon balance of Europe. The uncertainty in the future carbon balance associated with the choice of a climate change scenario is assessed by forcing LPJ-DGVM with output from four different climate models (GCMs: CGCM2, CSIRO2, HadCM3, PCM2) for the same SRES storyline. Decrease in agricultural areas and afforestation leads to simulated carbon sequestration for all land-use change scenarios with an average net uptake of 1738 Tg C/year between 1990 and 2100, corresponding to 1.92.9% of the EU*s CO2 emissions over the same period. Soil carbon losses resulting from climate warming reduce or even offset carbon sequestration resulting from growth enhancement induced by climate change and increasing atmospheric CO2 concentrations in the second half of the twenty-first century. Differences in future climate change projections among GCMs are the main cause for uncertainty in the cumulative European terrestrial carbon uptake of 4.410.1 Pg C between 1990 and 2100.
27823751|We examined aerobic and anaerobic microbial carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) exchange in peat samples representing different profiles at natural, mined, mined-abandoned, and restored northern peatlands and characterized the nutrient and substrate chemistry and microbial biomass of these soils. Mining and abandonment led to reduced nutrient and substrate availability and occasionally drier conditions in surface peat resulting in a drastic reduction in CO2 and CH4 production, in agreement with previous studies. Owing mainly to wetter conditions, CH4 production and oxidation were faster in restored block-cut than natural sites, whereas in one restored site, increased substrate and nutrient availability led to much more rapid rates of CO2 production. Our work in restored block-cut sites compliments that in vacuum-harvested peatlands undergoing more recent active restoration attempts. The sites we examined covered a large range of soil C substrate quality, nutrient availability, microbial biomass, and microbial activities, allowing us to draw general conclusions about controls on microbial CO2 and CH4 dynamics using stepwise regression analysis among all sites and soil depths. Aerobic and anaerobic decomposition of peat was constrained by organic matter quality, particularly phosphorus (P) and carbon (C) chemistry, and closely linked to the size of the microbial biomass supported by these limiting resources. Methane production was more dominantly controlled by field moisture content (a proxy for anaerobism), even after 20 days of anaerobic laboratory incubation, and to a lesser extent by C substrate availability. As methanogens likely represented only a small proportion of the total microbial biomass, there were no links between total microbial biomass and CH4 production. Methane oxidation was controlled by the same factors influencing CH4 production, leading to the conclusion that CH4 oxidation is primarily controlled by substrate (that is, CH4) availability. Although restoring hydrology similar to natural sites may re-establish CH4 dynamics, there is geographic or site-specific variability in the ability to restore peat decomposition dynamics.
27823674|The streamriparian interface, characterized by a dynamic and complex hydrology, is an important control point for nutrient fluxes and processing between terrestrial and aquatic systems. Predicted alterations in the discharge regime in Mediterranean climate regions make it necessary to understand the effects of abrupt hydrological transition between dry and wet conditions on the transport and fate of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) across the streamriparian interface. In this study, the concentrations and fate of total DOC (TDOC) and a subset of four molecular weight fractions (<1 kDa, 110 kDa, 10100 kDa, >100 kDa) were investigated in stream water and riparian groundwater during autumn of 2003 and 2004. The two study periods were characterized by contrasting antecedent hydrological conditions: the streamflow was interrupted in summer 2003 but was permanent in summer 2004. Comparison of the two study periods indicates that an abrupt drywet hydrological transition amplifies the water exchange across the streamriparian interface and favors retention of up to 57% of the TDOC that flows across the interface. Furthermore, the efficiency of DOC retention across the stream-riparian interface also varies greatly depending on DOC molecular size. More than 70% of DOC fractions higher than 10 kDa were retained, whereas the smaller fraction (less than 1 kDa) was nearly conserved. Consequently, our study helps to clarify the effects of extreme hydrological events on DOC transport in running waters in Mediterranean regions.
3658803|The boundaries between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, known as critical transition zones (CTZ), are dynamic interfaces for fluxes of water, sediment, solutes, and gases. Moreover, they often support unique or diverse biotas. Soils, especially those of riparian zones, have not been recognized as CTZ even though they play a critical role in regulating the hydrologic pathways of infiltration and leaching, or runoff and erosion, which can cumulatively affect biogeochemical processes and human livelihoods at landscape scales. In this review, we show how the processes that regulate hydrologic fluxes across and through soil CTZ are influenced by the activities of soil biota. Our message is fourfold. First, there are a variety of ways in which soil biodiversity, in terms of richness and dominance, can influence hydrological pathways in soil and thus the transfer of materials from terrestrial to aquatic ecosystems. Second, the influence of soil organisms on these hydrological pathways is very much interlinked with other environmental, soil biophysical, and vegetation factors that operate at different spatial and temporal scales. Third, we propose that the influence of soil biodiversity on hydrological pathways is most apparent (or identifiable), relative to other factors, in situations that lead to the dominance of certain organisms, such as larger fauna. Fourth, soils are buffered against environmental change by biophysical properties that have developed over long periods of time. Therefore, the effects of changes in soil biodiversity on hydrological processes at the ecosystem scale might be delayed and become most apparent in the long term.
40603617|In desert ecosystems, microbial activity and associated nutrient cycles are driven primarily by water availability and secondarily by nutrient availability. This is especially apparent in the extremely low productivity cold deserts of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica. In this region, sediments near streams and lakes provide the seasonally wet conditions necessary for microbial activity and nutrient cycling and thus transfer energy to higher organisms. However, aside from a few studies of soil respiration, rates of microbial activity throughout the region remain unexplored. We measured extracellular enzyme activity potentials (alkaline phosphatase, leucine-aminopeptidase, beta-glucosidase, phenol oxidase, and peroxidase) in soils adjacent to lakes and streams, expecting activity to be primarily related to soil water content, as well as time of season and organic matter supply. Phosphatase and beta-glucosidase activities were higher in shoreline than upland soils; however, potential rates were not correlated with soil water content. Instead, soil organic matter, salinity, and pH were the best predictors of microbial activity. Microbial nutrient limitation metrics estimated from extracellular enzyme activity were correlated with pH and salinity and exhibited similar patterns to previously published trends in soil P and N content. Compared to other terrestrial ecosystems, organic matter specific rates for leucine-aminopeptidase and oxidative enzyme activities were high, typical of alkaline desert soils. Phosphatase activity was close to the global mean whereas beta-glucosidase activity was extremely low, which may reflect the lack of vascular plant derived organic matter in the Dry Valleys. In this cold desert ecosystem, water availability promotes microbial activity, and microbial nutrient cycling potentials are related to soil geochemistry.
40928212|Proposed links between biodiversity and ecosystem processes have generated intense interest in the linkage between aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and soil C storage. Quantity and quality of ANPP largely depend on plant functional groups and management practices. In a context of environmental change (that is, land-use and climate) long-term studies of ANPP and functional groups are gaining interest. However, rapid determination of ANPP and functional groups are often limited in time and money, resulting in less than ideal sampling schemes and replications. Nearinfrared reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS) can relieve constraints of labor intensive hand-sorting by providing quick, non-destructive, and quantitative analyses of a range of organic constituents (for example, plant tissues). Here, we investigated the potential of a NIRS method to rapidly predict harvested green aboveground biomass, the proportion of dead material, and simple functional plant traits, necessary to determine ANPP and related ecosystem properties. The issue was investigated for two independent grassland experiments of contrasted long-term field management (high vs. low grazing and N fertilization). Our results show that NIRS analyses are well suited to determine ANPP (12 and 19% error of prediction) and simple plant traits (error 9%) of contrasted treatment of two independent multi-species grasslands. Moreover, we show that calibration may be simplified when compared to commonly used protocols, which offers ecologists enormous analytical power.
41505936|Species are often grouped according to their biological or functional traits to better understand their contribution to ecosystem functioning. However, it is becoming clear that a single species can perform different roles in different habitats. Austrohelice crassa, a burrow-building mud crab shifts its primary bioturbational role to that of a vertical mixer in non-cohesive sediments as frequent burrow collapse greatly enhances sediment reworking. We conducted in situ crab density manipulations in two sediment environments (a non-cohesive sand and a cohesive muddy-sand) to examine if the contextspecific functional roles were linked to changes in solute fluxes across the sediment-water interface. Across both habitats, we show that A. crassa regulated nutrient cycling, creating strong density driven effects on solute exchanges. Increasing crab density increased sediment O demand and the flux of NH from the sediment, indicating much of the response was physiologically driven. Clear interactions between A. crassa and microphytobenthos were also detected in both habitats. Despite lowering microphyte standing stock through deposit feeding, A. crassa increased benthic primary production per unit of chlorophyll a. Our experiment also revealed important context-specific differences, most notably for NH fluxes, which were higher where burrows and their associated microbial communities were most stable (muddy-sand). This study highlights the need to integrate interactions between organism behavior and habitat type into functional group studies to broaden conceptual frameworks and avoid oversimplification of highly complex organism-sediment interactions.
40603430|Ecologists need to develop tools that allow characterization of vegetation condition over scales that are pertinent to species' persistence and appropriate for management actions. Our study shows that stand condition can be mapped accurately over the floodplain of a major river system (ca 100,000 ha of forest over 1600 km of river)the Murray River in southeastern Australia. It demonstrates the value of using quantitative ground surveys in conjunction with remotely sensed data to model vegetation condition over very large spatial domains. A comparison of four modelling methods found that stand condition was best modelled using the multivariate adaptive regression spline (MARS) method (R = 0.85), although there was little difference among the methods (R = 0.770.85). However, a subsequent validation survey of condition at new locations showed that use of artificial neural networks had substantially higher predictive power (R = 0.78) than the MARS model (R = 0.28). This discrepancy demonstrates the value of using several modelling approaches to determine relationships among vegetation responses and environmental variables, and stresses the importance of validating ecological models with predictive surveys conducted after model building. The artificial neural network was used to produce a stand condition map for the whole floodplain, which predicted that only 30% of the area containing Eucalyptus camaldulensis stands is currently in good condition. There is a downstream decline in stand condition, which is related to more extreme declines in flooding, due to water harvesting, and drier climate found in the Lower Murray region. Rigorous surveying and modelling approaches, such as those used here, are necessary if vegetation health is to be effectively monitored and managed.
3658668| Nitrogen controls on fine root substrate quality (that is, nitrogen and carbon-fraction concentrations) were assessed using nitrogen availability gradients in the Harvard Forest chronic nitrogen addition plots, University of Wisconsin Arboretum, Blackhawk Island, Wisconsin, and New England spruce-fir transect. The 27 study sites encompassed within these four areas collectively represented a wide range of nitrogen availability (both quantity and form), soil types, species composition, aboveground net primary production, and climatic regimes. Changes in fine root substrate quality among sites were most frequently and strongly correlated with nitrate availability. For the combined data set, fine root nitrogen concentration increased (adjusted R
23253740|Zooplankton support a variety of important ecosystem processes in lakes but our understanding of how these organisms respond to ongoing climate change is superficial. Aquatic ecosystems have been exposed to substantial climate warming in the last century, and this trend is certain to continue, especially in northern latitudes. We analyzed a long time series of a variety of physical attributes of Lake Aleknagik, southwest Alaska, to quantify warming trends between 1963 and 2009, and to assess zooplankton community responses to variation in thermal conditions. Our analyses demonstrate clear trends toward earlier spring ice break-up, increases in average epilimnetic temperatures and an 18.5% increase in summer epilimnetic degree days since 1963. We estimated the magnitude and direction of changes in zooplankton production and end of season densities in response to changes in thermal environment, then explored whether the climate-driven responses in production are common in five large lakes that are distributed across a coastalinterior landscape gradient. Although we detected no clear directional changes in zooplankton densities or production rates, there were clear correlations between these variables and interannual variation in thermal conditions. The positive effects of earlier spring ice break-up and increase in summer degree days were strongest on the production and density responses of Daphnia and Bosmina, and the lagged effect of temperature was important and negative only for calanoid copepods. There was a negative effect of sockeye escapement to Lake Aleknagik in the previous year on all taxa. There were lake-specific effects of changes in the thermal environment on almost all taxa and small gradients in the magnitude of responses across the landscape, but no systematic patterns of landscape control.
25053823|Exotic insect pests may strongly disrupt forest ecosystems and trigger major shifts in nutrient cycling, structure, and composition. We examined the relationship between these diverse effects for the hemlock woolly adelgid (HWA, Adelges tsugae Annand) in New England forests by studying its impacts on local canopy processes in stands differing in infestation levels and linking these impacts to shifts in canopy nutrient cycling and stand and landscape effects. HWA initiated major changes in canopy biomass and distribution. Whereas uninfested trees exhibit a significant decline in canopy biomass from the center to the periphery and a positive correlation between total needle litter and estimated biomass, infested trees have significantly less total canopy biomass, produce less new foliage, shed relatively more needles, and exhibit no correlation between litter and canopy biomass. Foliar N content of infested trees was 20%-40% higher than reference trees, with the strongest increase in young foliage supporting the highest densities of HWA. Foliar %C was unaffected by HWA or foliar age. Epiphytic microorganisms on hemlock needles exhibited little variation in abundance within canopies, but colony-forming units of bacteria, yeast, and filamentous fungi were 2-3 orders of magnitude more abundant on medium and heavily infested than uninfested trees. Throughfall chemistry, quantity, and spatial pattern were strongly altered by HWA. Throughfall exhibits a strong gradient beneath uninfested trees, decreasing in volumes from the canopy periphery to the trunk by more than 45%. The amount of throughfall beneath infested trees exhibits no spatial pattern, reaches 80%-90% of the bulk precipitation, and is characterized by significantly higher concentrations of nitrogen compounds, dissolved organic carbon, and cations. Across the southern New England landscape there is a strong south-to-north gradient of decreasing hemlock tree and sapling mortality and understory compositional change that corresponds to the duration of infestation. Regionally, black birch (Betula lenta L.) is profiting most from hemlock decline by significantly increasing in density and cover. These findings suggest that it is necessary to study the connections between fast/small-scale processes such as changes in nutrient cycling in tree canopies and slow/integrative processes like shifts in biogeochemieal cycling and compositional changes at forest stands and landscapes to better understand the effects of an exotic pest species like HWA on forest ecosystem structure and function.
25470411|The intermediate disturbance hypothesis (IDH) predicts a hump-shaped relationship between regional diversity and the disturbance rate. We tested the IDH for the megabenthos inhabiting the Antarctic sea floor, which is disturbed by iceberg scouring. We used models based on the empirical knowledge of succession to calculate the IDH curve for this system and to extrapolate the presently observable range of the IDH curve to higher and lower disturbance rates. Although the hump-shaped relationship has been found for a purely theoretical (extremely large) disturbance range, within the feasible disturbance range (assumed as realistic in the Antarctic region under climate change), the regional diversity of successional stages due to iceberg scouring strongly decreases with lower disturbance rates but levels off only slowly with higher disturbance rates. The reason is the unevenness in the lifetimes of the successional stages, in that early stages are short-lived whereas late stages are long-lived. With such unevenness, increasing disturbances support the early stages without jeopardizing the later ones. Additionally, we converted this regional diversity of stages to the regional diversity of taxa using a transformation formula based on empirical knowledge of the number and mean abundance of taxa in the particular stages. Our results suggest that a decrease in iceberg scouring due to climate change would be more detrimental to the diversity of the Antarctic megabenthos than an increase.
3658650|Recently, it was hypothesized that ectomycorrhizas hyphae are involved in mineral tunneling. We evaluated the role of ectomycorrhizas in mineral weathering and the ecosystem influx of basic cations by correlating mineral tunnel density to ectomycorrhizas density in two forest productivity gradients. The gradients, two gentle slopes in northern Sweden, are the result of groundwater movement and are characterized by reduced productivity up-slope due to lower nitrogen availability. As expected, ectomycorrhizas density in the O horizon was higher upslope, where nitrogen availability was lower and where the vegetation was dominated by ectomycorrhizas plant species. We consistently found that tunnel formation in mineral grains was more intense in nutrient-poor sites, indicating a higher contribution of fungi to ecosystem influx of potassium and calcium. ectomycorrhizas density was positively correlated with feldspar tunnel density in the upper 2 cm of the E horizon. This suggests that ectomycorrhizas are involved in mineral tunneling. We discuss the possible involvement of ericoid mycorrhizas and saprotrophic fungi in feldspar tunneling and the role of the weathering status of mineral grains as additional factors controlling mineral funneling.
3658706|Historical and ecological data from north-central Massachusetts suggest that widespread and intensive human disturbance after European settlement led to a shift in forest composition and obscured regional patterns of species abundance. A paleoecological approach was required to place recent forest dynamics in a long-term context. Pollen and charcoal data from 11 small lakes in north-central Massachusetts were used to reconstruct local vegetation dynamics and fire histories across the region over the past 1000 years. The sites are located across an environmental gradient. Paleoecological data indicate that prior to European settlement, there was regional variation in forest composition corresponding to differences in climate, substrate, and fire regime. Oak, chestnut, and hickory were abundant at low elevations, whereas hemlock, beech, sugar maple, and yellow birch were common at high elevations. Fire appears to have been more frequent and/or intense at lower elevations, maintaining high abundances of oak, and archaeological data suggest Native American populations were greater in these areas. A change in forest composition at higher elevations, around 550 years before present, may be related to the Little Ice Age (a period of variable climate), fire, and/or activity by Native Americans, and led to regional convergence in forest composition. After European settlement, forest composition changed markedly in response to human disturbance and there was a sharp increase in rates of vegetation change. Regional patterns were obscured further, leading to homogenization of broad-scale forest composition. There is no indication from the pollen data that forests are returning to pre-European settlement forest composition, and rates of vegetation change remain high, reflecting continuing disturbance on the landscape, despite regional reforestation.
25053811|The long-range outlook for the world's ecosystems depends on the course taken by global development in the coming decades. Current global trends and ecological dynamics are consistent with very different outcomes, defined by alternative assumptions about the technological, economic, demographic, geopolitical, and social aspects of development and the ways in which institutions, personal and public values, and natural systems may be expected to respond to historically novel stressors. Recent advances in scenario analysis have addressed the dual methodological challenge of exploring these uncertainties in an organized way and determining what would be needed to make the transition to sustainability. This paper reviews global scenario research, setting current efforts in a historical context. It focuses on seven recent studies that are comprehensive, regionally disaggregated, and narratively rich-and thus of greatest relevance to the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA). It summarizes their social visions and the level of quantitative detail used in these exercises. Taken together, this suite of global scenario studies provides a useful platform for the MA by offering insight into the complex factors that drive ecosystem change, estimating the magnitude of regional pressures on ecosystems, sounding the alert on critical uncertainties that could undermine sustainable development, and understanding the importance of institutions and values. But these studies are only a point of departure. The integration of changing ecosystem conditions into global development scenarios, as both effects and causes, is at the cutting edge of scenario analysis. The paper concludes by identifying directions for this research program and suggesting ways that the MA can contribute to this effort.
25470343|Understanding the interactions between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems remains an important research focus in ecology. In arid landscapes, catchments are drained by a channel continuum that represents a potentially important driver of ecological pattern and process in the surrounding terrestrial environment. To better understand the role of drainage networks in arid landscapes, we determined how stream size influences the structure and productivity of riparian vegetation, and the accumulation of organic matter (OM) in soils beneath plants in an upper Sonoran Desert basin. Canopy volume of velvet mesquite (Prosopis velutina), as well as overall plant cover, increased along lateral upland-riparian gradients, and among riparian zones adjacent to increasingly larger streams. Foliar C signatures for P. velutina suggested that landscape patterns in vegetation structure reflect increases in water availability along this arid stream continuum. Leaf litter and annual grass biomass production both increased with canopy volume, and total aboveground litter production ranged from 137 g m y in upland habitat to 446 g m y in the riparian zone of the perennial stream. OM accumulation in soils beneath P. velutina increased with canopy volume across a broad range of drainage sizes; however, in the riparian zone of larger streams, flooding further modified patterns of OM storage. Drainage networks represent important determinants of vegetation structure and function in upper Sonoran Desert basins, and the extent to which streams act as sources of plant-available water and/or agents of fluvial disturbance has implications for material storage in arid soils.
41505946|The effect of river water quality, its inflow rate, and temperature on planktonic food web composition and activities were studied in the eutrophic Sau Reservoir (Catalonia, NE Spain). We analyzed 8 longitudinal transects conducted between July 1996 and April 1999 covering a wide range of variability in both seasonal and spatial circulation patterns. To compare objectively the biological longitudinal gradients under seasonally fluctuating water levels and different types of water circulation patterns, we applied a model based on the relative distance of a sampling station from the river inflow. Even under different hydrological scenarios, the model was able to characterize epilimnetic food chain successions and locations of peaks of bacteria, heterotrophic nanoflagellates, ciliates, phytoplankton, and Zooplankton along the longitudinal gradient. The amplitude of microbial peaks was directly related to the proportion of nutrient and organic carbon rich river water that mixed into the reservoir epilimnion. Enhanced abundances and activities of microbes were detected in spring and summer periods, mainly during events of river water overflow when a large proportion of the river was directly mixed into the epilimnion. Thus, the relative input of river water is suggested to be a useful predictor of the amplitude of the development of the epilimnetic microbial food webs in highly loaded canyon-shaped reservoirs. These results may have important implications in the context of global change in Mediterranean regions, where expected reductions in runoff may profoundly affect river water circulation patterns in reservoirs and hence organic carbon cycling in these ecosystems.
3658815|This paper provides the first steps toward a regional-scale analysis of carbon (C) budgets. We explore the ability of the ecosystem model BIOME-BGC to estimate the daily and annual C dynamics of four European coniferous forests and shifts in these dynamics in response to changing environmental conditions. We estimate uncertainties in the model results that arise from incomplete knowledge of site management history (for example, successional stage of forest). These uncertainties are especially relevant in regional-scale simulations, because this type of information is difficult to obtain. Although the model predicted daily C and water fluxes reasonably well at all sites, it seemed to have a better predictive capacity for the photosynthesis-related processes than for respiration. Leaf area index (LAI) was modeled accurately at two sites but overestimated at two others (as a result of poor long-term climate drivers and uncertainties in model parameterization). The overestimation of LAI (and consequently gross photosynthetic production (GPP)), in combination with reasonable estimates of the daily net ecosystem productivity (NEP) of those forests, also illustrates the problem with modeled respiration. The model results suggests that all four European forests have been net sinks of C at the rate of
23328060|The impacts of exotic insects and pathogens on forest ecosystems are increasingly recognized, yet the factors influencing the magnitude of effects remain poorly understood. Eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) exerts strong control on nitrogen (N) dynamics, and its loss due to infestation by the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae) is expected to decrease N retention in impacted stands. We evaluated the potential for site variation in N availability to influence the magnitude of effects of hemlock decline on N dynamics in mixed hardwood stands. We measured N pools and fluxes at three elevations (low, mid, high) subjected to increasing atmospheric N deposition where hemlock was declining or absent (as reference), in western North Carolina. Nitrogen pools and fluxes varied substantially with elevation and increasing N availability. Total forest floor and mineral soil N increased (P < 0.0001, P = 0.0017, resp.) and forest floor and soil carbon (C) to N ratio decreased with elevation (P < 0.0001, P = 0.0123, resp.), suggesting that these high elevation pools are accumulating available N. Contrary to expectations, subsurface leaching of inorganic N was minimal overall (<1 kg ha -1 9 months -1 ), and was not higher in stands with hemlock mortality. Mean subsurface flux was 0.16  0.04 (SE) (kg N ha -1 100 days -1 ) in reference and 0.17  0.05 (kg N ha -1 100 days -1 ) in declining hemlock stands. Moreover, although subsurface N flux increased with N availability in reference stands, there was no relationship between N availability and flux in stands experiencing hemlock decline. Higher foliar N and observed increases in the growth of hardwood species in high elevation stands suggest that hemlock decline has stimulated N uptake and growth by healthy vegetation within this mixed forest, and may contribute to decoupling the relationship between N deposition and ecosystem N flux.
25622906|Large herbivores can change ecosystem functioning by impacting plant diversity. However, although such impacts are expected to be scale-dependent in ecosystems with wide-roaming ungulates, scaling issues rarely enter empirical assessments. We here test the hypothesis that the impact of increased reindeer abundance on plant diversity in alpine tundra is scale-dependent. Based on potentially high productivity of the focal habitat units and hence the possibility of positive grazer impacts on plant diversity we predicted higher  and  diversity at the habitat scale where reindeer densities are high. We also explored whether there were differences in diversity patterns at larger scales, including the scale of reindeer management districts. We estimated grazing disturbance as high versus low reindeer density in selected districts (a total extent of 7421 km) of Northern Norway where reindeer-induced vegetation shifts are debated. We focus on dominance patterns because they can quantify the vegetation state and thus performed additive partitioning of Simpson diversity on multiple scales assessing also species' contributions to diversity. Contrary to our predictions, we found only weak scale-dependent effects of reindeer grazing on plant diversity. Under high reindeer densities there was evidence for a landscape-scale homogenization of the vegetation, but the predicted  and  diversity increases at the habitat scale were not found. Consistently through all scales considered, four shrub species contributed the most to plant diversity. These results contradict the idea that reindeer at high stocking densities induce shifts in plant species dominance in productive habitats. We conclude that context-dependencies such as spatial scales of management units and habitat types need to be explicitly considered in evaluations of the impacts of large ungulates on plant diversity.
23325688|A detailed diatom record from Lake Klksjn, west-central Sweden, reveals two periods of abrupt ecological change correlative with the 8.2 ka cooling event. Using a combination of abrupt step changes and piece-wise linear regressions, the diatom data were analyzed for change points over time, and two sudden and large events that are described as regime shifts were detected. During the first event at c. 8040 cal. y BP, a doubling in diatom biomass took place over 510 years. This increase in primary productivity can be connected to an erosion event in the catchment that resulted in an abrupt increase in nutrient supply to the lake. The second event was characterized by a substantial shift within the planktonic diatom community from taxa indicative of colder conditions to those indicating warm over 510 years at c. 7850 cal. y BP. This event was superimposed on a successive change from periphytic to planktonic diatom dominance over a 250-year period and a gradual diversification of the periphytic community that spanned c. 150 years. Rapid climate warming following the 8.2 ka event likely caused these changes and both regime shifts are examples of externally driven abrupt ecological change. This study demonstrates that it is possible to detect, quantify and test for regime shifts in paleoecological data, and it highlights the need for high sampling resolution and precise chronological control. High-resolution paleoecological reconstructions of ecological regime shifts in response to climate change can provide useful analogues of future changes in ecosystem structure and functioning.
40928226|Species' impacts on primary production can have strong ecological consequences. In freshwater ecosystems, Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) may influence stream periphyton through substrate disturbance during spawning and nutrient subsidies from senescent adults. The shape of relationships between the abundance of spawning salmon and stream periphyton, as well as interactions with environmental variables, are incompletely understood and may differ across the geographic range of salmon. We examined these relationships across 24 sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) spawning streams in north-central British Columbia, Canada. The influence of salmon abundance and environmental variables (temperature, light, dissolved nutrients, water velocity, watershed size, and invertebrate grazer abundance) on post-spawning periphyton abundance and nitrogen stable isotope signatures, which can indicate the uptake of salmon nitrogen, was evaluated using linear regression models and Akaike Information Criterion. Periphyton nitrogen stable isotope signatures were best described by a positive log-linear relationship with an upstream salmon abundance metric that includes salmon from earlier years. This suggests the presence of a nutrient legacy. In contrast, periphyton abundance was negatively related to the spawning-year salmon density, which likely results from substrate disturbance during spawning, and positively related to dissolved soluble reactive phosphorus prior to spawning, which may indicate phosphorus limitation in the streams. These results suggest that enrichment from salmon nutrients does not always translate into elevated periphyton abundance. This underscores the need to directly assess the outcome of salmon impacts on streams rather than extrapolating from stable isotope evidence for the incorporation of salmon nutrients into food webs.
3658604|Northeastern Costa Rica is a mosaic of primary and secondary forests, tree plantations, pastures, and cash crops. Many studies have quantified the effects of one type of land-use transition (for example, deforestation or reforestation) on soil properties such as organic carbon (C) storage, but few have compared different land-use transitions simultaneously. We can best understand the effects of land-use change on regional and global ecosystem processes by considering all of the land-use transitions that occur in a landscape. In this study, I examined the changes in total soil C and nitrogen (N) pools (to 0.3 m) that have accompanied different land-use transitions in a 140,000-ha region in northeastern Costa Rica. I paired sites that had similar topography and soils but differed in recent land-use history. The following land-use transitions were represented: 12 conversions of primary forests to banana plantations, 15 conversions of pastures to cash crops, and four conversions of pastures to Vochysia guatemalensis tree plantations. The conversion of forests to bananas decreases soil C concentrations and inventories
43677528|Increased demand for food due to the rapidly growing human population has led to extensive conversion of native steppes at the margins of oases in arid lands of northwest China into intensively managed farmlands. However, the consequences of this land-use change for soil microarthropod biodiversity and ecosystem functioning remain unknown. Here we assessed how conversion of a native steppe to irrigated farmlands of different ages affects the abundance and composition of soil microarthropods and how changes in soil microarthropod biodiversity could scale up to influence soil carbon and nitrogen stocks. We sampled microarin soil carbon and nitrogen stocks due to conversion of native steppe to farmlands followed similar patterns to soil micro-arthropod biodiversity, but the greater storage of DOC, MBC, TN, IN, and MBN occurred in the 90-year-old farmland. Our results suggest that soil microarthropod communities are affected positively by native steppe conversion to farmland and farmland age, and that thropod communities over two growing seasons from native steppes and cultivated soils of a 27-year-old irrigated farmland and a 90-year-old irrigated farmland, both of which were converted from the native steppe. Topsoil properties and bulk and labile pools of carbon and nitrogen, including soil organic carbon, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), microbial biomass carbon (MBC), total nitrogen (TN), inorganic nitrogen (IN), and microbial biomass nitrogen (MBN), were also measured. The conversion of native steppe to either of the two farmlands significantly increased the abundance and taxa richness of three taxonomic groups (mites, collembolans, and others) and four trophic groups (herbivores, predators, detritivores, and fungivores); this effect was greater in the 90-year-old farmland for the abundance of all taxonomic and trophic groups except for herbivores and was similar between the two farmlands for the richness of all taxonomic and trophic groups. Taxonomic and trophic composition of the microarthropod community showed strong shifts in response to conversion of native steppe to either of the two farmlands. Compositional changes were largely mediated by changes in soil environments. Changes increased microarthropod biodiversity significantly improved the ability of soils to retain carbon and nitrogen.
40296286|The dominant processes determining biological structure in lakes at millennial timescales are complex. In this study, we used a multi-proxy approach to determine the relative importance of in-lake versus indirect processes on the Holocene development of an oligotrophic lake in SW Greenland (66.99N, 50.97W). A C and Pb-dated sediment core covering approximately 8500 years BP was analyzed for organic-inorganic carbon content, pigments, diatoms, chironomids, cladocerans, and stable isotopes ( C, O). Relationships among the different proxies and a number of independent controlling variables (Holocene temperature, an isotope-inferred cooling period, and immigration of Betula nana into the catchment) were explored using redundancy analysis (RDA) independent of time. The main ecological trajectories in the lake biota were captured by ordination first axis sample scores (18-32% variance explained). The importance of the arrival of Betula (ca. 6500 years BP) into the catchment was indicated by a series of partial-constrained ordinations, uniquely explaining 12-17% of the variance in chironomids and up to 9% in pigments. Climate influences on lake biota were strongest during a short-lived cooling period (identified by altered stable isotopes) early in the development of the lake when all proxies changed rapidly, although only chironomids had a unique component (8% in a partial-RDA) explained by the cooling event. Holocene climate explained less variance than either catchment changes or biotic relationships. The sediment record at this site indicates the importance of catchment factors for lake development, the complexity of community trends even in relatively simple systems (invertebrates are the top predators in the lake) and the challenges of deriving palaeoclimate inferences from sediment records in low-Arctic freshwater lakes.
40928237|We determined the response of terrestrial methane (CH) uptake to 4 years of full-factorial manipulations of precipitation and temperature in four ecosystems along a 50 km warm and dry to cold and wet climatic gradient (desert grassland, pinyon-juniper woodland, ponderosa pine forest, and mixed conifer forest). Our goals were to determine whether ecosystem-specific, intraannual, and interactive responses to altered precipitation and warming are quantitatively important. Passive collectors and interceptors increased (+50% per event) and reduced (-30% per event) the quantity of precipitation delivered to experimental plantsoil mesocosms, and downward transfer along the elevation gradient warmed mesocosms by 1.8C on average. Methane uptake in the colder and wetter ecosystems along the gradient decreased with increasing precipitation, especially during the wet season. The warmer and drier ecosystems, however, responded more strongly to warming, exhibiting less CH uptake with increasing temperature. We found no interaction between altered precipitation and warming in any ecosystem. Soil CH consumption in the laboratory was a strong predictor of ecosystem differences in field CH consumption, but was a poor predictor of the effects of climatic change observed in the field. Based on our results, future climate scenarios that are wet and warm will cause the largest reduction in terrestrial CH uptake across ecosystem types.
23253691|Long-term responses of terrestrial ecosystems to the combined effects of warming and elevated CO 2 (eCO 2 ) will likely be regulated by N availability. The stock of soil N determines availability for organisms, but also influences loss to the atmosphere or groundwater. eCO 2 and warming can elicit changes in soil N via direct effects on microbial and plant activity, or indirectly, via soil moisture. Detangling the interplay of direct- and moisture-mediated impacts on soil N and the role of organisms in controlling soil N will improve predictions of ecosystem-level responses. We followed individual soil N pools over two growing seasons in a semiarid temperate grassland, at the Prairie Heating and CO 2 Enrichment experiment. We evaluated relationships of N pools with environmental factors and explored the role of plants by assessing plant biomass, plant N, and plant inputs to soil. We also assessed N forms in plots with and without vegetation to remove plant-mediated effects. Our study demonstrated that the effects of warming and eCO 2 are highly dependent on individual N form and on year. In this water-constrained grassland, eCO 2 , warming and their combination appear to impact soil N pools through a complex combination of direct- and moisture-mediated effects. eCO 2 decreased NO 3 - but had neutral to positive effects on NH4+ and dissolved organic N (DON), particularly in a wet year. Warming increased NO 3 - availability due to a combination of indirect drying and direct temperature-driven effects. Warming also increased DON only in vegetated plots, suggesting plant mediation. Our results suggest that impacts of combined eCO 2 and warming are not always equivalent for plant and soil pools; although warming can help offset the decrease in NO 3 - availability for plants under eCO 2 , the NO 3 - pool in soil is mainly driven by the negative effects of eCO 2 .
41507791|We used structured expert judgment and economic analysis to quantify annual impacts on ecosystem services in the Great Lakes, North America of nonindigenous aquatic species introduced by ocean-going ships. For the US waters, median damages aggregated across multiple ecosystem services were $138 million per year, and there is a 5% chance that for sportfishing alone losses exceeded $800 million annually. Plausible scenarios of future damages in the US waters alone were similar in magnitude to the binational benefits of ocean-going shipping in the Great Lakes, suggesting more serious consideration is warranted for policy options to reduce the risk of future invasions via the St. Lawrence Seaway.
3658633|Chemical changes along headwater streams at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire suggest that important differences exist in biogeochemical cycles along an altitudinal gradient within small watershed ecosystems. Using data collected during the period 1982-92, we have constructed element budgets [Ca, Mg, K, Na, Si, Al, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), S, and N] for three subcatchments within watershed 6, a forested watershed last logged around 1917-20. The biogeochemistry of the high-elevation spruce-fir-white birch subcatchment was dominated by processes involving naturally occuring organic compounds. Stream water and soil solutions in this zone had elevated concentrations of organic acidity, DOC, and organically bound monomeric aluminum
40296288|Mangrove forests cover large areas of tropical and subtropical coastlines. They provide a wide range of ecosystem services that includes carbon storage in above-and below ground biomass and in soils. Carbon dioxide (CO) emissions from soil, or soil respiration is important in the global carbon budget and is sensitive to increasing global temperature. To understand the magnitude of mangrove soil respiration and the influence of forest structure and temperature on the variation in mangrove soil respiration I assessed soil respiration at eleven mangrove sites, ranging from latitude 27N to 37S. Mangrove soil respiration was similar to those observed for terrestrial forest soils. Soil respiration was correlated with leaf area index (LAI) and aboveground net primary production (litterfall), which should aid scaling up to regional and global estimates of soil respiration. Using a carbon balance model, total belowground carbon allocation (TBCA) per unit litterfall was similar in tall mangrove forests as observed in terrestrial forests, but inscrub mangrove forests TBCA per unit litter fall was greater than in terrestrial forests, suggesting mangroves allocate a large proportion of their fixed carbon below ground under unfavorable environmental conditions. The response of soil respiration to soil temperature was not a linear function of temperature. At temperatures below 26C Q10 of mangrove soil respiration was 2.6, similar to that reported for terrestrial forest soils. However in scrub forests soil respiration declined with increasing soil temperature, largely because of reduced canopy cover and enhanced activity of photosynthetic benthic microbial communities.
23253692|Ecohydrologic models are a key tool in understanding plantwater interactions and their vulnerability to environmental change. Although implications of uncertainty in these models are often assessed within a strictly hydrologic context (for example, runoff modeling), the implications of uncertainty for estimation of vegetation water use are less frequently considered. We assess the influence of commonly used model parameters and inputs on predictions of catchment-scale evapotranspiration (ET) and runoff. By clarifying the implications of uncertainty, we identify strategies for insuring that the quality of data used to drive models is considered in interpretation of model predictions. Our assessment also provides insight into unique features of semi-arid, urbanizing watersheds that shape ET patterns. We consider four sources of uncertainty: soil parameters, irrigation inputs, and spatial extrapolation of both point precipitation and air temperature for an urbanizing, semi-arid coastal catchment in Santa Barbara, CA. Our results highlight a seasonal transition from soil parameters to irrigation inputs as key controls on ET. Both ET and runoff show substantial sensitivity to uncertainty in soil parameters, even after parameters have been calibrated against observed streamflow. Sensitivity to uncertainty in precipitation manifested primarily in winter runoff predictions, whereas sensitivity to irrigation manifested exclusively in modeled summer ET. Neither ET nor runoff was highly sensitive to uncertainty in spatial interpolation of temperature. Results argue that efforts to improve ecohydrologic modeling of vegetation water use and associated water-limited ecological processes in these semi-arid regions should focus on improving estimates of anthropogenic outdoor water use and explicit accounting of soil parameter uncertainty.
40603422|We investigate interactions between successive naturally occurring fires, and assess to what extent the environments in which fires burn influence these interactions. Using mapped fire perimeters and satellite-based estimates of post-fire effects (referred to hereafter as fire severity) for 19 fires burning relatively freely over a 31 -year period, we demonstrate that fire as a landscape process can exhibit self-limiting characteristics in an upper elevation Sierra Nevada mixed conifer forest. We use the term ' self-limiting' to refer to recurring fire as a process over time (that is, fire regime) consuming fuel and ultimately constraining the spatial extent and lessening fire-induced effects of subsequent fires. When the amount of time between successive adjacent fires is under 9 years, and when fire weather is not extreme (burning index < 34.9), the probability of the latter fire burning into the previous fire area is extremely low. Analysis of fire severity data by 10-year periods revealed a fair degree of stability in the proportion of area burned among fire severity classes (unchanged, low, moderate, high). This is in contrast to a recent study demonstrating increasing high-severity burning throughout the Sierra Nevada from 1984 to 2006, which suggests freely burning fires over time in upper elevation Sierra Nevada mixed conifer forests can regulate fire-induced effects across the landscape. This information can help managers better anticipate short-and long-term effects of allowing naturally ignited fires to burn, and ultimately, improve their ability to implement Wildland Fire Use programs in similar forest types.
3658600|In the Sierra Nevada, distributions of forest tree species are largely controlled by the soil-moisture balance. Changes in temperature or precipitation as a result of increased greenhouse gas concentrations could lead to changes in species distributions. In addition, climatic change could increase the frequency and severity of wildfires. We used a forest gap model developed for Sierra Nevada forests to investigate the potential sensitivity of these forests to climatic change, including a changing fire regime. Fuel moisture influences the fire regime and couples fire to climate. Fires are also affected by fuel loads, which accumulate according to forest structure and composition. These model features were used to investigate the complex interactions between climate, fire, and forest dynamics. Eight hypothetical climate-change scenarios were simulated, including two general circulation model (GCM) predictions of a 2 CO
3658722|The Great Plains of the United States is characterized by a large west-east gradient in annual precipitation and a similar large north-south gradient in annual temperature. Native grasslands and winter wheat are found over a large portion of the precipitation and temperature gradients. In this article, we use long-term data to analyze the differences in the patterns in aboveground net primary production and precipitation-use efficiency between wheat and native grassland ecosystems in the central portion of Great Plains, and their relationships to potential water availability (precipitation). Aboveground net primary production of native grasslands shows a large response to precipitation. Aboveground net primary production of winter wheat has a smaller response to changing precipitation. Annual precipitation-use efficiency of native grasslands is unaffected by increases in average annual precipitation, but precipitation-use efficiency of summer-fallow wheat ecosystems decreases substantially with increased average precipitation. Our results suggest that in the wetter portion of the central Great Plains, summer-fallow wheat management is relatively inefficient, because increased water availability results in diminishing returns. Comparisons with data from continuously cropped wheat confirmed this result. Shifts across the region to continuous cropping of wheat potentially could have significant impacts on regional wheat yield, carbon balance, and economic status.
3658724|This article explores the pattern of land use in China to understand the relationships between land use and factors that can be used to predict it. Such understanding is important for development of comprehensive models of land-use dynamics. Correlation and regression analyses are used to identify the most important explanatory variables from a large set of factors generally considered important in predicting the distribution of land use. We found that the spatial distribution of all land-use types in China is best described by an integrated set of biophysical and socioeconomic factors. Specific attention is given to the influence of the scale of analysis on study results. Both data resolution and the extent of the study area influence the discovered relationships. Relationships obtained at a certain scale of analysis therefore may not be directly applied at other scales or in other areas. The relevance of the systematic and quantitative characterization of the land-use patterns in China for the parameterization of spatially explicit land-use models is discussed.
3658960|We propose an operational definition of spatial structure in the oceanic ecosystem; it is equivalent to the large-scale, horizontal distribution of the dominant ecophysiological rate parameters for the questions of interest. In an important, particular case, the relevant rate parameters are those that characterize autotrophic production. In the ocean, these parameters are believed to be distributed in a manner that is not smoothly continuous. Rather, they seem to have a piecewise continuous distribution. This leads to a requirement to partition the ocean into a suite of provinces where the boundaries between the provinces mark the locations of abrupt changes in the magnitudes of the rate parameters. The area covered by a particular province represents an area of common physical forcing, insofar as the forcing is relevant to autotrophic production. The boundaries are taken to be elastic rather than fixed, such that they can respond to variations in forcing. At any given time, the boundaries can be located with the aid of remotely sensed imagery, especially ocean-color imagery.
25470327|Non-native brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) were eradicated from alpine Bighorn Lake, Alberta, Canada, to test whether strong cascading trophic interactions (CTI) can occur in oligotrophic, high seston C:P, species-poor lakes. Fishless alpine Pipit Lake was used as a reference ecosystem. Bighorn Lake zooplankton biomass increased from 0.14:1 relative to Pipit Lake before fish removal began in 1997 to 0.6:1 afterwards due to an increase in the abundance of adult cyclopoid copepods beginning in 1997 and the reappearance of Daphnia middendorffiana in 1998. Following the reappearance of Daphnia, Bighorn Lake total phytoplankton biomass fell from 64:1 relative to Pipit Lake to 0.9:1. Over the same periods Bighorn Lake:Pipit Lake chlorophyll-a ratios declined from 2.4:1 to 1.6:1, although the decrease was not statistically significant. Mid-summer Secchi disc depth in Bighorn Lake increased from 3.1 m before manipulation to 9.2 m, the maximum depth of the lake, in 2001 and 2002. Increased transparency was most likely due to increased filtration of suspended inorganic particles from the water column by higher abundances of large zooplankton. Post-manipulation increases in dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN), DIN:total dissolved phosphorus (TDP) ratio and declines in TDP in Bighorn Lake were not attributable to ecosystem manipulation, similar changes were observed in reference Pipit Lake. We conclude that strong pelagic CTI, expressed as change in total phytoplankton biomass and largely mediated by Daphnia, can occur in oligotrophic, high seston C:P, species-poor ecosystems. However, strong CTI responses in phytoplankton biomass may lag trophic manipulation by several years.
40603415|Recent research has concluded that forest wildfires in the western United States are becoming larger and more frequent. A more significant question may be whether the ecosystem impacts of wildfire are also increasing. We show that a large area (approximately 120000 km) of California and western Nevada experienced a notable increase in the extent of forest stand-replacing (" high severity") fire between 1984 and 2006. High severity forest fire is closely linked to forest fragmentation, wildlife habitat availability, erosion rates and sedimentation, post-fire seedling recruitment, carbon sequestration, and various other ecosystem properties and processes. Mean and maximum fire size, and the area burned annually have also all risen substantially since the beginning of the 1980s, and are now at or above values from the decades preceding the 1940s, when fire suppression became national policy. These trends are occurring in concert with a regional rise in temperature and a long-term increase in annual precipitation. A close examination of the climate-fire relationship and other evidence suggests that forest fuels are no longer limiting fire occurrence and behavior across much of the study region. We conclude that current trends in forest fire severity necessitate a reexamination of the implications of all-out fire suppression and its ecological impacts.
25053877|Ecosystem structure and function are strongly affected by disturbance events, many of which in North America are associated with seasonal temperature extremes, wildfires, and tropical storms. This study was conducted to evaluate patterns in a 19-year record of global satellite observations of vegetation phenology from the advanced very high resolution radiometer (AVHRR) as a means to characterize major ecosystem disturbance events and regimes. The fraction absorbed of photosynthetically active radiation (FPAR) by vegetation canopies worldwide has been computed at a monthly time interval from 1982 to 2000 and gridded at a spatial resolution of 8-km globally. Potential disturbance events were identified in the FPAR time series by locating anomalously low values (FPAR-LO) that lasted longer than 12 consecutive months at any 8-km pixel. We can find verifiable evidence of numerous disturbance types across North America, including major regional patterns of cold and heat waves, forest fires, tropical storms, and large-scale forest logging. Summed over 19 years, areas potentially influenced by major ecosystem disturbances (one FPAR-LO event over the period 1982-2000) total to more than 766,000
3658692|Although there is a widespread belief that phosphorus (P) limits basic ecosystem processes in moist tropical forests, direct tests of this supposition are rare. At the same time, it is generally believed that P does not limit soil microorganism respiration or growth in terrestrial ecosystems. We used natural gradients in P fertility created by soils of varying age underlying tropical rain forests in southwestern Costa Rica, combined with direct manipulations of carbon (C) and P supply, to test the effects of P availability on the decomposition of multiple forms of C, including dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and soil organic carbon (SOC). Results from a combination of laboratory and field experiments suggest that C decomposition in old, highly weathered oxisol soils is strongly constrained by P availability. In addition, P additions to these soils (no C added) also revealed that microbial utilization of at least labile fractions of SOC was also P limited. To our knowledge, this is the first direct evidence of P limitation of microbial processes in tropical rain forest soil. We suggest that P limitation of microbial decomposition may have profound implications for C cycling in moist tropical forests, including their potential response to increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide. Furthermore, this site is still relatively rich in P when compared to many other tropical forests on old soils; thus, we believe that P limitation of soil microorganisms throughout the humid tropics is a possibility.
41505954|Strong tropical storms are known to affect forest structure, composition, and nutrient cycles in both tropical and temperate regions, although our understanding of these effects disproportionally comes from regions experiencing much lower cyclone frequency than many forests in the Northwest Pacific. We summarized the effects of typhoons on forest dynamics at Fushan Experimental Forest (FEF) in northeastern Taiwan, which averages 0.49 major typhoons annually, and compared their resistance and resilience to those of forests in other regions. Typhoons cause remarkably few tree falls at FEF; multiple typhoons in 1994 felled only 1.4% of canopy trees, demonstrating high structural resistance. The most important effect of typhoons in this ecosystem is defoliation, which maintains high understory light levels and enhances heterogeneity, sustaining diversity without large canopy gaps. The vulnerability of taller trees to being blown down has resulted in the short-stature FEF (mean canopy height is 10.2 m). As the FEF is P-limited and a large fraction of total annual P export occurs during typhoons, these storms may have the effect of reducing productivity over time. DIN and K export only remain elevated for days at FEF, in contrast to the several years observed in Puerto Rico. High resilience is also evident in the rapid recovery of leaf area following typhoons. Heavy defoliation and slow decomposition are among the processes responsible for the high resistance and resilience of FEF to typhoon disturbance. These key structural features may emerge in other forest ecosystems if the frequency of major storms increases with climate change.
3658824| As the evidence of global climate change continues to mount, its consequences for cropland productivity assume particular significance. Against the backdrop of past agricultural practices, simulation models offer a glimpse into the future, showing the effect of temperature changes on crop production. In this study, we first quantified the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) budgets of Ohio's cropland ecosystems using inventory yield data of corn for grain, oat, and all wheat for the period 1866-1996 and soybean for the period 1924-96. Then we explored the responses of Ohio's continuous soybean croplands to changes in temperature, carbon dioxide ( CO
40296327|The exchange of water between the main channel of the tidal freshwater Hudson River and its tidal wetlands is a large proportion of the whole-river water volume and causes large changes in concentrations of some dissolved and suspended constituents. Ten representative wetlands were assessed for their ability to alter quantities of inorganic nutrients, suspended particles, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), and dissolved oxygen during tidal exchange. The majority of sites acted as sinks for oxygen and nitrate and as sources of DOC. For other variables such as phosphate and pigments, individual wetlands varied broadly in both the direction and magnitude of change. For some variables (oxygen, DOC) we found mechanistically plausible predictors for the magnitude of alteration. The proportional coverage of submerged vegetation or intertidal marsh graminoid vegetation was related to the degree of change in oxygen and DOC. For most cases, however, we did not find strong predictors and we attribute this to the spatial positioning of "hot spots" or redundancy in the processes actually responsible for the transformation. Our ability to predict ecosystem performance from whole-ecosystem attributes may be impeded by lack of consideration of within-system spatial contingencies or lack of knowledge of which process is actually responsible for the observed alteration in material flux.
25470317|Nitrogen (N) is a critical limiting nutrient that regulates plant productivity and the cycling of other essential elements in forests. We measured foliar and soil nutrients in 22 young Douglas-fir stands in the Oregon Coast Range to examine patterns of nutrient availability across a gradient of N-poor to N-rich soils. N in surface mineral soil ranged from 0.15 to 1.05% N, and was positively related to a doubling of foliar N across sites. Foliar N in half of the sites exceeded 1.4% N, which is considered above the threshold of N-limitation in coastal Oregon Douglas-fir. Available nitrate increased five-fold across this gradient, whereas exchangeable magnesium (Mg) and calcium (Ca) in soils declined, suggesting that nitrate leaching influences base cation availability more than soil parent material across our sites. Natural abundance strontium isotopes (Sr/Sr) of a single site indicated that 97% of available base cations can originate from atmospheric inputs of marine aerosols, with negligible contributions from weathering. Low annual inputs of Ca relative to Douglas-fir growth requirements may explain why foliar Ca concentrations are highly sensitive to variations in soil Ca across our sites. Natural abundance calcium isotopes (Ca) in exchangeable and acid leachable pools of surface soil measured at a single site showed 1 per mil depletion relative to deep soil, suggesting strong Ca recycling to meet tree demands. Overall, the biogeochemical response of these Douglas-fir forests to gradients in soil N is similar to changes associated with chronic N deposition in more polluted temperate regions, and raises the possibility that Ca may be deficient on excessively N-rich sites. We conclude that wide gradients in soil N can drive non-linear changes in base-cation biogeochemistry, particularly as forests cross a threshold from N-limitation to N-saturation. The most acute changes may occur in forests where base cations are derived principally from atmospheric inputs.
41413041|Trends of increasing agricultural trade, increased concentration of livestock production systems, and increased human consumption of livestock products influence the distribution of nutrients across the global landscape. Phosphorus (P) represents a unique management challenge as we are rapidly depleting mineable reserves of this essential and non-renewable resource. At the same time, its overuse can lead to pollution of aquatic ecosystems. We analyzed the relative contributions of food crop, feed crop, and livestock product trade to P flows through agricultural soils for 12 countries from 1961 to 2007. Due to the intensification of agricultural production, average soil surface  balances more than tripled from 6 to 21 kg P ha between 1961 and2007 for the 12study countries. Consequently, countries that are primarily agricultural exporters carried increased risks for water pollution or, for Argentina, reduced soil fertility due to soil P mining to support exports. In 2007, nations imported food and feed from regions with higher apparent P fertilizer use efficiencies than if those crops were produced domestically. However, this was largely because imports were sourced from regions depleting soil P resources to support export crop production. In addition, the pattern of regional specialization and intensification of production systems also reduced the potential to recycle P resources, with greater implications for livestock production than crop production. In a globalizing world, it will be increasingly important to integrate biophysical constraints of our natural resources and environmental impacts of agricultural systems into trade policy and agreements and to develop mechanisms that move us closer to more equitable management of nonrenewable resources such as phosphorus.
25053804|We elucidate spatial controls of wind and fire disturbance across northern Wisconsin (USA), where climatic and topographic gradients are not strong, using data from the original US Public Land Survey (PLS) notes. These records contain information on the location and extent of heavy windthrows and stand-replacing fires prior to Euro-American settlement. The spatial patterns of windthrow and fire were spatially clustered at all scales in this historical environment, with stronger associations at local than regional scales. Logistic regression shows environmental variables to have a strong influence on this pattern. In the case of heavy windthrow, environmental drivers of disturbance pattern are fairly consistent across the region. The effects of climate and vegetation are predominant at all scales, but effects are often indirect, with strong interactions between them. Interactions between these two drivers and soil characteristics are also sometimes present. In contrast, models of stand-replacing fire show simple and direct control within and across fire-prone landscapes of historical northern Wisconsin, with climate and physiography as the main factors explaining the distribution of fire disturbance. This simple and direct control is lost at the regional scale, where climate, physiographic, soil, and vegetation variables, along with interactions between them, are significant factors. Contrary to other regions, the topographic effects are generally not important in predicting either wind or fire disturbance. Our work suggests that, in landscapes that lack strong environmental patterning, climate maintains its role as a primary driver of these natural disturbances, but topography is replaced by interactions and feedbacks with other forms of environmental heterogeneity.
3658939|A central goal of ecosystem ecology is to understand how the cycling of nutrients and the growth of organisms are linked. Ecologists have repeatedly observed that nutrient mineralization and plant production are closely coupled in time in many terrestrial ecosystems. Typically, mineralization rates of limiting nutrients, particularly of nitrogen, during the growing season determine nutrient availability while pools of mineral nutrients remain low and relatively constant. Although several previous reports suggest nitrogen mineralization has the potential to vary seasonally and out of phase with plant production, such a phenomenon has been poorly documented. Here we report results from a semiarid savanna ecosystem characterized by distinct temporal asynchrony in rates of soil nitrogen cycling and plant production. Periods of positive plant growth following the onset of rains coincide with periods of low N turnover rates, whereas higher rates occur late in the wet season following plant senescence and throughout dry seasons. Plant uptake from the substantial mineral N pool present early in the growing season is sufficient to explain most of the N allocation to aboveground plant biomass during the growing season, even in the absence of any wet-season mineralization. The mineral N pool is subsequently recharged by late wet- and dry-season mineralization, plus urine inputs at sites with high levels of ungulate activity. These findings suggest fundamental changes in the quality of substrates available to decomposers over a seasonal cycle, with significant implications for the partitioning of limiting nutrients by plant species, the seasonal pattern of nutrient limitations of aboveground production, and the effective use of N fertilizers in semiarid ecosystems.
3658834|We present a regional-historical approach to the interpretation, conservation, and management of pitch pine-scrub oak (PPSO) communities in the Connecticut Valley of Massachusetts. Historical studies, aerial photographs, GIS analyses, and extensive field sampling are used to (a) document changes in the historical distribution, composition, and dynamics of these communities, and (b) evaluate the importance of regional-historical approaches to understanding, conserving, and managing uncommon communities. At the time of European settlement, pine plains dominated by both pitch and white pine were widespread, occurring on 9000 ha or more of the extensive (approximately 32,000 ha) xeric outwash deposits in the Connecticut Valley. Pine plains were harvested for diverse forest products from the 17th to the early 19th centuries. After 1830, most sites were cleared and plowed for agriculture and then abandoned in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, resulting in widespread natural reforestation. Modern PPSO communities differ from historical communities with respect to landscape distribution, composition, and structure. Nearly all modern pitch pine stands in the Connecticut Valley became established on former agricultural fields. Current vegetation on these former fields differs substantially from those few sites that were never plowed. In particular, several species (for example, Gaultheria procumbens, Gaylussacia baccata, Quercus ilicifolia, and Q. prinoides) that are characteristic of unplowed sites have not successfully colonized former fields in the 50 to more than 100 years since agricultural abandonment. Urban, commercial, and residential development have been widespread in the 20th century. By 1985, only 38.6% of the outwash deposits remained forested, and only 1094 ha of pitch pine stands and 74 ha of scrub oak stands occurred, primarily in numerous small patches. Several stands have been destroyed since 1985, and development threatens all remaining sites. The trend towards rapid urban development in the 20th century makes it increasingly urgent that the few, relatively large, undeveloped sites be protected. Our results suggest that (a) land protection efforts should prioritize large, undeveloped sand plains, areas that were not plowed historically, and reestablishment of contiguity between isolated sites to facilitate colonization of former agricultural lands by sand plain species; (b) management of PPSO communities should not be restricted to maintenance of open barrens; "old-growth" pitch and white pine stands occurred historically, and some PPSO communities should be allowed to mature without frequent disturbance; (c) the exclusive use of prescribed fires during the spring months is unlikely to maintain communities similar to modern ones or to restore communities similar to historical ones. Establishment or maintenance of open barrens species and communities may require more varied disturbance regimes, perhaps including mechanical treatment in combination with prescribed fire to simulate severe summer fires; (d) regional-historical perspectives are critical for understanding modern community dynamics and for evaluating conservation objectives and management strategies for uncommon plant communities.
3658951|The Kyoto protocol has focused the attention of the public and policymarkers on the earth's carbon (C) budget. Previous estimates of the impacts of vegetation change have been limited to equilibrium "snapshots" that could not capture nonlinear or threshold effects along the trajectory of change. New models have been designed to complement equilibrium models and simulate vegetation succession through time while estimating variability in the C budget and responses to episodic events such as drought and fire. In addition, a plethora of future climate scenarios has been used to produce a bewildering variety of simulated ecological responses. Our objectives were to use an equilibrium model (Mapped Atmosphere-Plant-Soil system, or MAPSS) and a dynamic model (MC1) to (a) simulate changes in potential equilibrium vegetation distribution under historical conditions and across a wide gradient of future temperature changes to look for consistencies and trends among the many future scenarios, (b) simulate time-dependent changes in vegetation distribution and its associated C pools to illustrate the possible trajectories of vegetation change near the high and low ends of the temperature gradient, and (c) analyze the extent of the US area supporting a negative C balance. Both models agree that a moderate increase in temperature produces an increase in vegetation density and carbon sequestration across most of the US with small changes in vegetation types. Large increases in temperature cause losses of C with large shifts in vegetation types. In the western states, particularly southern California, precipitation and thus vegetation density increase and forests expand under all but the hottest scenarios. In the eastern US, particularly the Southeast, forests expand under the more moderate scenarios but decline under more severe climate scenarios, with catastrophic fires potentially causing rapid vegetation conversions from forest to savanna. Both models show that there is a potential for either positive or negative feedbacks to the atmosphere depending on the level of warming in the climate change scenarios.
25470366|The hydrochemical signatures of forested ecosystems are known to be determined by a time-variant combination of physical-hydrologic, geo-chemical, and biologic processes. We studied sub-surface potassium (K), calcium (Ca), and nitrate (NO) in an experimental red -pine mesocosm to determine how trees affect the behavior of these nutrients in soil water, both during growth and after a harvest disturbance. Solution chemistry was monitored for 2 years at the end of a 15-year period of tree growth, and then for 3 more years after harvest and removal of aboveground biomass. Concentrations were characterized by three distinct temporal patterns that we ascribe to changes in solute generation mechanisms. Prior to harvest, K soil-water concentrations were relatively uniform with depth, whereas Ca soil-water concentrations doubled with depth. Nitrate concentrations were below detection in soil water and discharge (drainage) water. Plant uptake and water/nutrient cycling exerted strong control during this interval. During the 1st year after harvest, K concentrations tripled in shallow soil water, relative to preharvest levels, and showed a strong seasonal peak in discharge that mimicked soil temperature. Summer soil temperatures and annual water flux also increased. Decomposition of labile litter, with complete nitrogen (N) immobilization, characterized this interval. In the third interval (years 2 and 3 after harvest), decomposition shifted from N to carbon (C) limitation, and Ca and NO concentrations in discharge spiked to nearly 200 and 400 M, respectively. Relatively stable ionic strength and carbonate chemistry in discharge, throughout the study period, indicate that carbonic-acid weathering was sustained by below-ground decomposition long after the harvest. This stable chemical weathering regime, along with the persistence of N limitation for a long period after disturbance, may be characteristic of early-phase primary-successional systems.
23253738|Nitrogen (N) fixation in the feather mosscyanobacteria association represents a major N source in boreal forests which experience low levels of N deposition; however, little is known about the effects of anthropogenic N inputs on the rate of fixation of atmospheric N 2 in mosses and the succeeding effects on soil nutrient concentrations and microbial community composition. We collected soil samples and moss shoots of Pleurozium schreberi at six distances along busy and remote roads in northern Sweden to assess the influence of road-derived N inputs on N 2 fixation in moss, soil nutrient concentrations and microbial communities. Soil nutrients were similar between busy and remote roads; N 2 fixation was higher in mosses along the remote roads than along the busy roads and increased with increasing distance from busy roads up to rates of N 2 fixation similar to remote roads. Throughfall N was higher in sites adjacent to the busy roads but showed no distance effect. Soil microbial phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) composition exhibited a weak pattern regarding road type. Concentrations of bacterial and total PLFAs decreased with increasing distance from busy roads, whereas fungal PLFAs showed no distance effect. Our results show that N 2 fixation in feather mosses is highly affected by N deposition, here derived from roads in northern Sweden. Moreover, as other measured factors showed only weak differences between the road types, atmospheric N 2 fixation in feather mosses represents a highly sensitive indicator for increased N loads to natural systems.
3658807|To test the hypothesis that long-term peat accumulation is related to contemporary carbon flux dynamics, we present the Peat Decomposition Model (PDM), a new model of long-term peat accumulation. Decomposition rates of the deeper peat are directly related to observable decomposition rates of fresh vegetation litter. Plant root effects (subsurface oxygenation and fresh litter inputs) are included. PDM considers two vegetation types, vascular and nonvascular, with different decomposition rates and aboveground and belowground litter input rates. We used PDM to investigate the sensitivities of peat accumulation in bogs and fens to productivity, root:shoot ratio, tissue decomposability, root and water table depths, and climate. Warmer and wetter conditions are more conducive to peat accumulation. Bogs are more sensitive than fens to climate conditions. Cooler and drier conditions lead to the lowest peat accumulation when productivity is more temperature sensitive than decomposition rates. We also compare peat age-depth profiles to field data. With a very general parameterization, PDM fen and bog age-depth profiles were similar to data from the the most recent 5000 years at three bog cores and a fen core in eastern Canada, but they overestimated accumulation at three other bog cores in that region. The model cannot reliably predict the amount of fen peat remaining from the first few millennia of a peatland's development. This discrepancy may relate to nonanalogue, early postglacial climatic and nutrient conditions for rich-fen peat accumulation and to the fate of this fen peat material, which is overlain by a bog as the peatland evolves, a common hydroseral succession in northern peatlands. Because PDM sensitivity tests point to these possible factors, we conclude that the static model represents a framework that shows a consistent relationship between contemporary productivity and fresh-tissue decomposition rates and observed long-term peat accumulation.
25053837|Decline of riparian forests has been attributed to hydrologic modifications to river flows. However, little is known about the physiological and structural adjustments of riparian forests subject to modified flow regimes, and the potential for forest restoration using historic flow regimes is poorly understood. In this paired river study, we compared hydrology, water relations, and forest structure in cottonwood-dominated floodplains of the regulated Green River to those of the unregulated Yampa River. We measured floodplain groundwater levels, soil water availability, cottonwood xylem pressure
23253697|Mangrove wetland restoration and creation efforts are increasingly proposed as mechanisms to compensate for mangrove wetland losses. However, ecosystem development and functional equivalence in restored and created mangrove wetlands are poorly understood. We compared a 20-year chronosequence of created tidal wetland sites in Tampa Bay, Florida (USA) to natural reference mangrove wetlands. Across the chronosequence, our sites represent the succession from salt marsh to mangrove forest communities. Our results identify important soil and plant structural differences between the created and natural reference wetland sites; however, they also depict a positive developmental trajectory for the created wetland sites that reflects tightly coupled plant-soil development. Because upland soils and/or dredge spoils were used to create the new mangrove habitats, the soils at younger created sites and at lower depths (1030 cm) had higher bulk densities, higher sand content, lower soil organic matter (SOM), lower total carbon (TC), and lower total nitrogen (TN) than did natural reference wetland soils. However, in the upper soil layer (010 cm), SOM, TC, and TN increased with created wetland site age simultaneously with mangrove forest growth. The rate of created wetland soil C accumulation was comparable to literature values for natural mangrove wetlands. Notably, the time to equivalence for the upper soil layer of created mangrove wetlands appears to be faster than for many other wetland ecosystem types. Collectively, our findings characterize the rate and trajectory of above- and below-ground changes associated with ecosystem development in created mangrove wetlands; this is valuable information for environmental managers planning to sustain existing mangrove wetlands or mitigate for mangrove wetland losses.
27823731|The surface of bogs is commonly patterned and composed of different vegetation communities, defined by water level. Carbon dioxide (CO2) dynamics vary spatially between the vegetation communities. An understanding of the controls on the spatial variation of CO2 dynamics is required to assess the role of bogs in the global carbon cycle. The water level gradient in a blanket bog was described and the CO2 exchange along the gradient investigated using chamber based measurements in combination with regression modelling. The aim was to investigate the controls on gross photosynthesis (PG), ecosystem respiration (RE) and net ecosystem CO2 exchange (NEE) as well as the spatial and temporal variation in these fluxes. Vegetation structure was strongly controlled by water level. The species with distinctive water level optima were separated into the opposite ends of the gradient in canonical correspondence analysis. The number of species and leaf area were highest in the intermediate water level range and these communities had the highest PG. Photosynthesis was highest when the water level was 11 cm below the surface. Ecosystem respiration, which includes decomposition, was less dependent on vegetation structure and followed the water level gradient more directly. The annual NEE varied from 115 to 768 g CO2 m2, being lowest in wet and highest in dry vegetation communities. The temporal variation was most pronounced in PG, which decreased substantially during winter, when photosynthetic photon flux density and leaf area were lowest. Ecosystem respiration, which is dependent on temperature, was less variable and wintertime RE fluxes constituted approximately 24% of the annual flux.
40296266|Vegetation growth models are used with remotely sensed and meteorological data to monitor terrestrial carbon dynamics at a range of spatial and temporal scales. Many of these models are based on a light-use efficiency equation and two-component model of whole-plant growth and maintenance respiration that have been parameterized for distinct vegetation types and biomes. This study was designed to assess the robustness of these parameters for predicting interannual plant growth and carbon exchange, and more specifically to address inconsistencies that may arise during forest disturbances and the loss of canopy foliage. A model based on the MODIS MOD 17 algorithm was parameterized for a mature upland hardwood forest by inverting CO flux tower observations during years when the canopy was not disturbed. This model was used to make predictions during a year when the canopy was 37% defoliated by forest tent caterpillars. Predictions improved after algorithms were modified to scale for the effects of diffuse radiation and loss of leaf area. Photosynthesis and respiration model parameters were found to be robust at daily and annual time scales regardless of canopy disturbance, and differences between modeled net ecosystem production and tower net ecosystem exchange were only approximately 2 g C m d and less than 23 g C m y . Canopy disturbance events such as insect defoliations are common in temperate forests of North America, and failure to account for cyclical outbreaks of forest tent caterpillars in this stand could add an uncertainty of approximately 4-13% in long-term predictions of carbon sequestration.
41505923|High-frequency measurements are increasingly available and used to model ecosystem processes. This growing capability provides the opportunity to resolve key drivers of ecosystem processes at a variety of scales. We use a unique series of highfrequency measures of potential predictors to analyze daily variation in rates of gross primary production (GPP), respiration (R), and net ecosystem production (NEP = GPP  R) for two north temperate lakes. Wind speed, temperature, light, precipitation, mixed layer depth, water column stability, chlorophyll a, chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM), and Zooplankton biomass were measured at daily or higher-frequency intervals over two summer seasons. We hypothesized that light, chlorophyll a, and Zooplankton biomass would be strongly related to variability in GPP. We also hypothesized that chlorophyll a, CDOM, and temperature would be most strongly related to variability in R, whereas NEP would be related to variation in chlorophyll a and CDOM. Consistent with our hypotheses, chlorophyll a was among the most important drivers of GPP, R, and NEP in these systems. However, multiple regression models did not necessarily include the other variables we hypothesized as most important. Despite the large number of potential predictor variables, substantial variance remained unexplained and models were inconsistent between years and between lakes. Drivers of GPP, R, and NEP were difficult to resolve at daily time scales where strong seasonal dynamics were absent. More complex models with greater integration of physical processes are needed to better identify the underlying drivers of short-term variability of ecosystem processes in lakes and other systems.
25053864|In semi-arid West Africa, livestock are increasingly managed by sedentary producers in close proximity to expanding cropped lands. To evaluate the agricultural and environmental implications of this trend, a study was conducted to investigate the effect of grazing management on the spatial distribution of grazing pressure, the forage provided animals during the grazing period, and local herd-forage ratios across three agropastoral landscapes characterized by varying cultivation pressure. During the 19-month study period, data on herbaceous vegetation, livestock populations, and grazing itineraries were collected. These data were referenced to land units averaging 70 ha in area. Using this approach, each of 3,819 grazing itineraries was characterized as to: 1. the sum of the products of the palatable forage mass of a particular land unit and the time spent grazing by the herd within that unit (FAT, expressed in kg-hours
25053825|The FLooded Uplands Dynamics EXperiment (FLUDEX) was designed to assess the impact of reservoir creation on carbon cycling in boreal forests by (a) determining whether production of the greenhouse gases (GHG) carbon dioxide
23501488|The relative contributions of double counting of carbon emissions between forest-to-nonforest cover change (FNCC) and forest wildfires are an unknown in estimating net forest carbon exchanges at large scales. This study employed land-cover change maps and forest fire data in the four representative states (Arkansas, California, Minnesota, and Washington) of the US for the period from 1992 to 2006 to evaluate forest carbon double counting effects based on land-cover change map, forest fire data, and USDA Forest Service Forest Inventory and Analysis data. The analyses were conducted at the county level and tallied to state level. Although the effects were small in the two eastern states because of small burned areas and low burn severity, substantial effects were found in the two western states. Carbon double counting was about 10 TgC (teragram 10 12 ) in California and 6 TgC in Washington for the period 19922006 (at rates of 0.7 and 0.4 TgC per year), or 21.9 and 7.6% relative to total forest carbon emissions through FNCC in the two states, respectively. The effects were 0.2 and 0.1% in Arkansas and Minnesota, respectively. Variation in double counting effects within the states was also much higher in the western states compared with the eastern states. Our results suggested a general pattern that rates and amounts of double counting in forest carbon emissions between FNCC and fires were more evident and substantially different on a westeast dimension than that on a northsouth dimension across the conterminous US during the study period.
25622888|Nutrient fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems are governed by complex biological and physical interactions. Ecologists' mechanistic understanding of these interactions has focused on biological controls including plant uptake and microbial processing. However, ecologists and hydrologists have recently demonstrated that physical controls are also important. Here, we show that within-site spatial variation in soil solution N concentrations is a function of soil clay content across a globally diverse array of field sites. Clay content explained 35 and 53% of the coefficient of variations (CV) in soil solution nitrate (NO) and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON), respectively. The CV of soil hydraulic conductivity is a similar function of clay content, suggesting that soil hydrology may be a significant mechanism affecting variation in soil solution N. Although vegetation physiognomy and soil C/N ratios are known to affect soil solution N concentrations, neither was significantly related to within-site spatial variation in NO or DON. However, the spatial variation of NO and DON was greater in younger forests than in paired older forests. Our data show that the heterogeneity of an important resource, soil solution N, is a predictable function of clay content. Resource heterogeneity, such as that described here for soil solution N, can affect population, community, and ecosystem processes.
25470320|There is disagreement among ecologists as to whether ecosystem system behavior in general is the net result of all of the complex internal system interactions (bottom-driven) or if the behavior is driven by a limited number of key processes (top-driven). If ecosystems are primarily bottom-driven in nature, then it is unlikely that any two complex ecosystems will ever behaviorally converge as a simple matter of probability, or that their behaviors will ever be predictable. Conversely, evidence of ecosystem convergence would suggest that the systems are top-driven, with the corollary that their behaviors can be understood (and therefore in principle predicted) without a complete understanding of their internal workings. Research has demonstrated that body mass distributions of terrestrial animals broadly reflect ecosystem function. Thus, comparable but causally disconnected terrestrial ecosystems that demonstrate similar body mass distributions would suggest ecosystem convergence. To look for this possible convergence, I generated body mass distributions in a time series for late Miocene North American mammal faunas from the Gulf Coastal Plains, Great Plains, and Pacific coastal region, and compared them with data from the modern Serengeti savanna region. The data show that during the early late Miocene Gulf Coastal Plain faunas resembled each other but were distinctly different from that of the Serengeti, the Great Plains fauna resembled the Serengeti, while the Pacific Coast fauna showed no resemblance to any of the others. However, during the latest Miocene the Gulf Coastal Plain faunas were transformed so as to strongly resemble the Serengeti fauna. The resemblance with the Serengeti was maintained by the Great Plains faunas until at least the end of the Miocene, while the Pacific Coast faunas remained distinctly different from the others. These findings suggest that the late Miocene ecosystems of the Gulf Coastal Plain and Great Plains regions (but not the Pacific Coast region) converged with that of the Serengeti savanna fauna and thus that these ecosystems were/are top-driven rather than bottom-driven in nature.
3658599|A phosphorus (P) budget was calculated for the agriculture-dominated Lake Mendota watershed located in Dane and Columbia Counties, Wisconsin, USA. P inputs included fertilizer for agricultural crops and lawns, dietary supplements for dairy cattle, and natural inputs such as dry and wet deposition. Outputs included agricultural crops, livestock and livestock products, and hydrologic export to Lake Mendota. The total P input to the watershed (
41505986|In this study, three cities located in the U. S. Corn Belt are evaluated for impacts of past (19922001) and projected (20012030) urban expansion on ecosystem goods and services, with a specific focus on changes in energy balance, hydrology, and productivity. Scenarios for high-, medium- and low-density urban areas are simulated using a dynamic agro-ecosystem model (Agro-IBIS), by incorporating new parameterizations for impervious surfaces and turf grass. Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) 500-m albedo data and remote sensing-derived 30-m resolution maps from the U.S. National Land Cover Database are used as model input to simulate biogeochemical, thermodynamic, and hydrological cycles for a range of land-cover types in each region. The results show that the expanding urban areas have a significant impact on each city's capacity to regulate climate and flooding. High-density urban areas, for instance, have soil surface temperatures up to 6C higher than soils within natural and managed ecosystems. Expansion of turf grass in residential areas could require an additional 8105 million m of water use annually, which increases runoff by 1548% and reduces the capacity to respond/adapt to flooding. Finally, the analysis shows that net primary productivity (NPP) decreases as expected due to the removal of cropland, forests, and grasslands in favor of development, but increased urban turf grass provides an annual offset of 40210 g C m. Urban expansion through 2030 is estimated to lower total annual crop production by 8.1, 8.6, and 16.7% for the Madison, Peoria, and Indianapolis regions, respectively. Given current projections for city growth to exceed 23% per year in the north-central U.S., urban expansion across a nine-state region in the Corn Belt could potentially take an additional 210,000-310,000 ha of farmland out of production annually at a time when demand for food, fuel, and fiber is increasing. Because conversion of cropland to urban uses is nearly always unidirectional, any changes to ecosystem goods and services due to urbanization are likely to be permanent and irreversible.
25053892|Building resilience in integrated human and nature systems or social-ecological systems (SES) is key for sustainability. Therefore, developing ways of assessing resilience is of practical as well as theoretical significance. We approached the issue by focusing on the local level and using five lagoon systems from various parts of the world for illustration. We used a framework based on four categories of factors for building resilience: (1) learning to live with change and uncertainty; (2) nurturing diversity for reorganization and renewal; (3) combining different kinds of knowledge; and (4) creating opportunity for self-organization. Under each category, the cases generated a number of items for building resilience, and potential surrogates of resilience, that is, variables through which the persistence of SES emerging through change can be assessed. The following factors were robust across all five lagoon SES cases: learning from crisis, responding to change, nurturing ecological memory, monitoring the environment, and building capacity for self-organization and conflict management.
3658652|Studies of long-term soil and ecosystem development on static geomorphic surfaces show that old soils become depleted in most rock-derived nutrients. As they are depleted, however, static surfaces also are dissected by fluvial erosion. This fluvial erosion leads to colluvial soil transport on the resulting slopes, which in turn can rejuvenate the supply of weathering-derived nutrients to plants. We evaluated the influence of erosion and consequent landscape evolution on nutrient availability along a slope on the Island of Kaua'i, near the oldest, most nutrient-depleted site on a substrate age gradient across the Hawaiian Islands. Noncrystalline minerals characteristic of younger Hawaiian soils increased from 3% of the soil on the static constructional surface at the top of the slope to 13% on the lower slope, and the fraction of soil phosphorus (P) that was occluded (and hence unavailable) decreased from 80% to 56% at mid-slope. Foliar nitrogen and P concentrations in Metrosideros polymorpha increased from 0.82% and 0.062% to 1.13% and 0.083% on the constructional surface and lower slope, respectively. The increase in foliar P over a horizontal difference of less than 250 m represents nearly half of the total variation in foliar P observed over 4.1 million years of soil and ecosystem development in Hawai'i. The fraction of foliar strontium (Sr) derived from weathering of Hawaiian basalt was determined using
41505967|Groundwaters are increasingly viewed as resource-limited ecosystems in which fluxes of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from surface water are efficiently mineralized by a consortium of microorganisms which are grazed by invertebrates. We tested for the effect of groundwater recharge on resource supply and trophic interactions by measuring physico-chemistry, microbial activity and biomass, structure of bacterial communities and invertebrate density at three sites intensively recharged with surface water. Comparison of measurements made in recharge and control well clusters at each site showed that groundwater recharge significantly increased fluxes of DOC and phosphate, elevated groundwater temperature, and diminished dissolved oxygen (DO). Microbial biomass and activity were significantly higher in recharge well clusters but stimulation of autochthonous microorganisms was not associated with a major shift in bacterial community structure. Invertebrate assemblages were not significantly more abundant in recharge well clusters and did not show any relationship with microbial biomass and activity. Microbial communities were bottom-up regulated by DOC and nutrient fluxes but trophic interactions between microorganisms and invertebrates were apparently limited by environmental stresses, particularly DO depletion and groundwater warming. Hydrological connectivity is a key factor regulating the function of DOC-based groundwater food webs as it influences both resource availability for microorganisms and environmental stresses which affect energy transfer to invertebrates and top-down control on microorganisms.
3658725|We measured nitrogenase activity (acetylene reduction) of asymbiotic, heterotrophic, nitrogen-fixing bacteria on leaf litter from the tree Metrosideros polymorpha collected from six sites on the Hawaiian archipelago. At all sites M. polymorpha was the dominant tree, and its litter was the most abundant on the forest floor. The sites spanned a soil chronosequence of 300 to 4.1 million y. We estimated potential nitrogen fixation associated with this leaf litter to be highest at the youngest site
40928228|In addition to potential benefits, biotechnology in silviculture may also be associated with environmental considerations, including effects on organisms associated with the living tree and on ecosystems and processes dependent on tree residue. We examined whether genetic modification of lignin characteristics (CAD and COMT) in Populus sp. affected leaf litter quality, the decomposition of leaf litter, and the assemblages of aquatic insects colonizing the litter in three natural streams. The decomposition of leaf litter from one of the genetically modified (GM) lines (CAD) was affected in ways that were comparable over streams and harvest dates. After 84 days in streams, CAD-litter had lost approximately 6.1 % less mass than the non-GM litter. Genetic modification also affected the concentration of phenolics and carbon in the litter but this only partially explained the decomposition differences, suggesting that other factors were also involved. Insect community analyses comparing GM and non-GM litter showed no significant differences, and the two GM litters showed differences only in the 84-day litterbags. The total abundance and species richness of insects were also similar on GM and non-GM litter. The results presented here suggest that genetic modifications in trees can influence litter quality and thus have a potential to generate effects that can cross ecosystem boundaries and influence ecosystem processes not directly associated with the tree. Overall, the realized ecological effects of the GM tree varieties used here were nevertheless shown to be relatively small.
25053827|We evaluated several factors influencing the taxonomic richness of macrophytes, benthic invertebrates, snails, and fish in a series of northern Wisconsin lakes. We chose the study lakes to decouple the potential effects of ionic strength of lake water and stream connection, two factors that are usually highly correlated and therefore have been confounded in previous studies. In addition, our study lakes covered a wide range in a variety of characteristics, including residential development, abundance of exotic species, nutrient concentrations, predator abundance, and lake size. Species richness within each of the four taxonomic groups was significantly positively related to ionic strength (as measured by specific conductance); we also found secondary associations with other variables, depending on the specific group of organisms. The relationship between richness and lake area was dependent on the specific conductance of the lake and the vagility of the organisms; less vagile groups of organisms showed stronger and steeper species-area relationships in low-conductivity lakes. Further, after variance owing to specific conductance was removed, the presence of stream connections was positively related to species richness for fish, snails, and macrophytes as well as familial richness in benthic invertebrates. Our results indicate that lakes with relatively more groundwater input have lower extinction rates for all four groups of taxa and that lakes with stream inlets and outlets have enhanced immigration rates for fish, snails, benthic invertebrate families, and macrophytes. These findings link processes of immigration and extinction of four groups of organisms of varying vagility to landscape-level hydrologic characteristics related to the glacial history of the region.
40603639|The Mackenzie River Delta, a floodplain system in the western Canadian Arctic contains approximately 45,000 lakes used by resident and migratory fish, aquatic birds, and mammal populations, which are critical resources for aboriginal peoples.Our reslts show the Mackenzie Delta is a remarkably productive aquatic ecosystem, not out of place relative to other large river floodplains and unusually productive for its Arctic latitude. Along with other such deltas of north flowing rivers to the Arctic Ocean, it represents a critical habitat of high productivity to support dependent consumers. Our results also showed a consistent under-saturation of CO in lake waters of the delta, co-occurring even with high concentrations of dissolved organic carbon, and indicating P: R greater than 1 during the open water period. In less turbid lakes, abundant macrophytes provide a considerable surface area for supporting production of epiphyton, but epiphyton production is constrained strongly by macrophyte shading, when macrophyte biomass is high. Despite this, epiphyton represented a greater supply of non-macrophyte algal carbon than phytoplankton, and thus explains why benthic algae may be a more important food source for primary consumers than phytoplankton, except in the most turbid systems. Most importantly, the high autotrophic production in the Delta lakes relative to nearby lakes on the arctic tundra suggests the extended ice-free season of the floodplain lakes and their landscape setting on, and replenishment by, nutrient-richriversediments, is the strongest influence on aquatic production levels.
25470385|Although the effects of anthropogenic nitrogen (N) inputs on the dynamics of inorganic N in watersheds have been studied extensively, "the influence of N enrichment on organic N loss" is not as well understood. We compiled and synthesized data on surface water N concentrations from 348 forested and human-dominated watersheds with a range of N loads (from less than 100 to 7,100 kg N km y) to evaluate the effects of N loading via atmospheric deposition, fertilization, and wastewater on dissolved organic N (DON) concentrations. Our results indicate that, on average, DON accounts for half of the total dissolved N (TDN) concentrations from forested watersheds, but it accounts for a smaller fraction of TDN in runoff from urban and agricultural watersheds with higher N loading. A significant but weak correlation (r = 0.06) suggests that N loading has little influence on DON concentrations in forested watersheds. This result contrasts with observations from some plot-scale N fertilization studies and suggests that variability in watershed characteristics and climate among forested watersheds may be a more important control on DON losses than N loading from atmospheric sources. Mean DON concentrations were positively correlated, however, with N load across the entire land-use gradient (r = 0.37, P < 0.01), with the highest concentrations found in agricultural and urban watersheds. We hypothesize that both direct contributions of DON from wastewater and agricultural amendments and indirect transformations of inorganic N to organic N represent important sources of DON to surface waters in human-dominated watersheds. We conclude that DON is an important component of N loss in surface waters draining forested and human-dominated watersheds and suggest several research priorities that may be useful in elucidating the role of N enrichment in watershed DON dynamics.
3658955| The high-arctic terrestrial environment is generally recognized as one of the world's most sensitive areas with regard to global warming. In this study, we examined the influence of an isolated warm period on net ecosystem carbon dioxide ( CO
27823672|Stream export of nitrogen (N) as nitrate (NO3; the most mobile form of N) from forest ecosystems is thought to be controlled largely by plant uptake of inorganic N, such that reduced demand for plant N during the non-growing season and following disturbances results in increased stream NO3 export. The roles of microbes and soils in ecosystem N retention are less clear, but are the dominant controls on N export when plant uptake is low. We used a mass balance approach to investigate soil N retention during winter (December through March) at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest by comparing NO3 inputs (atmospheric deposition), internal production (soil microbial nitrification), and stream output. We focused on months when plant N uptake is nearly zero and the potential for N export is high. Although winter months accounted for only 1015% of annual net nitrification, soil NO3 production (0.81.0 g N m2 winter1) was much greater than stream export (0.030.19 N m2 winter1). Soil NO3 retention in two consecutive winters was high (96% of combined NO3 deposition and soil production; year 1) even following severe plant disturbance caused by an ice-storm (84%; year 2) We show that soil NO3 retention is surprisingly high even when N demand by plants is low. Our study highlights the need to better understand mechanisms of N retention during the non-growing season to predict how ecosystems will respond to high inputs of atmospheric N, disturbance, and climate change.
40792951|Increased nitrogen (N) deposition caused by human activities has altered ecosystem functioning and biodiversity. To understand the effects of altered  availability, we measured the abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and the microbial community in northern hardwood forests exposed to long-term (12 years) simulated  deposition (30 kg N ha y) using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis and hyphal in-growth bags. Intra* and extraradical AMF biomass and total microbial biomass were significantly decreased by simulated N deposition by 36, 41, and 24%, respectively. Both methods of extraradical AMF biomass estimation (soil PLFA 16:15c and hyphal in-growth bags) showed comparable treatment responses, and extraradical biomass represented the majority of total (intra-plus extraradical) AMF biomass. N deposition also significantly affected the microbial community structure, leading to a 10% decrease in fungal to bacterial biomass ratios. Our observed decline in AMF and total microbial biomass together with changes in microbial community structure could have substantial impacts on the nutrient and carbon cycling within northern hardwood forest ecosystems.
40603648|Little research has been conducted on effects of iteroparous anadromous fishes on Arctic lakes. We investigated trophic ecology, fish growth, and food web structure in six lakes located in Nunavut, Canada; three lakes contained anadromous Arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus) whereas three lakes did not contain Arctic charr. All lakes contained forage fishes and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush; top predator). Isotope ratios ( C, N) of fishes and invertebrates did not differ between lakes with and without anadromous Arctic charr; if anadromous Arctic charr deliver marine-derived nutrients and/or organic matter to freshwater lakes, these inputs could not be detected with C and/or N. Lake trout carbon (C): nitrogen (N) and condition were significantly higher in lakes with Arctic charr (C:N = 3.42, K = 1.1) than in lakes without Arctic charr (C:N = 3.17, K= 0.99), however, and ninespine stickleback (Pungitius pungitius) condition was significantly lower in lakes with Arctic charr (K = 0.58) than in lakes without Arctic charr (K= 0.64). Isotope data indicated that pre-smolt and resident Arctic charr may be prey for lake trout and compete with ninespine stickleback. Linear distance metrics applied to isotope data showed that food webs were more compact and isotopically redundant in lakes where Arctic charr were present. Despite this, lake trout populations in lakes with Arctic charr occupied a larger isotope space and showed greater inter-individual isotope differences. Anadromous Arctic charr appear to affect ecology and feeding of sympatric freshwater species, but effects are more subtle than those seen for semelparous anadromous species.
25470395|As invasive plants become a greater threat to native ecosystems, we need to improve our understanding of the factors underlying their success and persistence. Over the past 30 years, the C nonnative plant Bromus inermis (smooth brome) has been spreading throughout the central grasslands in North America. Invasion by this grass has resulted in the local displacement of natives, including the tallgrass species Panicum virgatum (switchgrass). To determine if factors related to resource availability and plant-soil interactions were conferring a competitive advantage on smooth brome, field plots were set up under varying nitrogen (N) levels. Plots composed of a 1:1 ratio of smooth brome and switchgrass were located in a restored tallgrass prairie and were randomly assigned one of the following three N levels: (a) NHNO added to increase available N, (b) sucrose added to reduce available N, and (c) no additions to serve as control. In addition, soil N status, soil respiration rates, plant growth, and litter decomposition rates were monitored. Results indicate that by the 2nd year, the addition of sucrose significantly reduced available soil N and additions of NHNO increased it. Further, smooth brome had greater tiller density, mass, and canopy interception of light on N-enriched soils, whereas none of these characteristics were stimulated by added N in the case of switch-grass. This suggests that smooth brome may have a competitive advantage on higher-N soils. Smooth-brome plant tissue also had a lower carbon-nitrogen (C:N) ratio and a higher decomposition rate than switchgrass and thus may cycle N more rapidly in the plant-soil system. These differences suggest a possible mechanism for the persistence of smooth brome in the tallgrass prairie: Efficient recycling of nutrient-rich litter under patches of smooth brome may confer a competitive advantage that enables it to persist in remnant or restored prairies. Increased N deposition associated with human activity and changing land use may play a critical role in the persistence of smooth brome and other N-philic exotic species.
40603658|Little is known about how tropical forest canopies interact with atmospheric nitrogen deposition and how this affects the internal nutrient dynamics and the processing of external nutrient inputs. The objectives of this study therefore were (1) to investigate gross and net canopy nitrogen (N) fluxes (retention and leaching) and (2) the effect of canopy components on net canopy N retention. Tracers were applied on detached branches in a tropical wet lowland rainforest, Costa Rica. A novel N pool dilution method showed that gross canopy fluxes (retention and leaching) of NO, NH , and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) were remarkably higher than net throughfall fluxes. Gross fluxes of NH and NO resulted in a negligible net flux whereas DON showed net uptake by the canopy. The highest quantity of N was recovered in epiphytic bryophytes (16.4%) although the largest biomass fraction was made up of leaves. The study demonstrates that tracer applications allow investigation of the dynamic and complex canopy exchange processes and that epiphytic communities play a major role in solute fluxes in tree canopies and therefore in the nutrient dynamics of tropical rain forests.
25470406|Coastal eutrophication may alter the dominance patterns of marine macroalgae, with potential consequences for the associated fauna and the entire ecosystem. Benthic macroalgae and animals in control and nutrient-enriched mesocosms were monitored to investigate eutrophication-induced changes in rocky shore communities. During a 3-year project, nutrient addition had only minor effects on the community structure, such as increased cover and biomass of green Ulva spp. and increased abundance of certain animal species at high nutrient levels. This study is a 4-year extension of a previously reported project, with 2 extra years of effect studies (altogether 5 years) and a subsequent 2 years for recovery. During the 4th year of nutrient enrichment, the cover of Fucus vesiculosus and Fucus serratus started to decline. In the 5th year, these canopy species crashed and there was an evident take-over by green algae at high nutrient addition levels. The previously observed abundance stimulation for fauna disappeared later in the time series, probably due to the loss of the macroalgal canopy. After less than 2 years on regular seawater, the algal and animal communities had returned to within the range of normal variability. The results indicate that established rocky shore communities of perennial algae with associated fauna are able to persist for several years, even at very high nutrient levels, but that community shifts may suddenly occur if eutrophication continues. They also indicate that rocky shore communities have the ability to return rapidly to natural undisturbed conditions after the termination of nutrient enhancement.
27823761|Forest age structure and its spatial arrangement are important elements of sustainable forestry because of their effects on biodiversity and timber availability. Forest management objectives that include specific forest age structure may not be easily attained due to constraints imposed by the legacies of historical management and natural disturbance. We used a spatially explicit stochastic model to explore the synergetic effects of forest management and fire on boreal forest age structure. Specifically, we examined (1) the duration of spatial legacies of different management practices in the boreal forest, (2) how multiple shifts in management practices affect legacy duration and the spatial trajectories of forest age structure, and (3) how fire influences legacy duration and pattern development in combination with harvesting. Results based on 30 replicates of 500 years for each scenario indicate that (1) spatial legacies persist over 200 years and the rate at which legacies are overcome depends on whether new management targets are in synchrony with existing spatial pattern; (2) age specific goals were met faster after multiple management shifts due to the similar spatial scale of the preceding management types; (3) because large fires can erase the spatial pattern created by smaller disturbances, scenarios with fire had shorter lags than scenarios without fire. These results suggest that forest management goals can be accelerated by applying management at a similar spatial scale as existing spatial patterns. Also, management planning should include careful consideration of historical management as well as current and likely future disturbances.
43677521|Woody debris decay rates have recently received much attention because of the need to quantify temporal changes in forest carbon stocks. Published decay rates, available for many species, are commonly used to characterize deadwood biomass and carbon depletion. However, decay rates are often derived from reductions in wood density through time, which when used to model biomass and carbon depletion are known to underestimate rate loss because they fail to account for volume reduction (changes in log shape) as decay progresses. We present a method for estimating changes in log volume through time and illustrate the method using a chronosequence approach. The method is based on the observation, confirmed herein, that decaying logs have a collapse ratio (cross-sectional height/width) that can serve as a surrogate for the volume remaining. Combining the resulting volume loss with concurrent changes in wood density from the same logs then allowed us to quantify biomass and carbon depletion for three study species. Results show that volume, density, and biomass follow distinct depletion curves during decomposition. Volume showed an initial lag period (log dimensions remained unchanged), even while wood density was being reduced. However, once volume depletion began, biomass loss (the product of density and volume depletion) occurred much more rapidly than density alone. At the temporal limit of our data, the proportion of the biomass remaining was roughly half that of the density remaining. Accounting for log volume depletion, as demonstrated in this study, provides a comprehensive characterization of deadwood decomposition, thereby improving biomassloss and carbon-accounting models.
3658812|We used long-term laboratory incubations and chemical fractionation to characterize the mineralization dynamics of organic soils from tussock, shrub, and wet meadow tundra communities, to determine the relationship between soil organic matter (SOM) decomposition and chemistry, and to quantify the relative proportions of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) in tundra SOM that are biologically available for decomposition. In all soils but shrub, we found little decline in respiration rates over 1 year, although soils respired approximately a tenth to a third of total soil C. The lack of decline in respiration rates despite large C losses indicates that the quantity of organic matter available was not controlling respiration and thus suggests that something else was limiting microbial activity. To determine the nature of the respired C, we analyzed soil chemistry before and after the incubation using a peat fractionation scheme. Despite the large losses of soil C, SOM chemistry was relatively unchanged after the incubation. The decomposition dynamics we observed suggest that tundra SOM, which is largely plant detritus, fits within existing concepts of the litter decay continuum. The lack of changes in organic matter chemistry indicates that this material had already decomposed to the point where the breakdown of labile constituents was tied to lignin decomposition. N mineralization was correlated with C mineralization in our study, but shrub soil mineralized more and tussock soil less N than would have been predicted by this correlation. Our results suggest that a large proportion of tundra SOM is potentially mineralizable, despite the fact that decomposition was dependent on ligning breakdown, and that the historical accumulation of organic matter in tundra soils is the result of field conditions unfavorable to decomposition and not the result of fundamental chemical limitations to decomposition. Our study also suggests that the anticipated increases in shrub dominance may substantially alter the dynamics of SOM decomposition in the tundra.
3658974|Ecosystems and city systems often form hierarchically structured landscapes whose spatial pattern is scale dependent. While trends in the upper tail of national city-size distributions leave the impression that fractal-scaling laws such as Zipf's law or the rank-size rule truly represent the essence of the system, the linearity depicted at aggregate scale actually obscures variation and discontinuity in the urban size-density function, including multimodalities evident in regional data sets. Tracing individual city trajectories through these hierarchical patterns reveals structural resilience at macroscopic scale, the punctuated growth of individual cities of differing sizes, the persistence and self-reinforcing character of spatial agglomeration, and a general need for further empirical investigation of the relationship between city size and growth. It also raises questions for future exploration, including the meaning of persistent departures from the power laws of traditional urban systems theory. Interpretation of such departures in the context of questions of jurisdictional scale in environmental management and "smart growth" policy adds a practical dimension to the research agenda.
3658705| A major environmental restoration effort is under way that will affect the Everglades and its neighboring ecosystems in southern Florida. Ecosystem and population-level modeling is being used to help in the planning and evaluation of this restoration. The specific objective of one of these modeling approaches, the Across Trophic Level System Simulation (ATLSS), is to predict the responses of a suite of higher trophic level species to several proposed alterations in Everglades hydrology. These include several species of wading birds, the snail kite, Cape Sable seaside sparrow, Florida panther, white-tailed deer, American alligator, and American crocodile. ATLSS is an ecosystem landscape-modeling approach and uses Geographic Information System (GIS) vegetation data and existing hydrology models for South Florida to provide the basic landscape for these species. A method of pseudotopography provides estimates of water depths through time at 28  28-m resolution across the landscape of southern Florida. Hydrologic model output drives models of habitat and prey availability for the higher trophic level species. Spatially explicit, individual-based computer models simulate these species. ATLSS simulations can compare the landscape dynamic spatial pattern of the species resulting from different proposed water management strategies. Here we compare the predicted effects of one possible change in water management in South Florida with the base case of no change. Preliminary model results predict substantial differences between these alternatives in some biotic spatial patterns. 
3658783|The frequency and extent of water limitation to aboveground net primary production (ANPP) in a mesic grassland in NE Kansas (Konza Prairie, USA) was assessed with an 8-year irrigation experiment. Since 1991, transects spanning upland and lowland sites in annually burned, ungrazed tallgrass prairie were provided with supplemental water to satisfy evapotranspirational demands. This protocol minimized water limitations during the growing season, as well as interannual variability in water stress. Irrigation of this mesic grassland increased ANPP in 6 of 8 years by an average of 26% when compared to control transects. Although interannual variation in ANPP was greater in uplands than lowlands at nominal levels of precipitation, reducing interannual variability in water availability via irrigation eliminated topographic differences; the irrigation protocol also reduced interannual variability in ANPP by as much as 40%. The addition of supplemental water enabled us to extend the relationship between annual precipitation and ANPP in grasslands to precipitation levels (average, 1153 mm; maximum, 1346 mm) similar to those experienced by more mesic grasslands that today exist only as remnants several hundred kilometers east of Kansas. This relationship was linear
3658943| Tropical dry forest is the most widely distributed land-cover type in the tropics. As the rate of land-use/land-cover change from forest to pasture or agriculture accelerates worldwide, it is becoming increasingly important to quantify the ecosystem biomass and carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) pools of both intact forests and converted sites. In the central coastal region of Mxico, we sampled total aboveground biomass (TAGB), and the N and C pools of two floodplain forests, three upland dry forests, and four pastures converted from dry forest. We also sampled belowground biomass and soil C and N pools in two sites of each land-cover type. The TAGB of floodplain forests was as high as
23501304|Predicting the ecological consequences of declining biodiversity is an urgent challenge, particularly in freshwater habitats where species declines and losses are among the highest. Small-scale experiments suggest potential ecosystem responses to losses of species, but definitive conclusions require verification at larger scales. We measured ecosystem metabolism and used whole-ecosystem stable isotope tracer additions to quantify nitrogen cycling in a tropical headwater stream before and after the sudden loss of amphibians to the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis. Tadpoles are normally dominant grazers in such streams, where greater than 18 species may co-occur and densities often exceed 50 individuals m -2 . Loss of 98% of tadpole biomass corresponded with greater than 2 increases in algae and fine detritus biomass in the stream and a greater than 50% reduction in nitrogen uptake rate. Nitrogen turnover rates in suspended and deposited organic sediments were also significantly lower after the decline. As a consequence, the stream cycled nitrogen less rapidly, and downstream exports of particulate N were reduced. Whole stream respiration was significantly lower following the decline, indicating less biological activity in the stream sediments. Contrary to our predictions, biomass of grazing invertebrates, or any invertebrate functional groups, did not increase over 2 years following loss of tadpoles. Thus, reductions in ecosystem processes linked to the amphibian decline were not compensated for by other, functionally redundant consumers. Declining animal biodiversity has ecosystem-level consequences that may not be offset by ecological redundancy, even in biologically diverse regions such as the Neotropics.
25470318|Nitrogen (N) fixed by termites was evaluated as a N input to decomposition processes in two tropical forests, a dry deciduous forest (DDF) and the neighboring dry evergreen forest (DEF), Thailand. A diverse group of termite species were assayed by acetylene reduction method and only the wood/litter-feeding termites were found to fix N. More intensive samplings of two abundant species, Microcerotermes crassus and Globitermes sulphureus, were done across several seasons, suggesting N fixation rates of 0.21 and 0.28 kg ha y by termites in the DDF and DEF, respectively. Also, estimates of asymbiotic N fixation rates were 0.75 and 3.95 kg ha y. N fixed by termites and by asymbiotic fixers is directly supplied to decomposers breaking down dead plant material and could be a major source of their N. N fixed by termites was 7-22% of that fixed by termites and asymbiotic fixers. Although N fixed by termites is a small input compared to other inputs, this N is likely important for decomposition processes.
3658631| Understanding of general ecosystem principles may be improved by comparing disparate ecosystems. We compared nutrient cycling in lakes and streams to evaluate whether contrasts in hydrologic properties lead to different controls and different rates of internal nutrient cycling. Our primary focus was nutrient cycling that results in increased productivity, so we quantified nutrient cycling by defining the recycling ratio () as the number of times a nutrient molecule is sequestered by producers before export. An analytic model of nutrient cycling predicted that in lakes  is governed by the processes that promote the mineralization and retard the sedimentation of particulate-bound nutrients, whereas in streams,  is governed by processes that promote the uptake and retard the export of dissolved nutrients. These differences were the consequence of contrast between lakes and streams in the mass-specific export rates (mass exported  standing
41505949|The enormity and complexity of problems like environmental degradation and biodiversity loss have led to the development of indicator species and other surrogate approaches to track changes in environments and/or in biodiversity. Under these approaches particular species or groups of species are used as proxies for other biota, particular environmental conditions, or for environmental change. The indicator species approach contrasts with a direct measurement approach in which the focus is on a single entity or a highly targeted subset of entities in a given ecosystem but no surrogacy relationships with unmeasured entities are assumed. Here, we present a broad philosophical discussion of the indicator species and direct measurement approaches because their relative advantages and disadvantages are not well understood by many researchers, resource managers and policy makers. A goal of the direct measurement approach is to demonstrate a causal relationship between key attributes of the target ecosystem system (for example, particular environmental conditions) and the entities selected for measurement. The key steps in the approach are based on the fundamental scientific principles of hypothesis testing and associated direct measurement that drive research activities, management activities and monitoring programs. The direct measurement approach is based on four critical assumptions:(1) the 'right' entities to measure have been selected, (2) these entities are well known, (3) there is sufficient understanding about key ecological processes and (4) the entities selected can be accurately measured. The direct measurement approach is reductionist and many elements of the biota, many biotic processes and environmental factors must be ignored because of practical considerations. The steps in applying the indicator species approach are broadly similar to the direct measurement approach, except surrogacy relationships also must be quantified between a supposed indicator species or indicator group and the factors for which it is purported to be a proxy. Such quantification needs to occur via: (1) determining the taxonomic, spatial and temporal bounds for which a surrogacy relationship does and does not hold. That is, the extent of transferability of a given surrogate such as an indicator species to other biotic groups, to landscapes, ecosystems, environmental circumstances or over time in the same location can be determined; and (2) determining the ecological mechanisms underpinning a surrogacy relationship (for example, through fundamental studies of community structure). Very few studies have rigorously addressed these two tasks, despite the extremely widespread use of the indicator species approach and similar kinds of surrogate schemes in virtually all fields of environmental, resource and conservation management. We argue that this has the potential to create significant problems; thus, the use of an indicator species approach needs to be better justified. Attempts to quantify surrogacy relationships may reveal that, in some circumstances, the alternative of direct measurement of particular entities of environmental or conservation interest will be the best option.
41505955|Wetlands support physical and ecological functions that result in valuable services to society, including removal of reactive nitrogen (Nr) from surface water and groundwater. We compiled published data from wetland studies worldwide to estimate total Nr removal and to evaluate factors that influence removal rates. Over several orders of magnitude in wetland area and Nr loading rates, there is a positive, near-linear relationship between Nr removal and Nr loading. The linear model (null hypothesis) explains the data better than either a model of declining Nr removal efficiency with increasing Nr loading, or a MichaelisMenten (saturation) model. We estimate that total Nr removal by major classes of wetlands in the contiguous U.S. is approximately 20-21% of the total anthropogenic load of Nr to the region. Worldwide, Nr removal by wetlands is roughly 17% of anthropogenic Nr inputs. Historical loss of 50% of native wetland area suggests an equivalent loss of Nr removal capacity. Expanded protection and large-scale restoration of wetlands should be considered in strategies to re-balance the global nitrogen cycle and mitigate the negative consequences of excess Nr loading.
25053868|Here we demonstrate, through experimental iron additions to a Mediterranean seagrass meadow, that iron plays a pivotal role in seagrass systems on carbonate sediments, directly through its role as a limiting nutrient, and indirectly by stimulating phosphorus recycling through the activity of the enzyme alkaline phosphatase and by buffering the development of reduced conditions in sediments. Iron additions were performed throughout the active root zone (30 cm depth) to two Posidonia oceanica meadows, one on organic-enriched sediments and one on organic poor sediments (Reference). Seagrass growth, nutrient incorporation and sediment biogeochemical conditions were followed for four months. Iron additions had positive effects on seagrass growth (leaf production increased with 55%) and nutrient incorporation (increased 46-91%) in the organic-enriched site, increasing to levels found at the Reference site. There was no effect of iron additions in the Reference seagrass meadow suggesting that iron was not the most important controlling factor at this site. The iron pools were about two times higher compared to the organic-enriched site. The main effect on the sediment biogeochemical conditions at the organic-enriched site was a suppression of sulfate reduction activity to the levels encountered at the Reference site (6.7 mmol
41505866|The fate of soil organic carbon (SOC) is determined, in part, by complex interactions between the quality of plant litter inputs, nutrient availability, and the microbial communities that control decomposition rates. This study explores these interactions in a mesic grassland where C and nitrogen (N) availability and plant litter quality have been manipulated using both fertilization and haying for 7 years. We measured a suite of soil parameters including inorganic N, extractable organic C and N (EOC and EON), soil moisture, extracellular enzyme activity (EEA), and the isotopic composition of C and N in the microbial biomass and substrate sources. We use these data to determine how the activity of microbial decomposers was influenced by varying levels of substrate C and N quality and quantity and to explore potential mechanisms explaining the fate of enhanced plant biomass inputs with fertilization. Oxidative EEA targeting relatively recalcitrant C pools was not affected by fertilization. EEA linked to the breakdown of relatively labile C rich substrates exhibited no relationship with inorganic N availability but was significantly greater with fertilization and associated increases in substrate quality. These increases in EEA were not related to an increase in microbial biomass C. The ratio of hydrolytic C:N acquisition enzymes and C and  N values of microbial biomass relative to bulk soil C and N, or EOC and EON suggest that microbial communities in fertilized plots were relatively C limited, a feature likely driving enhanced microbial efforts to acquire C from labile sources. These data suggest that in mesic grasslands, enhancements in biomass inputs and quality with fertilization can prompt an increase in EEA within the mineral soil profile with no significant increases in microbial biomass. Our work helps elucidate the microbially mediated fate of enhanced biomass inputs that are greater in magnitude than the associated increases in mineral soil organic matter.
41505927|The New Jersey Pine Barrens (NJPB) is the largest forested area along the northeastern coast of the United States. The NJPB are dominated by pine (Pinus spp.) and oak (Quercus spp.) stands that are fragmented and subject to frequent disturbance and forest management. Over long time periods (> 50 years), the balance between oak and pine dominance is determined by fire frequency. As a consequence, the ability of the NJPB to sequester carbon may be contingent upon management activities as well as patterns of historic land use. We simulated 100 years of carbon change using three scenarios: (1) contemporary management as reflected in the recent (1991-2006) fire records, (2) an increase in the fire ignitions within the wildland urban interface areas of the NJPB reflecting increased prescribed fires, and (3) a longer response time to wildfires, reflecting a more liberal burning policy by the New Jersey Forest Fire Service. We used the LANDIS-II model coupled with CENTURY and the Dynamic Fire and Dynamic Biomass Fuels extensions to estimate forest carbon sequestration based on these three scenarios. Calibration and validation via comparison to monthly flux tower data indicated that the model reasonably captured the timing and magnitude of net ecosystem exchange in the absence of Gypsy moth defoliation (r = 0.89). Under all scenarios, our simulations suggest that forests of the NJPB will continue to accumulate carbon over the next 100 years under current climatic conditions. Although aboveground net primary productivity, live carbon, and detrital carbon were roughly constant or increased only modestly, soil organic carbon continued to increase through time for all forest types except the highly xeric pine plains. Our simulated changes in management reflected only minor alterations to the fire regime and thus management may have only minor effects on total forest carbon budgets in the immediate future particularly when compared to recovery from historic disturbance patterns.
3658977|Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) accumulate substantial nutrients in their bodies as they grow to adulthood at sea. These nutrients are carried to predominantly oligotrophic lakes and streams, where they are released during and after spawning. Research over more than 3 decades has shown that the annual deposition of salmon-borne marine-derived nutrients (MD-nutrients) is important for the productivity of freshwater communities throughout the Pacific coastal region. However, the pathways and mechanisms for MD-nutrient transfer and accumulation in freshwater and riparian ecosystems remain virtually unexplored, consequently, there are many uncertainties in this area. This article addresses three related topics. First, we summarize recent advances in our understanding of the linkages among MD-nutrients, freshwater (including riparian) ecosystems, and community dynamics by addressing the importance of MD-nutrients to lakes and streams and by then reviewing large-scale and long-term processes in the atmosphere and ocean that govern variability in salmon populations. Second, we evaluate the validity of the discoveries and their implications for active ecosystem management, noting areas where extrapolation from these results still requires great caution. Finally, we outline five key research issues where additional discoveries could greatly augment our understanding of the processes shaping the structure and dynamics of salmon populations and the characteristics of their freshwater habitat and associated riparian zones. Collectively, the data suggest that the freshwater portion of the salmon production system is intimately linked to the ocean. Moreover, for the system to be sustainable, a holistic approach to management will be required. This holistic approach will need to treat climate cycles, salmon, riparian vegetation, predators, and MD-nutrient flowpaths and feedbacks as an integrated system.
23501489|To predict future changes in forest ecosystems, it is crucial to understand the complex processes involved in decline of tree species populations and to evaluate the implications for potential vegetation shifts. Here, we study patterns of decline (canopy defoliation and mortality of adults) of four Scots pine populations at the southern edge of its distribution and characterized by different combinations of climate dryness and intensity of past management. General linear and structural equation modeling were used to assess how biotic, abiotic, and management components interacted to explain the spatial variability of Scots pine decline across and within populations. Regeneration patterns of Scots pine and co-occurring oak species were analyzed to assess potential vegetation shifts. Decline trends were related to climatic dryness at the regional scale, but, ultimately, within-population forest structure, local site conditions, and past human legacies could be the main underlying drivers of Scots pine decline. Overall, Scots pine regeneration was negatively related to decline both within and between populations, whereas oak species responded to decline idiosyncratically across populations. Taken together, our results suggest that (1) patterns of decline are the result of processes acting at the plot level that modulate forest responses to local environmental stress and (2) decline of adult Scots pine trees seems not to be compensated by self-recruitment so that the future dynamics of these forest ecosystems are uncertain.
3658953|Increases in atmospheric greenhouse gases are driving significant changes in global climate. To project potential vegetation response to future climate change, this study uses response surfaces to describe the relationship between bioclimatic variables and the distribution of tree and shrub taxa in western North America. The response surfaces illustrate the probability of the occurrence of a taxon at particular points in climate space. Climate space was defined using three bioclimatic variables: mean temperature of the coldest month, growing degree days, and a moisture index. Species distributions were simulated under present climate using observed data (1951-80, 30-year mean) and under future climate (2090-99, 10-year mean) using scenarios generated by three general circulation models-HADCM2, CGCM1, and CSIRO. The scenarios assume a 1% per year compound increase in greenhouse gases and changes in sulfate
41505965|We investigated the variability of soil respiration and several potential regulatory factors and modeled their interrelationships from May to August over a 5-year period in oak forests subjected to alternative harvesting treatments as part of the Missouri Ozark Forest Ecosystem Project (MOFEP). Treatments included even-aged management (EAM), uneven-aged management (UAM), and no-harvest management (NHM) and were implemented 7-8 years prior to this study. Summer mean soil respiration did not differ among the treatments, possibly because of changes in treatment differences in the separate months and years that tended to cancel each other out when averaged. Summer mean soil respiration and soil moisture tended to be higher in wet years (2004, 2006, and 2008) and lower in dry years (2005 and 2007) in EAM and UAM than in NHM. Summer precipitation was assumed to be the primary driver of variability in summer mean soil respiration through its control on soil moisture and the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) in the harvested forests. Nonlinear models using soil temperature, soil moisture and day-of-the-year (DOY) were used to predict within-summer soil respiration for all the treatments. A sensitivity analysis of the model using 30 min interval data suggested that soil respiration was more sensitive to soil moisture in the EAM and UAM treatments than in NHM. We also found a change in the soil respiration-soil temperature relationship in the summer for all the treatments. Simulated data sets that removed the covariance structure between soil temperature and moisture suggested that the change in the respiration-temperature relationship resulted from the combined effect of moisture stress and low temperature sensitivity at high temperatures during July and August. Simulations also showed the effect of moisture stress to be more limiting to soil respiration in the harvested forests than in the control at high temperatures, even resulting in a negative relationship at high temperatures.
23253696|There are concerns that recent fires, following a century of land uses, are burning in dry western forests in an uncharacteristic manner with large patches of higher-severity fire affecting long-term ecosystem dynamics. For example, it is well documented that a mixed-severity fire regime predominated over montane forests of the Colorado Front Range. However, much about the historical fire regime is unknown including the size, frequency, and distribution of higher-severity fires. We addressed these questions utilizing data from the original land surveyors who recorded locations of burned timber along survey lines resulting in a coarse-scale transect of fire occurrence across 624,156 ha. We reconstructed higher-severity burn patches, size distribution, and fire rotation for the 1800s (A.D. 18091883) and compared to the characteristics of modern fires over a recent 26-year period (A.D. 19842009) taken from remotely sensed data. We found the historical geometric mean higher-severity patch was 170.9 ha and the maximum patch size was 8,331 ha; the higher-severity fire rotation was 248.7 years. In addition, we confirmed that higher-severity fires were historically less common at elevations below 2,200 m. Modern fires had a geometric mean patch size of 90.0 ha (patches > 20 ha) and a maximum size of 5,183 ha; the higher-severity fire rotation was 431 years. The distributions of higher-severity patches were only 63.5% similar, as the historical distribution had fewer small patches and more large patches. The mixed-severity fire regime, historically, included a significant portion of higher-severity fire and large burn patches; modern fires appear to be within the range of historical variability.
41505907|Nutrients and energy derived from marine autotrophs subsidize shore ecosystems, increasing productivity and affecting food web dynamics and structure. In this study we examined how the inland reach of such inflow effects depends on vectors carrying the marine inflow inland and on landscape structure. We used stable isotopes of carbon and nitrogen to examine the roles of arthropod vectors in carrying marine-derived nutrients inland in two very different shore ecosystems: shore meadows in Sweden with marine inflows of algae and emerging chironomid midges; and sandy beaches and shore dunes in south-western Australia with marine inflows of algae and seagrass. In a colonization experiment we found that deposited wrack on the beach is quickly colonized by both grazers and predators. However, in both systems we found a larger inland reach of the marine subsidy than could be accounted for by deposited macrophytes on shores alone, and that dipterans and spiders potentially functioned as vectors for the inflow. Our results indicate that marine inflows are important for near-shore terrestrial ecosystems well above the water's edge, and that this effect is largely due to arthropod vectors (mainly dipterans and spiders) in both low-productivity sandy beach ecosystems at the Indian Ocean coast of Australia, and more productive shore meadows on the Baltic Sea coast of Sweden. Our findings also suggest that the type of vector transporting marine material inland may be as important as the productivity contrast between ecosystems for explaining the degree of marine influence on the terrestrial system.
27823725|Integration of habitat heterogeneity into spatially realistic metapopulation approaches reveals the potential for key cross-scale interactions. Broadscale environmental gradients and land-use practices can create autocorrelation of habitat quality of suitable patches at intermediate spatial scales. Patch occupancy then depends not only on habitat quality at the patch scale but also on feedbacks from surrounding neighborhoods of autocorrelated patches. Metapopulation dynamics emerge from how demographic and dispersal processes interact with relevant habitat heterogeneity. We provide an empirical example from a metapopulation of round-tailed muskrats (Neofiber alleni) in which habitat quality of suitable patches was spatially autocorrelated most strongly within 1,000 m, which was within the expected dispersal range of the species. After controlling for factors typically considered in metapopulation studiespatch size, local patch quality, patch connectivitywe use a cross-variogram analysis to demonstrate that patch occupancy by muskrats was correlated with habitat quality across scales  1,171 m. We also discuss general consequences of spatial heterogeneity of habitat quality for metapopulations related to potential cross-scale interactions. We focus on spatially correlated extinctions and metapopulation persistence, hierarchical scaling of sourcesink dynamics, and dispersal decisions by individuals in relation to information constraints.
3658739| We used a novel, nonintrusive experimental system to examine plant responses to warming and drought across a climatic and geographical latitudinal gradient of shrubland ecosystems in four sites from northern to southern Europe (UK, Denmark, The Netherlands, and Spain). In the first two years of experimentation reported here, we measured plant cover and biomass by the pinpoint method, plant
25470384|Net primary production (NPP) is a fundamental characteristic of all ecosystems and foundational to understanding the fluxes of energy and nutrients. Because NPP cannot be measured directly, researchers use field-measured surrogates as input variables in various equations designed to estimate 'true NPP'. This debate led to considerable debate concerning which equations most accurately estimate 'true NPP'. This debate has influenced efforts to assess NPP in grasslands, with researchers often advocating more complex equations to avoid underestimation. However, this approach ignores the increase in statistical error associated with NPP estimates as a greater number of parameters and more complex mathematical functions are introduced into the equation. Using published grassland data and Monte Carlo simulation techniques, we assessed the relative variability in NPP estimates obtained using six different NPP estimation equations that varied in both the number of parameters and intricacy of mathematical operations. Our results indicated that more complex equations may result in greater uncertainty without reducing the probability of underestimation. The amount of uncertainty associated with estimates of NPP was influenced by the number of parameters as well as the variability in the data and the nature of the mathematical operations. For example, due to greater variability in the field-measured belowground data than aboveground data, estimates of belowground NPP tended to have more uncertainty than estimates of aboveground NPP. An analysis in which the input data were standardized allowed us to isolate the details of the calculations from the variability in the data in assessing the propagation of uncertainty. This analysis made clear that equations with product terms have the potential to magnify the uncertainty of the inputs in the estimates of NPP although this relationship was complicated by interactions with data variability and number of parameters. Our results suggest that more complex NPP estimation equations can increase uncertainty without necessarily reducing risk of underestimation. Because estimates can never be tested by comparison to "true NPP", we recommend that researchers include an assessment of propagation of statistical error when evaluating the 'best' estimation method.
3659058|A field experiment was performed in which the richness of perennial grasses (S) was varied in model ecosystems exposed to a simulated heat wave (free air temperature increase and drought). The proportion of individuals that survived the heat wave decreased with S, which could be ascribed to higher water consumption in the species-rich systems. Higher transpiration at high diversity was also observed in other studies using functional groups and could have originated from increased leaf area, less intense stomatal closure, or a combination of both. The increased tiller number per plant that we observed, while leaf area per tiller remained constant, suggests that an enhanced leaf area index was most likely responsible. However, competitive interactions also seemed to play a role in the influence of S on survival. Regrowth of the surviving individuals, expressed as leaf area per living plant after a recovery period following the heat wave, increased with S, most likely due to the dominance of productive species, which was facilitated by the additional space yielded by more intense gap formation at higher S (due to higher plant mortality). Species richness affected both the size and density of the gaps. Mean size increased exponentially with S, while density increased at low S but decreased at higher S when connectance of the gaps occurred. Size distribution of the gaps was not affected.
25470313|An ecological threshold is the point at which there is an abrupt change in an ecosystem quality, property or phenomenon, or where small changes in an environmental driver produce large responses in the ecosystem. Analysis of thresholds is complicated by nonlinear dynamics and by multiple factor controls that operate at diverse spatial and temporal scales. These complexities have challenged the use and utility of threshold concepts in environmental management despite great concern about preventing dramatic state changes in valued ecosystems, the need for determining critical pollutant loads and the ubiquity of other threshold-based environmental problems. In this paper we define the scope of the thresholds concept in ecological science and discuss methods for identifying and investigating thresholds using a variety of examples from terrestrial and aquatic environments, at ecosystem, landscape and regional scales. We end with a discussion of key research needs in this area.
3658677|Social insect societies are complex adaptive systems that self-organize within a set of constraints. Although it is important to acknowledge that global order in social insects can arise as a result of internal interactions among insects, it is equally important to include external factors and constraints in the picture, especially as the colony and its environment may influence each other through interactions among internal and external factors. The scope of this remark goes beyond social insects and applies to a wide range of biological systems, including ecosystems.
40928244|The Everglades freshwater marl prairie is a dynamic and spatially heterogeneous landscape, containing thousands of tree islands nested within a marsh matrix. Spatial processes underlie population and community dynamics across the mosaic, especially the balance between woody and graminoid components, and landscape patterns reflect interactions among multiple biotic and abiotic drivers. To better understand these complex, multi-scaled relationships we employed a three-tiered hierarchical design to investigate the effects of seed source, hydrology, and more indirectly fire on the establishment of new woody recruits in the marsh, and to assess current tree island patterning across the landscape. Our analyses were conducted at the ground level at two scales, which we term the micro- and meso-scapes, and results were related to remotely detected tree island distributions assessed in the broader landscape, that is, the macro-scape. Seed source and hydrologie effects on recruitment in the micro- and meso-scapes were analyzed via logistic regression, and spatial aggregation in the macro-scape was evaluated using a grid-based univariate O-ring function. Results varied among regions and scales but several general trends were observed. The patterning of adult populations was the strongest driver of recruitment in the microand meso-scape prairies, with recruits frequently aggregating around adults or tree islands. However in the macro-scape biologically associated (second order) aggregation was rare, suggesting that emergent woody patches are heavily controlled by underlying physical and environmental factors such as topography, hydrology, and fire.
25470422|Human activities are altering biodiversity and the nitrogen (N) cycle, affecting terrestrial carbon (C) cycling globally. Only a few specialized bacteria carry out nitrification-the transformation of ammonium (NH) to nitrate (NO), in terrestrial ecosystems, which determines the form and mobility of inorganic N in soils. However, the control of nitrification on C cycling in natural ecosystems is poorly understood. In an ecosystem experiment in the Patagonian steppe, we inhibited autotrophic nitrification and measured its effects on C and N cycling. Decreased net nitrification increased total mineral N and NH and reduced NO in the soil. Plant cover (P < 0.05) and decomposition (P < 0.0001) decreased with inhibition of nitrification, in spite of increases in NH availability. There were significant changes in the natural abundance of N in the dominant vegetation when nitrification was inhibited suggesting that a switch occurred in the form of N (from NO to NH) taken up by plants. Results from a controlled-condition experiment supported the field results by showing that the dominant plant species of the Patagonian steppe have a marked preference for nitrate. Our results indicate that nitrifying bacteria exert a major control on ecosystem functioning, and that the inhibition of nitrification results in significant alteration of the C cycle. The interactions between the C and N cycles suggest that rates of C cycling are affected not just by the amount of available N, but also by the relative availability for plant uptake of NH and NO.
25622897|Elaeagnus angustifolia L., a nonnative N-fixer, has established within riparian corridors of the interior western United States and is now the fourth most frequently occuring woody riparian plant in this region. We examined whether E. angustifolia alters pools and fluxes of soil inorganic N at eight sites dominated by Populus deltoides ssp. wislizeni along the Rio Grande in New Mexico over 2 years. E. angustifolia contributed a small fraction of total leaf fall (<5% across sites) but accounted for a disproportionately high amount of N (19%) that entered the system from P. deltoides and E. angustifolia leaf fall, due to the high N content (>2%) of E. angustifolia senesced leaves. Soil inorganic N concentrations and potential rates of nitrification and net N mineralization varied across sites. E. angustifolia leaf fall explained 59% of the variation in soil inorganic N concentrations across years. This relationship suggests that inputs of N-righ leaf litter from E. angustifolia may increase N availability in riparian soils. We detected no relationship between E. angustifolia leaf fall and fluxes of soil inorganic N, whereas others have measured both stimulation and inhibition of soil N cycling by E. angustifolia. Greater abundance of N-fixing species in riparian forests may augment growth of neighboring plants or increase N export to rivers. Given these possibilities, ecosystem studies and restoration projects should further examine the potential for E. angustifolia to affect N pools and fluxes along western North American rivers.
40603506|Public forests are surrounded by land over which agency managers have no control, and whose owners expect the public forest to be a "good neighbor." Fire risk abatement on multi-owner landscapes containing flammable but fire-dependent ecosystems epitomizes the complexities of managing public lands. We report a case study that applies a landscape disturbance and succession model (LANDIS) to evaluate the relative effective - ness of four alternative fire mitigation strategies on the Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest (Wisconsin, USA), where fire-dependent pine and oak systems overlap with a rapidly developing wildland-urban interface (WUI). We incorporated timber management of the current forest plan and fire characteristics (ignition patterns, fire sizes, and fuel-specific fire spread rates) typical for the region under current fire suppression policies, using a combination of previously published fire analyses and interactive expert opinion from the national forest. Of the fire mitigation strategies evaluated, reduction of ignitions caused by debris-burning had the strongest influence on fire risk, followed by the strategic redistribution of risky forest types away from the high ignition rates of the WUI. Other treatments (fire breaks and reducing roadside ignitions) were less effective. Escaped fires, although rare, introduced significant uncertainty in the simulations and are expected to complicate fire management planning. Simulations also show that long-term maintenance of fire-dependent communities (that is, pine and oak) representing the greatest forest fire risk requires active management. Resolving conflict between the survival of fire-dependent communities that are regionally declining and continued rural development requires strategic planning that accounts for multiowner activities.
23501491|Nitrogen (N) fixing trees including many species of Acacia are an important though variable component of savanna ecosystems. It is known that these trees enrich the soil with carbon (C) and N, but their effect on the combined C:N:P stoichiometry in soil is less well understood. Theory suggests that they might reduce available phosphorus (P), creating a shift from more N-limited conditions in grass-dominated to more P-limited conditions in tree-dominated sites, which in turn could feed back negatively on the trees' capacity to fix N. We studied the effects of Acacia zanzibarica tree density upon soil and foliar N:P stoichiometry, and the N 2 -fixation rates of trees and leguminous herbs in a humid Tanzanian savanna. Foliar N:P ratios and N 2 -fixation rates of trees remained constant across the density gradient, whereas soil C, N and organic P pools increased. In contrast, the N:P ratio of grasses increased and N 2 -fixation rates of leguminous herbs decreased with increasing tree density, indicating a shift towards more P-limited conditions for the understory vegetation. These contrasting responses suggest that trees and grasses have access to different sources of N and P, with trees being able to access P from deeper soil layers and perhaps also utilizing organic forms more efficiently.
25470424|Understanding the long-term ecological dynamics of northern peatlands is essential for assessment of the possible responses and feedbacks of these carbon-rich ecosystems to climate change and natural disturbance. I used high-resolution macrofossil and lithological analyses of a fen peatland in western Canada to infer the Holocene developmental history of the peatland, to document the temporal pattern of long-term peat accumulation, and to investigate ecosystems responses to climate changes in terms of species composition and carbon accumulation. The peatland has been dominated by sedges and brown mosses during its 10,000-year history, despite interruption by tephra deposition. Peat accumulation rates vary by more than an order of magnitude and decline from 5500 to 1300 cal BP, resulting in a convex depth-age curve, which contrasts with the carbon accumulation patterns documented for oceanic peatlands. The synthesis of regional data from continental western Canada indicates that fens tend to accumulate more carbon than bogs of the same ages. These data suggest that the carbon sink potential of northern peatlands has varied dramatically in the past, so estimates of the present and projected carbon sink strengths of these peatlands need to take this temporal variation into consideration. Widespread slowdown of peat accumulation over the last 4000 years may have resulted from climate cooling in northern latitudes after the Holocene insolation maximum. The findings indicate that long-term peatland dynamics are modified by many local and regional factors and that gradual environmental change may be capable of triggering abrupt shifts and jumps in ecosystem states.
3658920|Because of the water-limited nature and discontinuous plant cover of shortgrass steppe, spatial patterns in ecosystem properties are influenced more by the presence or absence of plants than by plant type. However, plant type may influence temporal patterns of nutrient cycling between plant and soil. Plants having the carbon-3 ( C
25470344|Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) of grasslands varies spatially and temporally. Spectral information provided by remote sensors is a promising new tool that may be able to estimate ANPP in real time and at low cost. The objectives of this study were (a) to evaluate at a seasonal scale the relationship between ANPP and the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), (b) to estimate seasonal variations in the coefficient of conversion of absorbed radiation into aboveground biomass (), and (c) to identify the environmental controls on such temporal changes. We used biomass-based field determinations of ANPP for two grassland sites in the Flooding Pampa, Argentina, and related them with NDVI data derived from the NOAA Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellites using three different models. Results were compared with data obtained from the new Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor at an additional site. The first model was based solely on NDVI; the second was based on the amount of photosynthetically active radiation absorbed by the green vegetation
40603438|Nineteen small lakes located in open landscapes or deciduous forests in nutrient-rich calcareous moraines in North Zealand, Denmark, were all net heterotrophic having negative net ecosystem production and predominant CO supersaturation and O undersaturation of lake waters. Forest lakes were poorer in nutrients, phytoplankton, and primary production, but richer in dissolved organic matter and CO than open lakes with more light available. The modeled annual balance between gross primary production and community respiration (GPP/R COM ) averaged 0.60 in forest lakes and 0.76 in open lakes and the ratio increased significantly with phosphorus concentration and phytoplankton biomass but decreased with colored dissolved organic matter. The negative daily rates of ecosystem production resembled estimates of oxygen uptake from the atmosphere to the lakes, whereas estimates of CO emission were 7.2-fold higher. Although COrich groundwater and anaerobic respiration support greater molar release of CO than uptake of O, we suggest CO emission is overestimated. Possible explanations include CO enrichment of the air film above small wind-sheltered lakes. The observed metabolism and gas exchange show that exogenous organic matter is an important supplementary energy source to community respiration in these small lakes and that forest lakes, in addition, experience pronounced light attenuation from trees and dissolved colored organic matter constraining primary production.
3658844|As the human demand for freshwater natural resources such as fish and drinking water increases, we may rely more heavily on models to predict the response of aquatic ecosystems to natural and anthropogenic disturbance. Theses models in turn implicitly depend on the underlying spatial distribution of organisms. In terrestrial ecosystems, increased natural resource utilization has transformed habitat and changed the spatial distribution of organisms, with subsequent negative effects on biota. Recent studies in lakes demonstrate that human development of lakeshores alters the physical habitat and nutrient cycles. The impact of such disturbance by humans on the spatial distribution of aquatic organisms, however, remains unknown. Here we quantify the effect of lakeshore development on the spatial distribution of fishes in 23 lakes in the US Pacific Northwest. We found a significant decrease in the spatial aggregation of fishes with increased shoreline development by humans, reflecting a loss of refugia and resource heterogeneity that favors aggregation among fishes. We also found that lakes with a high perimeter-surface-area ratio and a relatively shallow littoral zone had much higher levels of fish aggregation, suggesting the importance of terrestrial inputs to lakes. Finally, we found a marginally significant decrease in fish spatial aggregation with increased total phosphorus concentration, but no effect of chlorophyll concentration, water transparency, the predator-prey ratio, or number of species on fish spatial distributions. These results suggest that anthropogenic modification of shorelines is significantly altering the spatial distribution of important aquatic organisms, and that these changes may have important implications for predictive modeling of ecosystem dynamics.
40603435|In the present study we analyzed the combined effects of management (grazing, mowing, prescribed burning, sod-cutting) and atmospheric deposition on N and P budgets of heathland ecosystems (Lneburger Heide nature reserve; N Germany). We hypothesize that management measures such as grazing and mowing can accelerate a deposition-induced imbalance of N and P pools as a result of a disproportionally high output of P. We analyzed management and deposition affected input-output flows of N and P and related them to changes in the nutritional status of Calluna vulgaris 5 years after treatment application. We found that grazing and mowing caused the highest net loss of P due to high P concentrations in the aboveground biomass. In contrast, prescribed burning only slightly affected P pools, as P remained in the system due to ash deposition. Management mediated effects on N and P pools were mirrored in the nutritional status of Calluna vulgaris: at the grazed and mown sites, the P content of current season's shoots significantly decreased within 5 years after treatments, whereas the N content remained unchanged. We conclude that grazing and mowing can accelerate declining availability of P and, thus, accelerate a depositioninduced shift from N- to P-limited plant growth in the medium term. In the face of ongoing atmospheric N loads management schemes need to combine high-and low-intensity measures to maintain both a diverse structure and balanced nutrient budgets in the long term.
41505922|River-floodplain systems are amongst the most productivebut often severely impactedaquatic systems worldwide. We explored the ecological response of fish to flow regime in a large riverfloodplain system by studying the relationships between (1) discharge and inundated floodplain area, with a focus on spatial and temporal patterns in floodplain lake connectivity, and (2) flood volume and fisheries catch. Our results demonstrate a non-linear relationship between discharge and floodplain inundation with considerable hysteresis due to differences in inundation and drainage rate. Inundation extent was mostly determined by flood volume, not peak discharge. We found that the more isolated lakes (that is, lakes with a shorter connection duration to the river) are located at higher local elevation and at larger hydrological distance from the main rivers: geographical distance to the river appears a poor predictor of lake isolation. Although year-to-year fish catches in the floodplain were significantly larger with larger flood volumes in the floodplain, they were not in the main river, suggesting that mechanisms that increase catch, such as increased floodplain access or increased somatic growth, are stimulated by flooding in the floodplain, but not in the river. Fish species that profit from flooding belong to different feeding guilds, suggesting that all trophic levels may benefit from flooding. We found indications that the ecological functioning of floodplains is not limited to its temporary availability as habitat. Refugia can be present within the floodplain itself, which should be considered in the management of large rivers and their floodplain.
3658901|Trees allocate a large portion of gross primary production belowground for the production and maintenance of roots and mycorrhizae. The difficulty of directly measuring total belowground carbon allocation (TBCA) has limited our understanding of belowground carbon (C) cycling and the factors that control this important flux. We measured TBCA over 4 years using a conservation of mass, C balance approach in replicate stands of fast growing Eucalyptus saligna Smith with different nutrition management and tree density treatments. We measured TBCA as surface carbon dioxide ( CO
3658751|We review and compare well-studied examples of five large, infrequent disturbances (LIDs)-fire, hurricanes, tornadoes, volcanic eruptions, and floods-in terms of the physical processes involved, the damage patterns they create in forested landscapes, and the potential impacts of those patterns on subsequent forest development. Our examples include the 1988 Yellowstone fires, the 1938 New England hurricane, the 1985 Tionesta tornado, the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, and the 1993 Mississippi floods. The resulting landscape patterns are strongly controlled by interactions between the specific disturbance, the abiotic environment (especially topography), and the composition and structure of the vegetation at the time of the disturbance. The very different natures of these interactions yield distinctive temporal and spatial patterns and demand that ecologists increase their knowledge of the physical characteristics of disturbance processes. Floods and fires can occur over a long period, whereas volcanic eruptions and wind-driven events often last for no more than a few hours or days. Tornadoes and floods produce linear patterns with sharp edges, but fires, volcanic eruptions, and hurricanes can affect broader areas, often with gradual transitions of disturbance intensity. In all cases, the evidence suggests that LIDs produce enduring legacies of physical and biological structure that influence ecosystem processes for decades or centuries.
41505909|Fire influences carbon dynamics from local to global scales, but many uncertainties remain regarding the remote detection and simulation of heterogeneous fire effects. This study integrates Landsat-based remote sensing and Biome-BGC process modeling to simulate the effects of high-, moderate-, and lowseverity fire on pyrogenic emissions, tree mortality, and net ecosystem production. The simulation area (244,600 ha) encompasses four fires that burned approximately 50,000 ha in 2002-2003 across the Metolius Watershed, Oregon, USA, as well as in situ measurements of postfire carbon pools and fluxes that we use for model evaluation. Simulated total pyrogenic emissions were 0.732 Tg C (2.4% of equivalent statewide anthropogenic carbon emissions over the same 2-year period). The simulated total carbon transfer due to tree mortality was fourfold higher than pyrogenic carbon emissions, but dead wood decomposition will occur over decades. Immediately postfire, burned areas were a simulated carbon source (net C exchange: -0.076 Tg C y; mean  SD: -142  121 g C m y). As expected, high-severity, stand-replacement fire had disproportionate carbon impacts. The per-unit area effects of moderate-severity fire were substantial, however, and the extent of low-severity fire merits its inclusion in landscape-scale analyses. These results demonstrate the potential to reduce uncertainties in landscape to regional carbon budgets by leveraging Landsat-based fire products that account for both stand-replacement and partial disturbance.
25622885|Humid tropical forests are often characterized by large nitrogen (N) pools, and are known to have large potential N losses. Although rarely measured, tropical forests likely maintain considerable biological N fixation (BNF) to balance N losses. We estimated inputs of N via BNF by free-living microbes for two tropical forests in Puerto Rico, and assessed the response to increased N availability using an on-going N fertilization experiment. Nitrogenase activity was measured across forest strata, including the soil, forest floor, mosses, canopy epiphylls, and lichens using acetylene (CH) reduction assays. BNF varied significantly among ecosystem compartments in both forests. Mosses had the highest rates of nitrogenase activity per gram of sample, with 11  6 nmol CH reduced/g dry weight/h (mean  SE) in a lower elevation forest, and 6  1 nmol CH/g/h in an upper elevation forest. We calculated potential N fluxes via BNF to each forest compartment using surveys of standing stocks. Soils and mosses provided the largest potential inputs of N via BNF to these ecosystems. Summing all components, total back-ground BNF inputs were 120  29 g N/m/h in the lower elevation forest, and 95  15 g N/m/h in the upper elevation forest, with added N significantly suppressing BNF in soils and forest floor. Moisture content was significantly positively correlated with BNF rates for soils and the forest floor. We conclude that BNF is an active biological process across forest strata for these tropical forests, and is likely to be sensitive to increases in N deposition in tropical regions.
41413966|Temporally variable and reciprocal subsidies between ecosystems are ubiquitous. These spatial flows can generate a suite of direct and indirect effects in local and meta-ecosystems. The focus of most subsidy research, however, has been on the response of consumers in recipient ecosystems to constant subsidies over very short or very long time scales. We derive a meta-ecosystem model to explicitly consider the dynamic feedbacks between local ecosystems coupled through reciprocal pulsed subsidies. We predict oscillating reinforcing and dampening effects of reciprocal pulsed herbivore flows. Maximum reinforcing effects between reciprocal pulsed herbivore flows occur when these flows are in phase with the dynamics of neighboring predators. This prediction is robust to a range of pulse quantities and frequencies. Reciprocal pulsed herbivore subsidies lead to spatial and temporal variability in the strength of trophic cascades in local and meta-ecosystems but these cascading effects are the strongest when reciprocal pulsed subsidies are temporally concentrated. When predators demonstrate a behavioral response to prey abundance, reciprocal pulsed subsidies dampen the strength of local trophic cascades but lead to strong trophic cascades across local ecosystems. The timing of reciprocal pulsed subsidies is a critical component that determines the cascading effects of spatial flows. We show that spatial and temporal variabilities in resources and consumers can have a significant influence on the strength of cascading trophic interactions; therefore, our ability to detect and understand trophic cascades may depend on the scale of inquiry of ecological studies.
27823679|A key issue in ecosystem management in the western U.S. is the determination of the historic range of variability of fire and its ecological significance prior to major land-use changes associated with Euro-American settlement. The present study relates spatial variation in historical fire occurrence to variation in abiotic and biotic predictors of fire frequency and severity across the elevational range of ponderosa pine in northern Colorado. Logistic regression was used to relate fire frequency to environmental predictors and to derive a probability surface for mapping purposes. These results indicate that less than 20% of the ponderosa pine zone had an historic fire regime (pre-1915) of relatively frequent fires (mean fire intervals, MFI, <30 years). More than 80% is reconstructed to have had a lower frequency (MFI  30 years), more variable severity fire regime. High fire frequency is clearly associated with low elevations. Lower and more variable fire frequencies, associated with high and moderate severities, occur across a broad range of elevation and are related to variations in other environmental variables. Only a small part of the ponderosa pine zone fits the widespread view that the historic fire regime was characterized mainly by frequent, low-severity that maintained open conditions. Management attempts to restore historic forest structures and/or fire conditions must recognize that infrequent severe fires were an important component of the historic fire regime in this cover type in northern Colorado.
40296365|Nitrogen variations at different spatial scales and integrated across functional groups were addressed for lowland tropical forests in the Brazilian Amazon as follows: (1) how does N availability vary across the region over different spatial scales (regional  landscape scale); (2) how are these variations in N availability integrated across plant functional groups (legume  non-legume trees). Leaf N, P, and Ca concentrations as well the leaf N isotope ratios (N) from a large set of legume and nonlegume tree species were measured. Legumes had higher foliar N/Ca ratios than non-legumes, consistent with the high energetic costs in plant growth associated with higher foliar P/Ca ratios found in legumes than in non-legumes. At the regional level, foliar N decreased with increasing rainfall. At the landscape level, N availability was higher in the forests on clayey soils on the plateau than in forests on sandier soils. The isotope as well as the non-isotope data relationships here documented, explain to a large extent the variation in N signatures across gradients of rainfall and soil. Although at the regional level, the precipitation regime is a major determinant of differences in N availability, at the landscape level, under the same precipitation regime, soil type seems to be a major factor influencing the availability of N in the Brazilian Amazon forest.
41505873|We used sugar maple litter double-labeled with C and N to quantify fluxes of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) between litter and soil in a northern hardwood forest and the retention of litter C and N in soil. Two cohorts of litter were compared, one in which the label was preferentially incorporated into non-structural tissue and the other structural tissue. Loss of C from this litter generally followed dry mass and total C loss whereas loss of N (20-30% in 1 year) was accompanied by large increases of total N content of this decaying litter (26-32%). Enrichment of C and N was detected in soil down to 10-15 cm depth. After 6 months of decay (November-May) 36-43% of the C released from the litter was recovered in the soil, with no differences between the structural and non-structural labeled litter. By October the percentage recovery of litter C in soil was much lower (16%). The C released from litter and remaining in soil organic matter (SOM) after 1 year represented over 30 g C m y of SOM accumulation. Recovery of litter N in soil was much higher than for C (over 90%) and in May N was mostly in organic horizons whereas by October it was mostly in 0-10 cm mineral soil. A small proportion of this N was recovered as inorganic N (2-6%). Recovery of N in microbial biomass was higher in May (13-15%) than in October (about 5%). The C:N ratio of the SOM and microbial biomass derived from the labeled litter was much higher for the structural than the non-structural litter and for the forest floor than mineral SOM, illustrating the interactive role of substrates and microbial activity in regulating the C:N stoichiometry of forest SOM formation. These results for a forest ecosystem long exposed to chronically high atmospheric N deposition (ca. 10 kg N ha y) suggest possible mechanisms of N retention in soil: increased organic N leaching from fresh litter and reduced fungal transport of N from soil to decaying litter may promote N stabilization in mineral SOM even at a relatively low C:N ratio.
3658791|We evaluated nitrogen (N) removal efficiency by riparian buffers at 14 sites scattered throughout seven European countries subject to a wide range of climatic conditions. The sites also had a wide range of nitrate inputs, soil characteristics, and vegetation types. Dissolved forms of N in groundwater and associated hydrological parameters were measured at all sites; these data were used to calculate nitrate removal by the riparian buffers. Nitrate removal rates (expressed as the difference between the input and output nitrate concentration in relation to the width of the riparian zone) were mainly positive, ranging from
25470316|We examined the patterns of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) gain, retention or loss in ten foliar tissues in a litterbag experiment over 6 years at 18 upland forest sites in Canada, ranging from subarctic to cool temperate. N was usually retained in the decomposing litter until about 50% of the original C remained. The peak N content in the litter was observed at between 72 and 99% of the original C remaining, with C:N mass quotients between 37 and 71 (mean 55). The rate of N release from the litters was not related to the original N concentration, which may be associated with the generally narrow range (0.59-1.28% N) in the litters. P was immediately lost from all litters, except beech leaves, with critical litter C:P mass quotients for P release being in the range 700-900. The rate of P loss was inversely correlated with the original litter P concentration, which ranged from 0.02 to 0.13%. The soil underlying the litterbags influenced the pattern of N and P dynamics in the litters; there were weak correlations between the N and P remaining at 60% C remaining in the litters and the C:N and C:P quotients of the surface layer of the soil. There was a trend for higher N and P retention in the litter at sites with lower soil C:N and N:P quotients, respectively. Although there was a large variation in C:N, C:P and N:P quotients in the original litters (29-83, 369-2122 and 5-26, respectively), and some variation in the retention or loss of N and P in the early stages of decomposition, litters converged on C:N, C:P and N:P quotients of 30, 450 and 16, when the C remaining fell below 30%. These quotients are similar to that found in the surface organic matter of these ecosystems.
40603657|This study investigated the effects of cormorant colonies on plant-arthropod island food webs, the consequences of nutrient-rich runoff on marine communities, and feedback loops from marine to terrestrial ecosystems. Terrestrial plant responses were as expected, with the highest plant biomass on islands with low nest density and the highest nitrogen (N) content on islands with high nest density. In contrast to our hypothesis, we found no uniform density response across guilds. Among herbivores, the variable responses may depend on the relative importance of plant quality or quantity. As expected, nutrient-rich runoff entered water bodies surrounding cormorant nesting islands, but only at high nest density, and increased the density of emerging insects. This created a potential feedback loop to spiders (major terrestrial predators), where stable isotope analyses suggested great use of chironomids. Contrary to our expectation, this potential feed-back did not result in the highest spider density on islands with a high cormorant nest density. Web spiders showed no changes in density on active cormorant islands, and lycosids were actually less abundant on active cormorant islands compared to reference islands. The variable response of spiders despite increased dipteran densities, and also in other consumer groups, may be due to direct negative effects of cormorants on soil chemistry, vegetation cover, and other density regulating forces (for example, top-down forces) not studied here. This study highlights the importance of including processes in the surrounding marine ecosystem to understand the impacts of seabirds on the food web structures of their nesting islands.
25470373|Nomadism has received surprisingly little attention in the ecological literature, and further work in this area is needed. The results of Woinarski's reanalysis of our research findings are broadly similar to our own, and they support our original interpretation. However, his presentation is confusing and difficult to interpret. We used an information-theoretic approach to multimodel selection. We a priori defined plausible candidate models relating the variables described in our original paper or Woinarski's reanalysis to the phenomenon of nomadism. We tested models that investigate nomadism as a function of nectivory, granivory, diet diversity, mixed diet, distance to body mass aggregation edge, mass, interactions between distance to edge and nectivory, distance to edge and mass, mass and nectivory, or mass and the interaction of edge and nectivory. There is consistency in our results across all sets of models, suggesting that mass, distance to body mass aggregation (scale breaks), and diet (nectivory) are all important factors in determining nomadism. In no case was nectivory or any other diet variable supported in a single-variable model. Given the same data and similar results, we and Woinarski reach fundamentally different conclusions. Woinarski views nomadism as an easily understandable results given knowledge of the proper single mechanistic variable, and he discounts interactions with structural features of the landscape and scaling. We conclude that nomadism is a fundamentally complex phenomenon without a single source of causation, and that it is the interaction of species, species attributes, and landscapes that is responsible for nomadic behavior.
25470427|We examined the historical record of mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins) activity within Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, for the 25-years period leading up to the 1988 Yellowstone fires (1963-86) to determine how prior beetle activity and the resulting tree mortality affected the spatial pattern of the 1988 Yellowstone fires. To obtain accurate estimates of our model parameters, we used a Markov chain Monte Carlo method to account for the high degree of spatial autocorrelation inherent to forest fires. Our final model included three statistically significant variables: drought, aspect, and sustained mountain pine beetle activity in the period 1972-75. Of the two major mountain pine beetle outbreaks that preceded the 1988 fires, the earlier outbreak (1972-75) was significantly correlated with the burn pattern, whereas the more recent one (1980-83) was not. Although regional drought and high winds were responsible for the large scale of this event, the analysis indicates that mountain pine beetle activity in the mid-1970s increased the odds of burning in 1988 by 11% over unaffected areas. Although relatively small in magnitude, this effect, combined with the effects of aspect and spatial variation in drought, had a dramatic impact on the spatial pattern of burned and unburned areas in 1988.
3658641|Empirical and modeling studies have shown that the magnitude and duration of the primary production response to elevated carbon dioxide ( CO
3658649| Exotic grasses and grass-fueled fires have altered plant species composition in the seasonal submontane woodlands of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. These changes have altered both structural and functional aspects of the plant community, which could, in turn, have consequences for litter decomposition and nitrogen (N) dynamics. In grass-invaded unburned woodland, grass removal plots within the woodland, and woodland converted to grassland by fire, we compared whole-system fluxes and the contributions of individual species to annual aboveground fine litterfall and litterfall N, and litter mass and net N loss. We assessed the direct contribution of grass biomass to decomposition and N dynamics, and we determined how grasses affected decomposition processes indirectly via effects on native species and alteration of the litter layer microenvironment. Grasses contributed 35% of the total annual aboveground fine litterfall in the invaded woodland. However, total litterfall mass and N were not different between the invaded woodland and the grass removal treatment because of compensation by the native tree Metrosideros polymorpha, which increased litter production by 37%  5% when grasses were removed. The
3658744|Climate change may affect the dynamics of ecosystems and the goods and services they provide. To investigate the consequences of warming and drought for the goods and services provided by different shrublands in various western European countries, an assessment was carried out using results of field manipulation experiments of the CLIMOOR and VULCAN projects. Goods and services of these shrublands mainly encompass biodiversity, various forms of recreation, conservation of culturally and historically important landscapes, groundwater as a drinking water source, and carbon sequestration. Warming of dry lowland heathlands in The Netherlands and Denmark increases nutrient availability, which may lead to grass encroachment reducing biodiversity and decreasing recreational values. Drought may reduce the chances of grass encroachment but increase the chances of disturbances to heather vegetation. Similarly, warming increases and drought decreases the chances of nitrate pollution to the groundwater, which is often used as a drinking water source. Warming of the upland heathland in the UK increases its productivity, which might enable higher grazing densities leading to improved agricultural production. However, complex interactions between heather and invading species may be affected. Furthermore, nitrate production is increased, which may lead to groundwater pollution. Under drought conditions, productivity decreases and agricultural production capacity drops. In the Mediterranean shrubland in Spain, both warming and drought led to a shift in the species composition of seedlings and recruitment, which might lead to a change in the plant community and a reduction in biodiversity. In the drought treatment, a decreasing soil carbon content may lead to a loss of biodiversity, recreational possibilities, and an increased threat of wildfires and erosion.
40296296|Old growth forest soils are large C reservoirs, but the impacts of tree-fall gaps on soil C in these forests are not well understood. The effects of forest gaps on soil C dynamics in old growth northern hardwood-hemlock forests in the upper Great Lakes region, USA, were assessed from measurements of litter and soil C stocks, surface C efflux, and soil microbial indices over two consecutive growing seasons. Forest floor C was significantly less in gaps (19.0 Mg C ha) compared to gapedges (39.5 Mg C ha) and the closed forest (38.0 Mg C ha). Labile soil C (coarse particulate organic matter, cPOM) was significantly less in gaps and edges (11.1 and 11.2 Mg C ha) compared to forest plots (15.3 Mg C ha). In situ surface C efflux was significantly greater in gaps (12.0 Mg C ha y) compared to edges and the closed forest (9.2 and 8.9 Mg C ha y). Microbial biomass N (MBN) was significantly greater in edges (0.14 Mg N ha) than in the contiguous forest (0.09 Mg N ha). The metabolic quotient (qCO) was significantly greater in the forest (0.0031 mg CO h g/mg MBC g) relative to gaps or edges (0.0014 mg CO h g/mg MBC g). A case is made for gaps as alleviators of old growth forest soil C saturation. Relative to the undisturbed closed forest, gaps have significantly less labile C, significantly greater in situ surface C efflux, and significantly lower decreased qCO values.
40792958|Irrigated pondfields and rainfed field systems represented alternative pathways of agricultural intensification that were unevenly distributed across the Hawaiian Archipelago prior to European contact, with pondfields on wetter soils and older islands and rainfed systems on fertile, moderaterainfall upland sites on younger islands. The spatial separation of these systems is thought to have contributed to the dynamics of social and political organization in pre-contact Hawai'i. However, deep stream valleys on older Hawaiian Islands often retain the remains of rainfed dryland agriculture on their lower slopes. We evaluated why rainfed agriculture developed on valley slopes on older but not younger islands by comparing soils of Polol Valley on the young island of Hawai'i with those of Halawa Valley on the older island of Moloka'i. Alluvial valley-bottom and colluvial slope soils of both valleys are enriched 4-5-fold in base saturation and in  that can be weathered, and greater than 10-fold in resin-extractable P and weatherable Ca, compared to soils of their surrounding uplands. However, due to an interaction of volcanically driven subsidence of the young island of Hawai'i with post-glacial sea level rise, the side walls of Polol Valley plunge directly into a flat valley floor, whereas the alluvial floor of Hlawa Valley is surrounded by a band of fertile colluvial soils where rainfed agricultural features were concentrated. Only 5% of Polol Valley supports colluvial soils with slopes between 5 and 12 (suitable for rainfed agriculture), whereas 16% of Hlawa Valley does so. The potential for integrated pondfield/rainfed valley systems of the older Hawaiian Islands increased their advantage in productivity and sustainability over the predominantly rainfed systems of the younger islands.
23253737|Acidification in freshwater ecosystems has important ecological and biogeochemical effects. Temperate streams affected by anthropogenic acidification have been extensively studied, but our understanding of natural acidification in tropical streams has been constrained by the lack of longterm datasets. Here, we analyze 14 years of monthly observations from 13 sampling stations in eight tropical streams in lowland Costa Rica. Stream pH increased during the 4-month dry season and declined throughout the wet season. The magnitude of the seasonal pH decline was greatest following the driest dry seasons, including the historically large El Nio Southern Oscillation event in 1998 when pH values dropped below 4.0 in some streams. Dissolved CO 2 accounts for the low baseline pH in the poorly buffered study streams, and we hypothesize that an influx of soilderived CO 2 via subsurface flow paths contributes to the observed seasonal pH declines. Our results show tight coupling between rainfall, terrestrial, and aquatic ecosystems in the tropics. Predicted decreases in dry season rainfall for the tropics may lead to an increased magnitude of seasonal acidification.
40928240|We aim to define the best nutrient limitation indicator predicting phytoplankton biomass increase as a result of nutrient enrichment (N, P, or both). We compare the abilities of different indicators, based on chemical measurements of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) fractions in the initial plankton community, to predict the limiting factor for phytoplankton growth as inferred independently from short-term laboratory experiments on the same natural communities in a data set from NE Baltic Sea (Tamminen and Andersen, Mar Ecol Prog Ser 340:121-138, 2007). The best indicators had a true positive rate of about 80% for predicting both N and P limitation, but with a higher false positive rate for N than for P limitation (25 vs. 5%). Estimated threshold ratios for total nutrients (TN:TP) were substantially higher than the Redfield ratio, reflecting the relatively high amounts of biologically less available dissolved organic N in the study area. The best overall performing indicator, DIN:TP, had chlorophyll-response based threshold ratios far below Redfield, with N limitation below 2:1 and P limitation above 5:1 (by atoms). On the contrary, paniculate N:P ratio was the overall worst predictor for N or P limitation, with values clustering around the Redfield N:P ratio (16: 1, by atoms) independent of the limiting factor. Estimated threshold ratios based on inorganic nutrients (DIN:DIP) and so-called biologically available nutrients (BAN:BAP = (PON + DIN):(POP + DIP)) were also generally clearly above 16:1, indicating that the Redfield ratio rather reflects the transition from N limitation to combined N + P limitation, than to single limitation by P. Coastal systems are complex systems with regard to nutrient dynamics, historically considered to represent the transition from P-limited freshwater to N-limited marine systems. Our analysis shows that rather simple ratios reflect phytoplankton requirement for nutrients. Based on the high prediction performance, analytical considerations, and general data availability, the DIN:TP ratio appears to be the best indicator for inferring in situ N vs. P limitation of phytoplankton from chemical monitoring data.
25470334|We characterized spatial and temporal changes in nitrate concentrations of the leachate from annual grasslands and subsequently emergent spring-waters and tested the effect of livestock grazing removal on them. Nitrate patterns indicated that annual grassland soils are a likely N source to spring-fed wetlands, which appear to intercept and transform N along its hydrologic path from upland soils to spring-fed, headwater streams. Aboveground biomass and soil N extractions suggested that removal of livestock grazing from these wetlands impaired this function by allowing dead plant material to accumulate inhibiting plant production (hence, plant N demand), resulting in elevated stream-water nitrate (NO) concentrations. Nitrous oxide (NO) fluxes indicated that grazing removal may increase the relative importance of this N-loss pathway. Microbial biomass varied with season but was not affected by grazing treatments suggesting that NO losses were related to differences in NO availability rather than grazing effects on microbial community composition or their activity. Spring-fed wetlands provide important ecosystem services such as plant uptake and denitrification at transition zones between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. These N-retention and transformation functions may be enhanced through biomass harvesting by livestock.
41505899|Eddy covariance was used to measure above-canopy exchanges of CO and water vapor at an operational plantation of hybrid poplar (variety "Walker") established on marginal agricultural land in east central Alberta, Canada. Winter ecosystem respiration (Re) rates were inferred from seasonal changes in the normalized respiration rate at 10C (R) for the growing season and observations of soil CO concentration measured with solid-state probes. Over five consecutive growing seasons following planting, gross ecosystem production (GEP) increased each year, ranging from 21 g C m y in year 1 to 469 g C m y in year 5. During this period, the annual carbon balance shifted from a net source of greater than 330 g C m in year 1 to approximately C-neutral in year 5. Total carbon (C) release over 5 years likely exceeded 630 g C m. Intra-and interannual variations in temperature and soil water availability greatly affected annual C balance each year. GEP and Re were particularly sensitive to temperature during spring and to soil water availability in summer: year 5 was notable because a cold spring and accumulating drought caused growth and carbon uptake to fall well below their potential. Annual evapotranspiration (ET) increased slightly with leaf area, from 281 mm in year 1 to 323 mm in year 4, but in year 5 it declined, while exceeding total precipitation (P). This trend of increasing annual ET/P suggests that annual GEP could become increasingly water-limited in years with below normal precipitation, as the plantation achieves maximum leaf area. Measured canopy albedos did not change appreciably over three winters, suggesting that estimates of increased radiative forcing resulting from afforestation in high latitudes could be exaggerated in regions where fast-growing deciduous plantations are managed on short (~20-year) rotations.
41505934|Global temperature increases and precipitation changes are both expected to alter ecosystem carbon (C) cycling. We tested responses of ecosystem C cycling to simulated climate change using field manipulations of temperature and precipitation across a range of grass-dominated ecosystems along an elevation gradient in northern Arizona. In 2002, we transplanted intact plant-soil mesocosms to simulate warming and used passive interceptors and collectors to manipulate precipitation. We measured daytime ecosystem respiration (ER) and net ecosystem C exchange throughout the growing season in 2008 and 2009. Warming generally stimulated ER and photosynthesis, but had variable effects on daytime net C exchange. Increased precipitation stimulated ecosystem C cycling only in the driest ecosystem at the lowest elevation, whereas decreased precipitation showed no effects on ecosystem C cycling across all ecosystems. No significant interaction between temperature and precipitation treatments was observed. Structural equation modeling revealed that in the wetter-than-average year of 2008, changes in ecosystem C cycling were more strongly affected by warming-induced reduction in soil moisture than by altered precipitation. In contrast, during the drier year of 2009, warming induced increase in soil temperature rather than changes in soil moisture determined ecosystem C cycling. Our findings suggest that warming exerted the strongest influence on ecosystem C cycling in both years, by modulating soil moisture in the wet year and soil temperature in the dry year.
3658688|The relationships among water level, inundated area, and shoreline dynamics were investigated in a bar-braided and an island-braided floodplain of the Tagliamento River in northeast Italy. Ground-based surveys with a differential global positioning system (aGPS) unit were used to delineate all aquatic-terrestrial interfaces (shorelines) in the active floodplain at different water levels. Despite complex inundation patterns, a highly significant (P < 0.00001) linear relationship between water level and arcsine square root of inundated area was found in both reaches (y = 0.49x + 0.07). A highly significant (P < 0.00009) second-order polynomial relationship occurred between water level and shoreline length (
27823678|Relative contributions by macrophytes, epiphyton and phytoplankton to total primary production was estimated in a large (300 km2) widening of the St. Lawrence River (Canada), over a 2-year period with contrasting flows and water levels. Spatially-explicit estimates of whole-system production were obtained by combining field measurements with remotely sensed data and empirical models using GIS. Primary production and relative contributions of each producer type differed markedly between open-water and wetland habitats. Spatial differences within each habitat arose from interactions between physical factors including light, water depth, water transit times and wind stress. At the whole-system level, annual primary production represented 105 gC m2 y1, divided roughly equally among phytoplankton (34%), submerged macrophytes (27%), emergent macrophytes (23%) and epiphyton (16%). A 10% decrease in annual flows and 1-m decline in water levels between 2000 and 2001 resulted in a 50% loss of marsh habitat, a 60% increase in phytoplankton production in the open-water zone, and in the appearance of conspicuous filamentous algal mats. Low water levels induced substantial shifts in the spatial configuration and relative importance of primary producers although total river primary production remained stable between years.
3658994|Although it is generally acknowledged that invasions by exotic plant species represent a major threat to biodiversity and ecosystem stability, little attention has been paid to the potential impacts of these invasions on nutrient cycling processes in the soil. The literature on plant-soil interactions strongly suggests that the introduction of a new plant species, such as an invasive exotic, has the potential to change many components of the carbon (C), nitrogen (N), water, and other cycles of an ecosystem. I have reviewed studies that compare pool sizes and flux rates of the major nutrient cycles in invaded and noninvaded systems for invasions of 56 species. The available data suggest that invasive plant species frequently increase biomass and net primary production, increase N availability, alter N fixation rates, and produce litter with higher decomposition rates than co-occurring natives. However, the opposite patterns also occur, and patterns of difference between exotics and native species show no trends in some other components of nutrient cycles (for example, the size of soil pools of C and N). In some cases, a given species has different effects at different sites, suggesting that the composition of the invaded community and/or environmental factors such as soil type may determine the direction and magnitude of ecosystem-level impacts. Exotic plants alter soil nutrient dynamics by differing from native species in biomass and productivity, tissue chemistry, plant morphology, and phenology. Future research is needed to (a) experimentally test the patterns suggested by this data set; (b) examine fluxes and pools for which few data are available, including whole-site budgets; and (c) determine the magnitude of the difference in plant characteristics and in plant dominance within a community that is needed to alter ecosystem processes. Such research should be an integral component of the evaluation of the impacts of invasive species.
41505953|Variability and future alterations in regional and global climate patterns may exert a strong control on the carbon dioxide (CO) exchange of grassland ecosystems. We used 6 years of eddy-covariance measurements to evaluate the impacts of seasonal and inter-annual variations in environmental conditions on the net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE), gross ecosystem production (GEP), and ecosystem respiration (ER) of an intensively managed grassland in the humid temperate climate of southern Ireland. In all the years of the study period, considerable uptake of atmospheric CO occurred in this grassland with a narrow range in the annual NEE from 245 to 284 g C m y, with the exception of 2008 in which the NEE reached 352 g C m y. None of the measured environmental variables (air temperature (Ta), soil moisture, photosynthetically active radiation, vapor pressure deficit (VPD), precipitation (PPT), and so on) correlated with NEE on a seasonal or annual scale because of the equal responses from the component fluxes GEP and ER to variances in these variables. Pronounced reduction of summer PPT in two out of the six studied years correlated with decreases in both GEP and ER, but not with NEE. Thus, the stable annual NEE was primarily achieved through a strong coupling of ER and GEP on seasonal and annual scales. Limited inter-annual variations in Ta ( 0.5C) and generally sufficient soil moisture availability may have further favored a stable annual NEE. Monthly ecosystem carbon use efficiency (CUE; as the ratio of NEE:GEP) during the main growing season (April 1-September 30) was negatively correlated with temperature and VPD, but positively correlated with soil moisture, whereas the annual CUE correlated negatively with annual NEE. Thus, although drier and warmer summers may mildly reduce the uptake potential, the annual uptake of atmospheric CO, in this intensively managed grassland, may be expected to continue even under predicted future climatic changes in the humid temperate climate region.
3658945|The addition of nitrogen via deposition alters the carbon balance of temperate forest ecosystems by affecting both production and decomposition rates. The effects of 20 years of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus and potassium (PK) additions were studied in a 40-year-old pine stand in northern Sweden. Carbon fluxes of the forest floor were reconstructed using a combination of data on soil
27823737|The Mediterranean red coral (Corallium rubrum, L. 1758) is a slow-growing longevous gorgonian that produces a red calcium carbonate skeleton, which is in high demand by the jewellery industry. Its long history of intensive commercial harvesting has resulted in a well-documented decline of its stocks throughout the Mediterranean, becoming especially apparent during the last two decades. Based on the extensive ecological data from the Costa Brava (NE Spain) stocks, this study reviews, for the first time, socioeconomic aspects and the impact of current fishing practices on the red coral population structure and reproductive biology. A comparison of the intensively harvested populations in shallow water with that of the infrequently harvested ones in deep water, along with a population in a marine reserve as well, reveals that 98% of all shallow water colonies show a juvenile size and branching pattern as a result of harvesting. Recent data on the reproductive biology of the species show that 91% of the colonies in shallow water populations (<60 m depth) are not 100% sexually mature. These populations are clearly at the limit of their recoverability potential. The maximum sustainable yield (estimated using the Beverton-Holt model) is reached at an age of first capture of 98 years, although the current regulations allow harvesting of approximately 11-year-old colonies (corresponding to a basal diameter of 7 mm). The presented data reveal how this renewable resource is being exploited in a clearly non-sustainable and inefficient way, changing significantly the underwater landscape of the Mediterranean coast. The review of all available data suggests that the shallow water stocks are depleted. Furthermore, recent trends in poaching of juvenile colonies and mass mortality events threaten the survival of the shallow water populations. A ban on reconstituted coral from the market appears to be the only option to control this form of poaching.
41507784|Arctic ecosystems are important habitats for Arctic breeding geese which in their turn have a profound impact on the vegetation in these areas. The herbivore pressure is currently on the rise in the region and may interact with climate change to drive changes in both productivity and decomposition rates. In this study, we aim to determine the combined impact of warming and geese on C pools and decomposition in two high Arctic habitats, mesic heath and wet meadow. We employed field-experimental warming and grazing treatments in a fully factorial design and quantified their impact on ecosystems C pools and turnover. High grazing levels reduced vascular biomass and litter C pools at both sites, whereas warming reduced moss biomass at the mesic site only. Grazing increased decomposition rates and reduced the amount of labile C in the soil at the mesic site, whereas warming substantially reduced concentrations by approximately 25%. Intermediate level of grazing had an opposite effect and resulted in increased soil the treatment on belowground cycling were found at the wet site. In conclusion, the two levels of grazing and warming impacted on different aspects of the cycle investigated in this study. The high grazing and warming treatment promoted reduced carbon storage/decomposition both aboveand belowground with the strongest effects seen at the mesic site.
27823722|Cross-scale spatial and temporal perspectives are important for studying contagious landscape disturbances such as fire, which are controlled by myriad processes operating at different scales. We examine fire regimes in forests of western North America, focusing on how observed patterns of fire frequency change across spatial scales. To quantify changes in fire frequency across spatial scale, we derive the event-area (EA) relationship and the analogous interval-area (IA) relationship using historical and simulated data from low- and high-severity fire regimes. The EA and IA provide multiscale descriptions of fire regimes, as opposed to standard metrics that may apply only at a single scale. Parameters and properties of scaling functions (intercept, slope, minimum value) are associated statistically with properties of the fire regime, such as mean fire-free intervals and fire size distributions, but are not direct mathematical transformations of them because they also reflect mechanistic drivers of fire that are non-stationary in time and space. Patterns in fire-scaling relations can be used to identify how controls on fire regimes change across spatial and temporal scales. Future research that considers fire as a cross-scale process will be directly applicable to landscape-scale fire management.
41507789|Some aquatic systems have disproportionately high nutrient processing rates, and may be important to nutrient retention within river networks. However, the contribution of such biogeochemical hot spots also depends on water residence time and hydrologic connections within the system. We examined the balance of these factors in a comparative study of nitrate (NO) uptake across stream and flowthrough wetland reaches of northern Wisconsin, USA. The experimental design compared NO uptake at different levels: the ecosystem level, for reaches (n = 9) consisting of morphologically contrasting subreaches (SLOW, low mean water velocity; REF, reference, or higher mean water velocity); the sub-ecosystem level, for subreaches consisting of morphologically contrasting zones (TS, transient storage zone; MC, main channel zone). SLOW subreaches had 45% lower ecosystem-level uptake rate (K, t ) on average, indicating reduced uptake efficiency in flow-through wetlands relative to streams. The four largest K values (total n = 24) also occured in REF sub-reaches. TS:MC uptake rate varied (range 0.16.0), but MC zones consistently accounted for most NO uptake by the ecosystem. In turn, TS influence was limited by a tradeoff between TS zone uptake rate and the strength of TS-MC hydrologic connection ( or F med ). Additional modeling of published hydrologic parameter sets showed that strong MC dominance of uptake (> 75% of total uptake), at the scale of solute release methods (meters to kilometers, hours to days), is common among streams and rivers. Our results emphasize that aquatic nutrient retention is the outcome of a balance involving nutrient uptake efficiency, water residence time, and the strength of hydrologic connections between nutrient sources and sinks. This balance restricts the influence of hydrologically disconnected biota on nutrient transport, and could apply to diverse ecosystem types and sizes.
3658624|At two sites at the extreme ends of a soil development chronosequence in Hawaii, we investigated whether forest responses to fertilization on young soils were similar to those on highly weathered soils and whether the initial responses were maintained after 6-11 years of fertilization. Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) was increased by nitrogen (N) application at the 300-year-old site and phosphorus (P) application at the 4.1-million-year-old site, thus confirming earlier results and their designations as N- and P-limited forests. Along with ANPP, application of the limiting element consistently increased leaf area index (LAI), radiation conversion efficiency (RCE), and foliar and litter nutrient concentrations. Fertilization did not consistently alter N or P retranslocation from senescent leaves at either site, but a comparison with other sites on the chronosequence and with a common-garden study suggests that there is a genetic basis for low foliar and litter nutrients and higher retranslocation at infertile sites vs more fertile sites. N limitation appears to be expressed as limitation to carbon gain, with long leaf lifespans and high leaf mass per area. P limitation results in high P-use efficiency and disproportionally large increases in P uptake after fertilization; a comparison with other studies indicates large investments in acquiring and storing P. Although the general responses of ANPP, LAI, and RCE were similar for the two sites, other aspects of nutrient use differ in relation to the physiological and biogeochemical roles of the two elements.
3658634|To examine the linkage between forest cover type, litter inputs, and patterns of net N mineralization versus the turnover of N among soil microbes, we measured both the net and gross rates of N mineralization in replicated, adjacent old-growth eastern hemlock [Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr.] or sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.) stands in upper Michigan. Mean aboveground net primary production and annual litterfall mass were significantly higher (P < 0.01) in the maple forests (
41505926|Climate change is altering long-term climatic conditions and increasing the magnitude of weather fluctuations. Assessing the consequences of these changes for terrestrial ecosystems requires understanding how different vegetation types respond to climate and weather. This study examined 20 years of regional-scale remotely sensed net primary productivity (NPP) in forests of the northern Lake States to identify how the relationship between NPP and climate or weather differ among forest types, and if NPP patterns are influenced by landscape-scale evenness of forest-type abundance. These results underscore the positive relationship between temperature and NPP. Importantly, these results indicate significant differences among broadly defined forest types in response to both climate and weather. Essentially all weather variables that were strongly related to annual NPP displayed significant differences among forest types, suggesting complementarity in response to environmental fluctuations. In addition, this study found that forest-type evenness (within 8 x 8 km areas) is positively related to long-term NPP mean and negatively related to NPP variability, suggesting that NPP in pixels with greater forest-type evenness is both higher and more stable through time. This is landscape-to subcontinental-scale evidence of a relationship between primary productivity and one measure of biological diversity. These results imply that anthropogenic or natural processes that influence the proportional abundance of forest types within landscapes may influence long-term productivity patterns.
40296325|Despite a recent emphasis on understanding crosshabitat interactions, few studies have examined the ecological linkages between lakes and surrounding terrestrial habitats. The current paradigm of landlake interactions is typically unidirectional: the view is that nutrients and matter are transported downslope from the surrounding watershed to their ultimate lacustrine destination. Emergent aquatic insects, which spend their larval stages in lake sediments and emerge as adults to mate over land, can act as vectors of material, energy and nutrients from aquatic to terrestrial habitats. In this study, we document a gradient of midge (Diptera: Chironomidae) infall rates into terrestrial habitats (measured as g dw midges m d) surrounding eight lakes in Northern Iceland (66N latitude). Lakes ranged from having virtually no midge infall (for example, Helluvadstjorn, 0.03 g m d) to extreme levels (for example, Myvatn, 19 g m d) with abundances of midges decreasing logarithmically with distance from shore. Annual midge input rates are estimated as high as 1200-2500 kg midges ha y. As midges are approximately 9.2% total N, this can result in a significant fertilization effect of terrestrial habitats with consequences for plant quality and community structure. In addition, we used naturally-occurring C and N isotopes to examine food web structure and diet sources of terrestrial arthropod consumers surrounding lakes with differing amounts of midge input. Terrestrial arthropods showed increased utilization of aquaticderived (that is, midge) C relative to terrestrial sources as midge infall increased. This pattern was particularly pronounced for predators, such as spiders and opiliones, and some detritivores (Collembola). These findings suggest that, despite being largely ignored, aquatic-to-terrestrial linkages can be large and midges can fuel terrestrial communities by directly serving as resources for predators and decomposers.
40296418|Climate change predictions for the desert southwestern U.S. are for shifts in precipitation patterns. The impacts of climate change may be significant, because desert soil processes are strongly controlled by precipitation inputs ("pulses") via their effect on soil water availability. This study examined the response of soil respirationan important biological process that affects soil carbon (C) storageto variation in pulses representative of climate change scenarios for the Sonoran Desert. Because deserts are mosaics of different plant cover types and soil textureswhich create patchiness in soil respirationwe examined how these landscape characteristics interact to affect the response of soil respiration to pulses. Pulses were applied to experimental plots of bare and vegetated soil on contrasting soil textures typical of Sonoran Desert grasslands. The data were analyzed within a Bayesian framework to: (1) determine pulse size and antecedent moisture (soil moisture prior to the pulse) effects on soil respiration, (2) quantify soil texture (coarse vs. fine) and cover type (bare vs. vegetated) effects on the response of soil respiration and its components (plant vs. microbial) to pulses, and (3) explore the relationship between long-term variation in pulse regimes and seasonal soil respiration. Regarding objective (1), larger pulses resulted in higher respiration rates, particularly from vegetated fine-textured soil, and dry antecedent conditions amplified respiration responses to pulses (wet antecedent conditions dampened the pulse response). Regarding (2), autotrophic (plant) activity was a significant source (~ 60%) of respiration and was more sensitive to pulses on coarse-versus fine-textured soils. The sensitivity of heterotrophic (microbial) respiration to pulses was highly dependent on antecedent soil water. Regarding (3), seasonal soil respiration was predicted to increase with both growing season precipitation and mean pulse size (but only for pulses between 7 and 25 mm). Thus, the heterogeneity of the desert landscape and the timing or the number of medium-sized pulses is expected to significantly impact desert soil C loss with climate change.
40296416|Managed ecosystems experience vulnerabilities when ecological resilience declines and key flows of ecosystem services become depleted or lost. Drivers of vulnerability often include local management actions in conjunction with other external, largerscale factors. To translate these concepts to management applications, we developed a conceptual model of feedbacks linking the provision of ecosystem services, their use by society, and anthropogenic change. From this model we derived a method to integrate existing geodata at relevant scales and in locally meaningful ways to provide decision-support for adaptive management efforts. To demonstrate our approach, we conducted a case study assessment of southeast Alaska, where managers are concerned with sustaining fish and wildlife resources in areas where intensive logging disturbance has occurred. Individual datasets were measured as indicators of one of three criteria: ecological capacity to support fish/wildlife populations (provision); human acquisition of fish/wildlife resources (use); and intensity of logging and related land-use change (disturbance). Relationships among these processes were analyzed using two methodsa watershed approach and a high-resolution rasterto identify where provision, use and disturbance were spatially coupled across the landscape. Our results identified very small focal areas of social-ecological coupling that, based on postlogging dynamics and other converging drivers of change, may indicate vulnerability resulting from depletion of ecosystem services. We envision our approach can be used to narrow down where adaptive management might be most beneficial, allowing practitioners with limited funds to prioritize efforts needed to address uncertainty and mitigate vulnerability in managed ecosystems.
25053801|Woody encroachment, a spatially explicit process of land-cover change, is known to affect the biophysical and biogeochemical properties of ecosystems. However, little information is available on the impacts of woody encroachment on N oxide emissions from savanna regions. We combined hyperspectral remote sensing and field measurements to quantify spatial patterns and estimate regional fluxes of soil N oxide emissions as they covary with vegetation cover and soil type across a semiarid rangeland in north Texas. Soil nitric oxide (NO) emissions were highly correlated with Prosopis canopy cover, allowing the extrapolation of NO fluxes from hyperspectral observations of woody cover. NO emissions were highly variable, ranging from 0 to 550 kg NO-N
23253739|Although tropical forests occupy a small fraction of the earth's total land area, they play a disproportionately large role in regulating the global carbon cycle. Yet controls on both primary productivity and decomposition in tropical forests are not well-studied in comparison with temperate forests and grasslands, despite their extreme biogeochemical heterogeneity. To evaluate the relative importance of climate and foliar chemical variables in driving decomposition in tropical forests, I performed a meta-analysis of reported leaf litter decay rates throughout tropical forest ecosystems. Using a model selection procedure based on Akaike's Information Criterion, I found that temperature and precipitation played little direct role in regulating decomposition rates, except in montane forests where cool temperatures slowed decay. Foliar concentrations of calcium, magnesium, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium were important predictors of mass loss rates, although each of these factors explained a very small amount of variance when considered in isolation. The large amount of unexplained variation in decomposition rates observed both within and across tropical forest sites may be due to other factors not explored here, such as soil biota or complex plant secondary chemistry. Carbon cycling in tropical forests seems to be modulated by the availability of multiple nutrients, underscoring the need for additional manipulative experiments to explore patterns of belowground nutrient limitation across the biome. Because models of decomposition developed in temperate ecosystems do not appear to be generalizable to wet tropical forests, new biogeochemical paradigms should be developed to accommodate their unique combination of climatic, edaphic, and biotic factors.
43677508|Plant diversity in groundwater-fed wetland ecosystems is typically extraordinarily high, yet the biogeochemical controls of this diversity are still incompletely understood. We hypothesized that fine-scale variation in sulfide would influence plant community composition via direct phytotoxicity and indirect mediation of phosphorus release from iron, coupled with gradients in other chemicals such as calcium. We measured porewater chemistry and plant species composition at 400 locations within a calcareous rich fen in central New York State. Ground water-derived calcium (Ca) and sulfate and redox-sensitive sulfide and ferrous iron (Fe) showed high heterogeneity. Phosphorus availability was limited and not readily traceable to toxic sulfide, whereas nitrogen (TDN) was more abundant than expected. Using the corrected Akaike information criterion to select between competing models of toxic, nutrient, and mixedchemistry influences on vegetation, we found that hydrogen sulfide explained decreases in total plant cover, cover of the three most frequently occurring species, dicot species density, plant height, and litter accumulation. Furthermore, sulfide coupled with calcium and phosphorus to explain plant species density and composition. Sulfide was more likely to explain decreased cover of dominant species than rare species. The presence and cover of uncommon species was often unexpectedly explained best by Fe and sulfate, but all models of plant responses with environmental predictor variables were better than the "null" model of mean plant response that lacked environmental variables. An integrated geochemical assessment of coupled groundwater chemistry, redox-sensitive chemistry, and nutrient influences on plants demonstrated the importance of phytotoxic sulfide in explaining plant species density and composition.
23328059|Nitrogen (N) retention by tree canopies is believed to be an important process for tree nutrient uptake, and its quantification is a key issue in determining the impact of atmospheric N deposition on forest ecosystems. Due to dry deposition and retention by other canopy elements, the actual uptake and assimilation by the tree canopy is often obscured in throughfall studies. In this study, 15 N-labeled solutions ( ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ and ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ ) were used to assess dissolved inorganic N retention by leaves/needles and twigs of European beech, pedunculate oak, silver birch, and Scots pine saplings. The effects of N form, tree species, leaf phenology, and applied $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ to ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ ratio on the N retention were assessed. Retention patterns were mainly determined by foliar uptake, except for Scots pine. In twigs, a small but significant 15 N enrichment was detected for ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ , which was found to be mainly due to physicochemical adsorption to the woody plant surface. The mean ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}/{}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ retention ratio varied considerably among species and phenological stadia, which indicates that the use of a fixed ratio in the canopy budget model could lead to an over- or underestimation of the total N retention. In addition, throughfall water under each branch was collected and analyzed for ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ , ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ , and all major ions. Net throughfall of ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ was, on average, 20 times higher than the actual retention of ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ by the plant material. This difference in ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ retention could not be attributed to pools and fluxes measured in this study. The retention of ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ was correlated with the net throughfall of K + , Mg 2+ , Ca 2+ , and weak acids during leaf development and the fully leafed period, while no significant relationships were found for ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ retention. This suggests that the main driving factors for ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ retention might be ion exchange processes during the start and middle of the growing season and passive diffusion at leaf senescence. Actual assimilation or abiotic uptake of N through leaves and twigs was small in this study, for example, 15% of the applied dissolved 15 N, indicating that the impact of canopy N retention from wet deposition on forest productivity and carbon sequestration is likely limited.
40296381|A field experiment was established to quantify the effects of different amounts of rainfall on root growth and dry mass of belowground plant parts in three types of grassland ecosystems. Mountain (Nardus grassland), highland (wet Cirsium grassland), and lowland grassland (dry Festuca grassland) ecosystems were studied in 2006 and 2007. Roofs constructed above the canopy of grass stands and gravity irrigation systems simulated three climate scenarios: (1) rainfall reduced by 50%, (2) rainfall enhanced by 50%, and (3) the full natural rainfall of the current growing season. Experimentally reduced amounts of precipitation significantly affected both yearly root increments and total root dry mass in the highland grassland. Dry conditions in 2007 resulted in considerable reduction of total belowground dry mass in highland and mountain grasslands. Although not all differences in root biomass of studied grasslands were statistically significantly, some also showed a decrease in root increment and in the amount of belowground dry mass in dry conditions.
40296294|Data from several years of monthly samplings are combined with a 1-year detailed study of carbon flux through bacteria at a NW Mediterranean coastal site to delineate the bacterial role in carbon use and to assess whether environmental factors or bacterial assemblage composition affected the in situ rates of bacterial carbon processing. Leucine (Leu) uptake rates [as an estimate of bacterial heterotrophic production (BHP)] showed high interannual variability but, on average, lower values were found in winter (around 50 pM Leu h) as compared to summer (around 150 pM Leu h). Leu-to-carbon conversion factors ranged from 0.9 to 3.6 kgC mol Leu , with generally higher values in winter. Leu uptake was only weakly correlated to temperature, and over a fullyear cycle (in 2003), Leu uptake peaked concomitantly with winter chlorophyll a (Chi a) maxima, and in periods of high ectoenzyme activities in spring and summer. This suggests that both low molecular weight dissolved organic matter (DOM) released by phytoplankton, and high molecular weight DOM in periods of low Chi a, can enhance BHP. Bacterial respiration (BR, range 7-48 g C d) was not correlated to BHP or temperature, but was significantly correlated to DOC concentration. Total bacterial carbon demand (BHP plus BR) was only met by dissolved organic carbon produced by phytoplankton during the winter period. We measured bacterial growth efficiencies by the short-term and the long-term methods and they ranged from 3 to 42%, increasing during the phytoplankton blooms in winter (during the Chi a peaks), and in spring. Changes in bacterioplankton assemblage structure (as depicted by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis fingerprinting) were not coupled to changes in ecosystem functioning, at least in bacterial carbon use.
23501444|Changes in forest composition as a result of forest management, natural disturbances, and climate change may affect the accumulation of soil organic carbon (SOC). We examined the influence of common boreal tree species (trembling aspen, black spruce, and jack pine), either in pure stands or in conifer-broadleaf mixtures, on the amount, distribution, and quality of SOC in two regions of the Canadian boreal biome. Long-term laboratory incubations were used to assess SOC quality by quantifying proportions of fast carbon (C) (that is, proportion of total C released during the first 100 days of incubation) and active C (that is, modeled proportion of total C that can be potentially released). Total amounts of SOC did not differ between stand types, but the effects of stand type on SOC stocks and quality differed with soil depth. Among stand types, aspen stands had the greatest relative proportion of total SOC in deeper mineral layers and the lowest amount of active C in the organic layer. For these reasons, the SOC stock that developed under aspen was more stable than in the other stand types. Although black spruce stands allowed a greater accumulation of SOC in surface layers, these stocks, however, might become more vulnerable to extra losses if environmental conditions are to become more favorable to decomposition in the future. Our work highlights that boreal forest composition influences the stability of SOC stocks and how climate change could alter this large C pool.
3658984|This report summarizes our current knowledge of leaf-level physiological processes that regulate carbon gain and water loss of the dominant tree species in an old-growth forest at the Wind River Canopy Crane Research Facility. Analysis includes measurements of photosynthesis, respiration, stomatal conductance, water potential, stable carbon isotope values, and biogenic hydrocarbon emissions from Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla), and western red cedar (Thuja plicata). Leaf-level information is used to scale fluxes up to the canopy to estimate gross primary production using a physiology-based process model. Both light-saturated and in situ photosynthesis exhibit pronounced vertical gradients through the canopy, but are consistently highest in Douglas-fir, intermediate in western hemlock, and lowest in western red cedar. Net photosynthesis and stomatal conductance are strongly dependent on vapor-pressure deficit in Douglas-fir, and decline through the course of a seasonal drought. Foliar respiration is similar for Douglas-fir and western hemlock, and lowest for western red cedar. Water-use efficiency varied with species and tree height, as indexed using stable carbon isotopes values for foliage. Leaf water potential is most negative for Douglas-fir and similar for western hemlock and western red cedar. Terpene fluxes from foliage equal approximately 1% of the net carbon loss from the forest. Modeled estimates based on physiological measurements show gross primary productivity (GPP) to be about
3659032| Although mountainous landscapes dominate large areas of the Earth, our understanding of how elevation and aspect influence soil respiration in complex mountainous terrain is very limited. Therefore, we measured soil respiration throughout the growing season in 1999 and 2000 at 11 forested sites in Olympic National Park, Washington, USA along elevation-climatic gradients. The study sites ranged from temperate rain forest to alpine forests near tree line. Soil temperature was a significant predictor of soil respiration at all sites, and soil moisture explained additional variability at three sites (R
3658588|Net primary productivity (NPP) represents the greatest annual carbon flux from the atmosphere to the biosphere, is an important component of seasonal fluctuations in atmospheric CO
40296379|The carbon balance of tropical peatlands was investigated using measurements of gaseous fluxes of carbon dioxide (CO) and methane (CH) at several land-use types, including nondrained forest (NDF), drained forest (DF), drained regenerating forest (DRF) after clear cutting and agricultural land (AL) in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. Soil greenhouse gas fluxes depended on land-use, water level (WL), microtopography, temperature and vegetation physiology, among which WL was the strongest driver. All sites were CH sources on an annual basis and the emissions were higher in sites providing fresh litter deposition and water logged conditions. Soil CO flux increased exponentially with soil temperature
3658619|Changes in the ecological stoichiometry of C, N, and P in the pelagic zone are reported from a whole-lake manipulation of the food web of Lake 227, an experimentally eutrophied lake at the Experimental Lakes Area, Canada. Addition of northern pike eliminated populations of planktivorous minnows by the third year (1995) after pike introduction, and in the fourth year after pike addition (1996), a massive increase in the abundance of the large-bodied cladoceran Daphnia pulicaria occurred. Accompanying this increase in Daphnia abundance, zooplankton community N:P declined, seston concentration and C:P ratio decreased, and dissolved N and P pools increased. During peak abundance, zooplankton biomass comprised a significant proportion of total epilimnetic phosphorus (greater than 30%). During the period of increased Daphnia abundance, concentrations of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (TIN) increased more strongly than dissolved phosphorus (TDP), and thus TIN:TDP ratios were elevated. Sedimentation data indicated that increased grazing led to greatly reduced residence times of C, N, and especially P in the water column during 1996. Finally, previously dominant N-fixing cyanobacteria were absent during 1996. Our results show that strong effects of food-web structure can occur in eutrophic lakes and that stoichiometric mechanisms play a potentially important role in generating these effects.
23325684|Disparate ecological datasets are often organized into databases post hoc and then analyzed and interpreted in ways that may diverge from the purposes of the original data collections. Few studies, however, have attempted to quantify how biases inherent in these data (for example, species richness, replication, climate) affect their suitability for addressing broad scientific questions, especially in under-represented systems (for example, deserts, tropical forests) and wild communities. Here, we quantitatively compare the sensitivity of species first flowering and leafing dates to spring warmth in two phenological databases from the Northern Hemisphere. OnePEP725has high replication within and across sites, but has low species diversity and spans a limited climate gradient. The otherNECTARincludes many more species and a wider range of climates, but has fewer sites and low replication of species across sites. PEP725, despite low species diversity and relatively low seasonality, accurately captures the magnitude and seasonality of warming responses at climatically similar NECTAR sites, with most species showing earlier phenological events in response to warming. In NECTAR, the prevalence of temperature responders significantly declines with increasing mean annual temperature, a pattern that cannot be detected across the limited climate gradient spanned by the PEP725 flowering and leafing data. Our results showcase broad areas of agreement between the two databases, despite significant differences in species richness and geographic coverage, while also noting areas where including data across broader climate gradients may provide added value. Such comparisons help to identify gaps in our observations and knowledge base that can be addressed by ongoing monitoring and research efforts. Resolving these issues will be critical for improving predictions in understudied and undersampled systems outside of the temperature seasonal mid-latitudes.
27823714|Estimating changes in belowground biomass and production is essential for understanding fundamental patterns and processes during ecosystem development. We examined patterns of fine root production, aboveground litterfall, and forest floor accumulation during forest primary succession at the Mt. Shasta Mudflows ecosystem chronosequence. Fine root production was measured using the root ingrowth cores method over 1 year, and aboveground litterfall was collected over 2 years. Fine root production increased significantly with ecosystem age, but only the youngest ecosystem was significantly different from all of the older ecosystems. Root production was 44.5  13.3, 168.3  20.6, 190.5  33.8, and 236.3  65.4 g m2 y1 in the 77, 255, 616, and >850-year-old ecosystems, respectively. Generally, aboveground litterfall and forest floor accumulation did not follow the same pattern as root production. The relative contribution of fine root production to total fine detrital production increased significantly with ecosystem age, from 14 to 49%, but only the youngest ecosystem was significantly different from all of the older ecosystems. Fine root production was significantly correlated with some measures of soil fertility but was not correlated with leaf or total litterfall, or forest floor accumulation. It was best predicted by soil N concentration alone, but this relationship may not be causal, as soil N concentration was also correlated with ecosystem age. For the oldest ecosystem, fine root production was also measured using the sequential intact cores/compartment-flow model method, and the difference between the two estimates was not significant. Our study suggests that the relative contribution of fine roots to fine detrital production, and hence to soil organic matter accumulation, may increase during forest primary succession.
23501466|Rapid changes in global climate are likely to alter species assemblages and environmental characteristics resulting in novel ecosystems. The ability to predict characteristics of future ecosystems is crucial for environmental planning and the development of effective climate change adaptation strategies. This paper presents an approach for envisioning novel ecosystems in future climates. Focusing on riparian ecosystems, we use qualitative process models to predict likely abiotic and biotic changes in four case study systems: tropical coastal floodplains, temperate streams, high mountain streams and urban riparian zones. We concentrate on functional groups rather than individual species and consider dispersal constraints and the capacity for genetic adaptation. Our scenarios suggest that climatic changes will reduce indigenous diversity, facilitate non-indigenous invasion (especially C4 graminoids), increase fragmentation and result in simplified and less distinctive riparian ecosystems. Compared to models based on biota-environment correlations, process models built on mechanistic understanding (like Bayesian belief networks) are more likely to remain valid under novel climatic conditions. We posit that predictions based on species' functional traits will facilitate regional comparisons and can highlight effects of climate change on ecosystem structure and function. Ecosystems that have experienced similar modification to that expected under climate change (for example, altered flow regimes of regulated rivers) can be used to help inform and evaluate predictions. By manipulating attributes of these system models (for example, magnitude of climatic changes or adaptation strategies used), implications of various scenarios can be assessed and optimal management strategies identified.
40928227|In coastal marine ecosystems, hypoxia and anoxia are emerging as growing threats whose ecological impacts are difficult to ascertain because of the frequent lack of adequate references for comparison. We applied conventional and hierarchical ensemble analyses to evaluate the weight of evidence in support of hypoxia impacts on local densities of individual and groups of demersal fish and invertebrate species in Hood Canal, WA, which is subject to seasonal hypoxia in its southern reaches. Central to our approach was a sample design and analysis scheme that was designed specifically to consider multiple alternative hypotheses regarding factors that dictate local species' densities. We anticipated persistent effects of hypoxia (felt even when seasonal hypoxia was absent) on species densities would be most pronounced for sessile species, but that immediate effects (felt only when seasonal hypoxia was present) would dominate for mobile species. Conventional analysis provided strong evidence that densities of sessile species were persistently reduced in the hypoxic-impacted site, but did not indicate widespread immediate density responses during hypoxic events among mobile species. The absence of strong weights of evidence for hypoxia effects was partly a consequence of alternative hypotheses that better explained spatial-temporal variation in species' densities. The hierarchical ensemble analysis improved the precision of species-specific effect sizes, and also allowed us to make inferences about the response of aggregated groups of species. The estimated mean density reductions during hypoxic events (dissolved oxygen ~ 2 mg/l) ranged from 73 to 98% among mobile invertebrates, benthic, and benthopelagic fishes. The large reduction in benthic and benthopelagic species suggests substantial effects of hypoxia in Hood Canal even at oxygen levels that were marginally hypoxic. Understanding the full ecological consequence of hypoxia will require a greater knowledge on the spatial extent of distributional shifts and their effects on competitive and predator-prey interactions.
40603502|In urban landscapes, nearby birds contribute to allochthonous nutrient flow from residential areas to fragmented forests by consuming food in residential areas and depositing feces in forests. To estimate allochthonous nutrient flow qualitatively, the stable nitrogen () and carbon (C) isotope approach is useful. However, the quantitative allochthonous flow rate cannot be estimated by the stable-isotope approach. To quantify allochthonous input, we compare two different landscapes. We assume that the input rate in deep forests in the forest-dominated landscape is the basic autochthonous flow that is common to various forests, and estimate the allochthonous nutrient input by subtracting the autochthonous flow from the total input in urban forests. The observed nutrient-input rate in the forest-dominated landscape as the autochthonous flow is 0.0298 kg P hay and 0.319 kg N hay. Using these values, the allochthonous N input (kg P hay) is estimated at 0.0307 in urban fragmented forests and 2.31 in forests with crow roosts, whereas N input (kg N hay) is 0.397 in urban fragmented forests and 23.2 in forests with crow roosts. Our estimation shows that, in urban forests with roosts, birds contribute 2.7 times the amount of allochthonous N contributed via other pathways, and in urban forests without roosts they contribute 0.035 times the amount; and in addition, birds contribute 0.66 times the amount of allochthonous N input via other pathways in urban forests with crow roosts and 0.011 times the amount in urban forests without roosts. We also measure stable nitrogen and carbon isotope ratios, %N, %P, and %C to estimate the diet of birds. High  and C values in crow roosts indicate that they eat foods such as livestock meat, C maize, or fish. High avian biomass is the major reason for the large nutrient input in urban landscapes, especially in urban forests with crow roosts.
3658961|Although limnologists have long been interested in regional patterns in lake attributes, only recently have they considered lakes connected and organized across the landscape, rather than as spatially independent entities. Here we explore the spatial organization of lake districts through the concept of landscape position, a concept that considers lakes longitudinally along gradients of geomorphology and hydrology. We analyzed long-term chemical and biological data from nine lake chains (lakes in a series connected through surface or groundwater flow) from seven lake districts of diverse hydrologic and geomorphic settings across North America. Spatial patterns in lake variables driven by landscape position were surprisingly common across lake districts and across a wide range of variables. On the other hand, temporal patterns of lake variables, quantified using synchrony, the degree to which pairs of lakes exhibit similar dynamics through time, related to landscape position only for lake chains with lake water residence times that spanned a wide range and were generally long (close to or greater than 1 year). Highest synchrony of lakes within a lake chain occurred when lakes had short water residence times. Our results from both the spatial and temporal analyses suggest that certain features of the landscape position concept are robust enough to span a wide range of seemingly disparate lake types. The strong spatial patterns observed in this analysis, and some unexplained patterns, suggest the need to further study these scales and to continue to view lake ecosystems spatially, longitudinally, and broadly across the landscape.
40603634|Long-term, landscape patterns in inorganic nitrogen (N) availability and N stocks following infrequent, stand-replacing fire are unknown but are important for interpreting the effect of disturbances on ecosystem function. Here, we present results from a replicated chronosequence study in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (Wyoming, USA) directed at measuring inorganic N availability (ionexchange resin bags) and ecosystem N pools among 77 lodgepole pine stands that varied in age and density. Inorganic N availability ranged from 0.07 to 3.20 Nbag d and nitrate $(No_3^ - )$ was, on average, 65% of total resin-sorbed N. Total ecosystem N stocks (live + detrital + soil) averaged 109.9  3.0 g N m(range = 63.7-185.8 g N mm ).Live N was 14%, detrital N was 29%, and soil N was 57% of total stocks. Soil $(No_3^ - )$ , total ecosystem N, live N, and detrital N generally increased with stand age, but soil N stocks decreased. Models (AIC c ) to predict soil N availability and N stocks included soil P, soil Ca, bulk density, and pH in addition to age (adj R ranged from 0.18 to 0.53) and density was included only for live N stocks.Patterns of N stocks and N availability with density were strongest for young stands (< 20 years) regenerating from extensive fire in 1988; for example, litterfall N stocks increased with density (adj R = 0.86, p < 0.001) but inorganic N availability declined (adj R = 0.47, p < 0.003). Across the complex Yellowstone landscape, we conclude that N stocks and N availability are best predicted by a combination of local soil characteristics in addition to factors that vary at landscape scales (stand density and age). Overall, total ecosystem N stocks were recovered quickly following standreplacing fire, suggesting that moderate increases in fire frequency will not affect long-term landscape N storage in Greater Yellowstone.
3658586|The concentration of CO
25470323|The flux of materials across ecosystem boundaries has significant effects on recipient systems. Because of edge effects, seasonal wetlands in upland forest are good systems to explore these linkages. The purpose of this study was to examine flux of coarse particulate organic matter as litter fall into seasonal wetlands in Minnesota, and the relationship of this flux to development of mosquitoes (Aedes aegypti). We hypothesized that litter flux into seasonal wetlands was dominated by upland plant litter that was lower quality and slower to breakdown than wetland litter, and that development rate of mosquitoes reared on upland litter was less than those reared on wetland litter. Of total litter fall into the wetlands, 71% originated in upland forest. Carbon to nitrogen ratios differed between upland litter (mostly sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) leaves) and wetland litter (mostly black ash (Fraxinus nirgra) leaves), averaging 63.9 and 47.7, respectively over two years. Breakdown rate of black ash leaves was faster than upland leaves (k (day) = 0.00329 and 0.00156, respectively), based on the average between wetland margins and centers. Development of mosquito larvae fed black ash leaves was faster than larvae fed upland leaves. Our results demonstrate linkages between upland forests and seasonal wetlands through litter fall. The abundance of upland litter in the wetlands may influence litter breakdown and carbon assimilation by invertebrates. Wetlands receiving high amounts of upland versus wetland litter may be lower quality habitats for invertebrates that depend on detrital pools for their development.
25053802|Large disturbances such as the 1988 Yellowstone fires produce considerable spatial heterogeneity in ecosystem processes across landscapes, in part by affecting vegetation structure. However, the persistence of this heterogeneity with time since disturbance, and thus the role of large disturbances in shaping the heterogeneity of ecosystem processes over large spatial and temporal scales, remains unclear. Such an inquiry requires that variability as well as mean conditions of forest structure and growth be examined if changes are to be projected for heterogeneous postdisturbance landscapes. We studied a chronosequence of unburned, mature lodgepole pine stands (stand ages ranging from 50 to 300 or more years) to examine the variability in stand density, leaf-area index (LAI), and stem growth [basal area increment (BAI), a surrogate for aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP)] with stand age, the relationships between these factors, and how these factors were related to stand and site characteristics. Variation in LAI and BAI was explained primarily by differences in stand density and age (
41505925|Although high elevation meadows are often considered to be primarily temperature-limited, aboveground net primary production (ANPP) is influenced by both growing season length (GSL) and soil moisture (SM). Progress in understanding these responses comes from studies at individual sites that are often focused on single abiotic drivers, so little is known about how climatic constraints relate to one another and limit ANPP at larger scales. We examined the independent and combined effects of these two key climate drivers (GSL and SM) across a suite of high elevation meadows from two continents. We also sampled gradients of each variable at a single site to explore mechanisms for SM and GSL limitations. Here, we show that high elevation meadows are limited by both GSL and SM levels. GSL constrained maximum ANPP by approximately 4 g m d whereas average daily ANPP beneath this constraint was significantly influenced by SM. Carbon isotope and plant/soil nitrogen data suggest that SM influenced ANPP through its impact on nitrogen availability. Increases in GSL can increase ANPP unless those increases are accompanied by SM decreases. These interactive effects can produce distinct ecological patterns and must be considered when predicting high elevation meadow responses to future climate changes.
3658909| The Antarctic dry valleys of southern Victoria Land are extreme desert environments where abiotic factors, such as temperature gradients, parent material, and soil water dynamics, may have a significant influence on soil carbon dioxide ( CO
25470407|Phototrophic primary production is a fundamental ecosystem process, and it is ultimately constrained by access to limiting nutrients. Whereas most research on nutrient limitation of lacustrine phytoplankton has focused on phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) limitation, there is growing evidence that iron (Fe) limitation may be more common than previously acknowledged. Here we show that P was the nutrient that stimulated phytoplankton primary production most strongly in seven out of nine bioassay experiments with natural lake water from oligotrophic clearwater lakes. However, Fe put constraints on phytoplankton production in eight lakes. In one of these lakes, Fe was the nutrient that stimulated primary production most, and concurrent P and Fe limitation was observed in seven lakes. The effect of Fe addition increased with decreasing lake water concentrations of total phosphorus and dissolved organic matter. Possible mechanisms are low import rates and low bioavailability of Fe in the absence of organic chelators. The experimental results were used to predict the relative strength of Fe, N, and P limitation in 659 oligotrophic clearwater lakes (with total phosphorus  0.2 M P and total organic carbon < 6 mg C l) from a national lake survey. Fe was predicted to have a positive effect in 88% of these lakes, and to be the nutrient with the strongest effect in 30% of the lakes. In conclusion, Fe, along with P and N, is an important factor constraining primary production in oligotrophic clearwater lakes, which is a common lake-type throughout the northern biomes.
40603636|Emulation of natural disturbance processes and their effects is important to maintain the structure and composition of managed forests. To examine whether logging and fire have different effects on natural regeneration, we studied the recruitment of six common boreal tree species (Populus tremuloides, Betula papyrifera, Pinus banksiana, Picea mariana, Picea glauca, and Abies balsamea) after fire and clearcutting in northern Ontario. Regeneration densities of all studied species, except P. glauca and A. balsamea, were positively related to their respective pre-disturbance basal area. Post-disturbance regeneration densities of P. tremuloides and P.banksiana did not differ between disturbance types, whereas those of B. papyrifera were higher after fire, and those of P. mariana and A. balsamea were higher after clearcutting. Among tree species, the composition of P. tremuloides increased by approximately 35% after both disturbance types, that of B.papyrifera increased by 22% after fire and 11 % after clearcutting, whereas those of P. banksiana, P. mariana, P. glauca, and A. balsamea decreased to various extents. Compared with fire, clearcutting significantly increased the post-disturbance presence of A. balsamea, which is attributed to surviving advance regeneration after logging. The natural regeneration process after fire appears to be emulated by clearcutting for P. tremuloides, P. banksiana, P. mariana, and P. glauca, but the increase in B.papyrifera after clearcutting is less pronounced than after fire, whereas the reduction of A. balsamea after clearcutting is less severe than after fire.
41413047|We used data collected from 1989 to 2009 from 151 shallow (mean depth < 3 m) temperate lakes in Denmark to explore the influence of lake trophic status, surface area and catchment size on the seasonal dynamics of the air-water flux of CO. Monthly CO fluxes were derived from measurements of acid neutralizing capacity (ANC), pH, ionic strength, temperature, and wind speed. CO fluxes exhibited large seasonal variability, in particular in oligo-mesotrophic lakes. Most of the lakes emitted CO during winter (median rates ranging 300-1,900 mg C m day), and less CO during summer or, in the case of some of the highly eutrophic lakes, retained CO during summer. We found that seasonal CO fluxes were strongly negatively correlated with pH (r =  0.65, P < 0.01), which in turn was correlated with chlorophyll a concentrations (r = 0.48, P < 0.01). Our analysis suggests that lake trophic status (a proxy for pelagic production) interacts with the lake ANC to drive the seasonal dynamics of CO fluxes, largely by changing pH and thereby the equilibrium of the free CO and bicarbonate relation. Long-term observations from four lakes, which have all undergone a period of oligotrophication during the past two decades, provide further evidence that CO efflux generally increases as trophic status decreases, as a consequence of decreased pH. Across these four lakes, the annual average CO emission has increased by 32% during the past two decades, thus, demonstrating the strong link between lake trophic status and CO flux.
40603436|Rivers link oceans with the land, creating global hot spots of carbon processing in coastal seas. Coastlines around the world are dominated by sandy beaches, but beaches are unusual in that they are thought to rely almost exclusively on marine imports for food. No significant connections to terrestrial production having been demonstrated. By contrast, we isotopically traced carbon and nitrogen pathways leading to clams (Donax deltoides) on beaches. Clams from areas influenced by river plumes had significantly different isotope signatures (C: 18.5 to 20.2; N: 8.310.0) compared with clams remote from plumes (C: 17.5 to 19.5; N: 7.68.7), showing that terrestrial carbon and sewage, both delivered in river plumes, penetrate beach food webs. This is a novel mechanism of trophic subsidy in marine intertidal systems, linking the world's largest shore ecosystem to continental watersheds. The same clams also carry pollution signatures of sewage discharged into rivers, demonstrating that coastal rivers connect ecosystems in unexpected ways and transfer contaminants across the land-ocean boundary. The links we demonstrate between terrigenous matter and the largest of all marine intertidal ecosystems are significant given the immense social, cultural, and economic values of beaches to humans and the predicted consequences of altered river discharge to coastal seas caused by global climate change.
40296358|Environmental factors, including the supply of organic matter and inorganic nutrient concentrations, are thought to influence rates of two opposing processes in the nitrogen (N) cycle, denitrification and N fixation. Using sediment cores from a temperate estuary we examined the effects of nitrate, phosphate, and ammonium enrichment of the overlying water on the net N flux across the sediment-water interface. In addition, we used sediment cores and large marine mesocosms to determine the effect of organic matter amendment. The addition of nitrate (50 M), ammonium (50 M), and phosphate (10 M) to the overlying water had no effect on the net N flux. However, high ammonium fluxes (145 jimol m h) were observed in the nitrate-amended cores, which is suggestive of dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium. Organic matter enrichment first increased rates of N fixation, but ultimately switched the sediments from being a net source (N fixation dominated) to a net sink (denitrification dominated) of N. We observed a threshold where N fixation took place when organic matter deposition fell below about 0.3 g C m day. On the basis of these results and the findings of others, we developed a conceptual model that links net sediment N flux with the organic matter production of a system.
43677514|Animals can modify their environment by consumptive and physical activities such as herbivory and soil disturbance. Engineering species may create structures that long outlive them and have lasting impacts on local communities of plants and animals. Water voles, Arvicola amphibious, are rodents that visibly impact riparian plant communities by grazing on surface and root vegetation and excavating long-lasting burrow systems. This species has a metapopulation structure and occurs across patches which are subject to frequent extinction and colonization events, causing spatially heterogeneous disturbances across the landscape. Using a chronosequence of water vole occupancy in the Highlands of Scotland, we show that heterogeneity in plant community composition and structureboth within and between colony patcheswas related to cumulative measures of past physical impact: burrow density and time since a patch was last occupied by voles, rather than to current indices of vole occupancy. In our sample of 107 patches monitored over 5 years, no fewer than 31 unique patch occupancy histories were found, each with potentially subtle differences in the accumulated influence of water vole herbivory and engineering. As a result, a patchwork of different plant successional stages occurs across the riparian landscape which is both created and maintained by water vole extinction-colonization dynamics. We propose that the water vole-vegetation system can be described as a metacommunity where dispersal by a higher tropic agent at the landscape scale influences the spatial dynamics of plants at the patch level.
3659071|Permafrost patterning in boreal peatlands contributes to landscape heterogeneity, as peat plateaus, palsas, and localized permafrost mounds are interspersed among unfrozen bogs and fens. The degradation of localized permafrost in peatlands alters local topography, hydrology, thermal regimes, and plant communities, and creates unique peatland features called "internal lawns." I used laboratory incubations to quantify carbon dioxide ( CO
41507773|We examined chemical changes from leaf tissue to soil organic matter (SOM) to determine the persistence of plant chemistry into soil aggregate fractions. We characterized a slow (Dicranopteris linearis) and fast-decomposing species (Cheirodendron trigynum) and surface (O), and subsurface (A-horizon) SOM beneath each species using pyrolysis-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (py-GC/MS), with and without derivatization. The live tissues of Dicranopteris had greater lignin content whereas Cheirodendron had a greater lipid, N-bearing, and polysaccharide component. Despite this difference in leaf chemistry, SOM chemistry was similar between soil aggregate fractions, but different between horizons. The O-horizon contained primarily lignin and polysaccharide biomarkers whereas the A-horizon contained polysaccharide, aromatic, and N-derived compounds, indicating considerable microbial processing of plant litter. The soils beneath Cheirodendron inherited a greater lipid signal composed of cutin and suberin biomarkers whereas the soils beneath Dicranopteris contained greater aromatic biomarker content, possibly derived from plant lignins. The soils beneath both species were more similar to root polysaccharides, lipids, and lignins than aboveground tissue. This study indicates that although plant-derived OM is processed vigorously, speciesspecific biomarkers and compound class differences persist into these soils and that differences in plant chemical properties may influence soil development even after considerable reworking of plant litter by microorganisms.
3658683|To integrate multiple uses (mature forest and commodity production) better on forested lands, timber management strategies that cluster harvests have been proposed. One such approach clusters harvest activity in space and time, and rotates timber production zones across the landscape with a long temporal period (dynamic zoning). Dynamic zoning has been shown to increase timber production and reduce forest fragmentation by segregating uses in time without reducing the spatial extent of timber production. It is reasonable to wonder what the effect of periodic interruptions in the implementation of such as strategy might be, as would be expected in a dynamic political environment. To answer these questions, I used a timber harvest simulation model (HARVEST) to simulate a dynamic zoning harvest strategy that was periodically interrupted by changes in the spatial dispersion of harvests, by changes in timber production levels, or both. The temporal scale (period) of these interruptions had impacts related to the rate at which the forest achieved canopy closure after harvest. Spatial dynamics in harvest policies had a greater effect on the amount of forest interior and edge than did dynamics in harvest intensity. The periodically clustered scenarios always produced greater amounts of forest interior and less forest edge than did their never clustered counterparts. The results suggest that clustering of harvests produces less forest fragmentation than dispersed cutting alternatives, even in the face of a dynamic policy future. Although periodic episodes of dispersed cutting increased fragmentation, average and maximum fragmentation measures were less than if clustered harvest strategies were never implemented. Clustering may also be useful to mitigate the fragmentation effects of socially mandated increases in timber harvest levels. Implementation of spatial clustering during periods of high timber harvest rates reduced the variation in forest interior and edge through time, providing a more stable supply of forest interior habitat across the landscape.
25470431|Since the domestication of plant and animal species around 10,000 years ago, cultivation and animal husbandry have been major components of global change. Agricultural activities such as tillage, fertilization, and biomass alteration lead to fundamental changes in the pools and fluxes of carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) that originally existed in native ecosystems. Land is often taken out of agricultural production for economic, social, or biological reasons, and the ability to predict the biogeochemical trajectory of this land is important to our understanding of ecosystem development and our projections of food security for the future. Tillage generally decreases soil organic matter (SOM) due to erosion and disruption of the physical, biochemical, and chemical mechanisms of SOM stabilization, but SOM can generally reaccumulate after the cessation of cultivation. The use of organic amendments causes increases in SOM on agricultural fields that can last for centuries to millennia after the termination of applications, although the locations that provide the organic amendments are concurrently depleted. The legacy of agriculture is therefore highly variable on decadal to millennial time scales and depends on the specific management practices that are followed during the agricultural period. State factors such as climate and parent material (particularly clay content and mineralogy) modify ecosystem processes such that they may be useful predictors of rates of postagricultural biogeochemical change. In addition to accurate biogeochemical budgets of postagricultural systems, ecosystem models that more explicitly incorporate mechanisms of SOM loss and formation with agricultural practices will be helpful. Developing this predictive capacity will aid in ecological restoration efforts and improve the management of modern agroecosystems as demands on agriculture become more pressing.
25470389|The cold deserts of the Colorado Plateau contain numerous geologically and geochemically distinct sedimentary bedrock types. In the area near Canyonlands National Park in Southeastern Utah, geochemical variation in geologic substrates is related to the depositional environment with higher concentrations of Fe, Al, P, K, and Mg in sediments deposited in alluvial or marine environments and lower concentrations in bedrock derived from eolian sand dunes. Availability of soil nutrients to vegetation is also controlled by the formation of secondary minerals, particularly for P and Ca availability, which, in some geologic settings, appears closely related to variation of CaCO and Caphosphates in soils. However, the results of this study also indicate that P content is related to bedrock and soil Fe and Al content suggesting that the deposition history of the bedrock and the presence of P-bearing Fe and Al minerals, is important to contemporary P cycling in this region. The relation between bedrock type and exchangeable Mg and K is less clear-cut, despite large variation in bedrock concentrations of these elements. We examined soil nutrient concentrations and foliar nutrient concentration of grasses, shrubs, conifers, and forbs in four geochemically distinct field sites. All four of the functional plant groups had similar proportional responses to variation in soil nutrient availability despite large absolute differences in foliar nutrient concentrations and stoichiometry across species. Foliar P concentration (normalized to N) in particular showed relatively small variation across different geochemical settings despite large variation in soil P availability in these study sites. The limited foliar variation in bedrock-derived nutrients suggests that the dominant plant species in this dryland setting have a remarkably strong capacity to maintain foliar chemistry ratios despite large underlying differences in soil nutrient availability.
41507788|Watershed 1 (W1) at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire, with chronically low pH and acid neutralizing capacity (ANC) in surface water, was experimentally treated with calcium silicate (CaSiO; wollastonite) in October 1999 to assess the role of calcium (Ca) supply in the structure and function of base-poor forest ecosystems. Wollastonite addition significantly increased the concentrations and fluxes of Ca, dissolved silica (Si), and ANC and decreased the concentrations and fluxes of inorganic monomeric Al (Al i ) and hydrogen ion (H) in both soil solution and stream water in all sub-watersheds of W1. Mass balances indicate that 54% of the added Ca remained undissolved or was retained by vegetation during the first 6 years after treatment. Of the remaining added Ca, 44% was retained on O horizon cation exchange sites. The Ca:Si ratio in the dissolution products was greater than 2.0, more than twice the molar ratio in the applied wollastonite. This suggests that Ca was preferentially leached from the applied wollastonite and/or Si was immobilized by secondary mineral formation. Approximately 2% of the added Ca and 7% of the added Si were exported from W1 in stream water in the first 6 years after treatment. Watershed-scale Ca amendment with wollastonite appears to be an effective approach to mitigating effects of acidic deposition. Not only does it appear to alleviate acidification stress to forest vegetation, but it also provides for the longterm supply of ANC to acid-impacted rivers and lakes downstream.
23501483|Eelgrass beds provide valuable refuge, foraging, and spawning habitat for many marine species, including valued species such as Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.), Pacific herring (Clupea pallasi), and Dungeness crab (Metacarcinus magister). We used dynamic simulations in a food web model of central Puget Sound, Washington, USA developed in the Ecopath with Ecosim software, to examine how the marine community may respond to changes in coverage of native eelgrass (Zostera marina), and how these modeled responses can be assessed using an ecosystem services framework, expressing these services with economic currencies in some cases and biological proxies in others. Increased eelgrass coverage was most associated with increases in commercial and recreational fishing with some small decreases in one non-market activity, bird watching. When we considered ecosystem service categories that are aggregations of individual groups of species, we saw little evidence of strong tradeoffs among marine resources; that is, increasing eelgrass coverage was essentially either positive or neutral for all services we examined, although we did not examine terrestrial activities (for example, land use) that affect eelgrass coverage. Within particular service categories, however, we found cases where the responses to changes in eelgrass of individual groups of species that provide the same type of ecosystem service differed both in the magnitude and in the direction of change. This emphasizes the care that should be taken in combining multiple examples of a particular type of ecosystem service into an aggregate measure of that service.
43677518|Mean trophic level (MTL) is one of the most widely used indicators of marine ecosystem health. It usually represents the relative abundance of fished species across a spectrum of TLs. The reality, ubiquity, and causes of a general decline in the MTL of fisheries catch through time, and whether fisheries catch tracks ecosystem level changes, have engendered much attention. However, the consequences of such patterns for broader ecosystem structure and function remain virtually unexplored. Along the Pacific U.S. Coast, previous work has documented fluctuations and a slow increase in ecosystem MTL from 1977 to 2004. Here, we document a decline in the ecosystem MTL of groundfishes in the same ecosystem from 2003 to 2011, the proximate cause of which was a decrease in the biomass of higher TL groundfishes. Using a food web model, we illustrate how these shifts in ecosystem structure may have resulted in short term, positive responses by many lower TL species in the broader ecosystem. In the longer term, the model predicts that initial patterns of prey release may be tempered in part by lagged responses of other higher TL species, such as salmon and seabirds. Although ecosystem functions related to specific groups like piscivores (excluding high-TL groundfishes) changed, aggregate ecosystem functions altered little following the initial reorganization of biomass, probably due to functional redundancy within the predator guild. Efforts to manage and conserve marine ecosystems will benefit from a fuller consideration of the information content contained within, and implied by, fisheries-independent TL indicators.
23325690|At Booderee National Park, south-eastern Australia, the intensive control of the introduced red fox (Vulpes vulpes) resulted in a major increase in the abundance of a browsing macropod, the swamp wallaby (Wallabia bicolor). This has led to a major decrease in the abundance and biomass of a range of palatable plant species. Fox control has also started a trophic cascade that has resulted in a decline in the abundance of the greater glider (Petauroides volans) a folivorous arboreal marsupial, mediated either through increased predation by owls or increased competition with common brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). We identified five potential scenarios for managing the effects of over-abundant swamp wallabies on the ecosystem as a whole. These were (1) the present scenario of continued intensive fox control and four possible scenarios to redress the problem: (2) ceasing fox control; (3) intensive fox control and intensive wallaby control; (4) introducing dingoes and ceasing fox control; and (5) introducing dingoes and maintaining fox control. We used an ecosystem modelling approach based on a fuzzy cognitive map (FCM) to predict relative estimates of abundance for each scenario for a wide range of taxa in the Booderee National Park ecosystem likely to be affected by each scenario. We addressed uncertainty in our knowledge of the interactions between species by creating alternative models of the system by removing one or more of the uncertain links between species and varying the strength of the remaining interactions in the FCM and aggregated predictions from 100,000 models to estimate the effect of uncertainty on the predictions from our FCM model. In comparison with the current scenario of intensive fox control, scenario 3 had the greatest likelihood of improving the status of palatable plants. Scenarios 2 and 4 reduced the abundance of a range of medium-sized mammals but improved the status of greater gliders, whereas the predicted effects of scenario 5 were uncertain. The FCM modelling approach developed here provided a valuable tool for managers to learn about the potential ecosystem wide effects of management actions while incorporating the likely effects of uncertain knowledge on system outcomes.
27823739|We studied the influence of tree species on soil carbon and nitrogen (N) dynamics in a common garden of replicated monocultures of fourteen angiosperm and gymnosperm, broadleaf and needleleaf species in southwestern Poland. We hypothesized that species would influence soil organic matter (SOM) decomposition primarily via effects on biogeochemical recalcitrance, with species having tissues with high lignin concentrations retarding rates of decomposition in the O and A horizons. Additionally, because prior work demonstrated substantial divergence in foliar and soil base cation concentrations and soil pH among species, we hypothesized that species would influence chemical stabilization of SOM via cation bridging to mineral surfaces in the A-horizon. Our hypotheses were only partially supported: SOM decomposition and microbial biomass were unrelated to plant tissue lignin concentrations, but in the mineral horizon, were significantly negatively related to the percentage of the cation exchange complex (CEC) occupied by polyvalent acidic (hydrolyzing) cations (Al and Fe), likely because these cations stabilize SOM via cation bridging and flocculation and/or because of inhibitory effects of Al or low pH on decomposers. Percent CEC occupied by exchangeable Al and Fe was in turn related to both soil clay content (a parent material characteristic) and root Ca concentrations (a species characteristic). In contrast, species influenced soil N dynamics largely via variation in tissue N concentration. In both laboratory and in situ assays, species having high-N roots exhibited faster rates of net N mineralization and nitrification. Nitrification:mineralization ratios were greater, though, under species with high exchangeable soil Ca2+. Our results indicate that tree species contribute to variation in SOM dynamics, even in the mineral soil horizons. To our knowledge the influence of tree species on SOM decomposition via cation biogeochemistry has not been demonstrated previously, but could be important in other poorly buffered systems dominated by tree species that differ in cation nutrition or that are influenced by acidic deposition.
41505893|Nitrous oxide (NO) emissions from grazed grasslands are estimated to be approximately 28% of global anthropogenic NO emissions. Estimating the NO flux from grassland soils is difficult because of its episodic nature. This study aimed to quantify the NO emissions, the annual NO flux and the emission factor (EF), and also to investigate the influence of environmental and soil variables controlling NO emissions from grazed grassland. Nitrous oxide emissions were measured using static chambers at eight different grasslands in the South of Ireland from September 2007 to August 2009. The instantaneous NO flux values ranged from -186 to 885.6 g NO-N m h and the annual sum ranged from 2  3.51 to 12.55  2.83 kg NO-N ha y for managed sites. The emission factor ranged from 1.3 to 3.4%. The overall EF of 1.81% is about 69% higher than the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) default EF value of 1.25% which is currently used by the Irish Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to estimate NO emission in Ireland. At an N applied of approximately 300 kg ha y, the NO emissions are approximately 5.0 kg NO-N ha y, whereas the NO emissions double to approximately 10 kg N ha for an N applied of 400 kg N ha y. The sites with higher fluxes were associated with intensive N-input and frequent cattle grazing. The NO flux at 17C was five times greater than that at 5C. Similarly, the NO emissions increased with increasing water filled pore space (WFPS) with maximum NO emissions occurring at 60-80% WFPS. We conclude that N application below 300 kg ha y and restricted grazing on seasonally wet soils will reduce NO emissions.
3658678|Complex adaptive systems play a major role in the theory of reciprocal altruism. Starting with Axelrod's celebrated computer tournaments, a wide variety of computer simulations show that cooperation can evolve in populations of selfish agents, both with direct and indirect reciprocation.
40296412|Fuelwood extracted from natural forests serves as a principal energy source in rural regions of many tropical countries. Although fuelwood extraction (even low intensities) might strongly impact the structure and species composition of natural forests, long-term studies remain scarce. Here, we estimate the potential long-term impacts (over several hundred years) of such repeated harvesting of single trees on tropical montane cloud forest in central Veracruz, Mexico, by applying a processbased forest growth model. We simulate a wide range of possible harvesting scenarios differing in wood volume harvested and preferred tree species and sizes, and use a set of indicators to compare their impacts on forest size structure and community composition. Results showed that the overall impact on forest structure and community composition increased linearly with the amount of harvested wood volume. Even at low levels of harvesting, forest size structure became more homogeneous in the long term because large old trees disappeared from the forest, but these changes might take decades or even centuries. Although recruitment of harvested species benefited from harvesting, species composition shifted to tree species that are not used for fuelwood. Our results demonstrate that fuelwood extraction can have marked long-term impacts on tropical montane cloud forests. The results also offer the possibility to support the design of management strategies for the natural species-rich forests that achieve a balance between economic needs and ecological goals of the stakeholders.
27823745|Residential development of lakeshores affects the structure and function of riparian and littoral habitats. Organic detritus in sediments is a critical component of littoral food webs, but the effects of urbanization on sediment characteristics are unexplored. We characterized the quantity of organic sediments in Pacific Northwest lakes along a development gradient and found a 10-fold decline in the proportion of detritus in littoral sediments associated with density of lakeshore dwellings. In a comparison between two fully developed lakes and two undeveloped reference lakes, we examined several possible controls on sedimentary organic content, including terrestrial inputs, decomposition rates and associated macroinvertebrate communities, and physical retention by coarse wood. The littoral sediments of undeveloped lakes ranged from 34 to 77% organic by mass, whereas the range on urban lakes was an order of magnitude less, ranging from 1 to 3% organic. We found no significant differences in terrestrial litter inputs between the two sets of lakes. Leaf litter decomposition rates did not vary significantly between the two sets of lakes, and we found higher densities of shredder macroinvertebrate taxa in the littoral zones of undeveloped lakes. Sedimentary organic matter on undeveloped lakes accumulated in shallow waters and declined with distance from shore, whereas the opposite pattern existed on urban lakes. Our results suggest that coarse wood physically retains organic matter in littoral zones where it can enter the detrital energy pathway, and the loss of this feature on urban lakes alters littoral sediment characteristics, with potentially far-reaching consequences for lake food webs.
3658948|We measured the concentrations and isotopic values (
23325683|The composition of plant communities everywhere now likely comprises alien as well as native species, and those aliens that become invasive have wide-ranging impacts on the structure and function of recipient ecosystems. These impacts include perturbations to soil carbon (C) cycling, but the direction and magnitude of impacts are species and climate dependent, making it difficult to generalize whether a specific invader will promote losses or gains in soil C stocks. Generalizations of a specific invader's impacts are necessary; however, because the range of an invader can encompass thousands of square kilometers, meaning their effects can have broad, regional consequences. To quantify broad-scale and context-dependent impacts of a specific invader, multi-site investigations that capture and measure local and regional environmental heterogeneity are necessary. Using this approach, we show that a widespread grass invader of forest understories is associated with declines in soil C during infilling (spreading within the invaded range). Across the 36 study sites, total soil C stocks declined (P = 0.113) by approximately 12% (estimated mean  SD, uninvaded: 2,429  512.9 vs. invaded: 2,140  520.7 g C m -2 ). The decline in total soil C is driven by a significant (P = 0.047) reduction in the native-derived, mineral-associated soil C fraction. This fraction, whose mass and slow turnover makes it an important C store, is approximately 15% lower in invaded (estimated mean  SD: 1,560  400.4 g C m -2 ) than uninvaded plots (1,826  398.1 g C m -2 ). Notably, declines in this C fraction are only apparent at 21 of the sites, reflecting how environmental heterogeneity in other variables (specifically pH, soil moisture, and clay content) are important to quantify to determine invader impacts across a region. The 26% decline in microbial biomass with invasion (P = 0.011; estimated mean  SD, uninvaded: 10.05  1.79 vs. invaded: 7.40  1.80 g C m -2 ) is also dependent on site characteristics (pH), and reductions are greater where the invader occurs at higher densities. Reductions in microbial biomass and soil C with invasion suggest that grass invasion will alter soil C cycling and decrease forest-C stores across the study region, although invader effects at a specific-site will be dependent on environmental context.
3658995|The Sahara and Sahel regions of northern Africa have complex environmental histories punctuated by sudden and dramatic "regime shifts" in climate and ecological conditions. Here we review the current understanding of the causes and consequences of two environmental regime shifts in the Sahara and Sahel. The first regime shift is the sudden transition from vegetated to desert conditions in the Sahara about 5500 years ago. Geologic data show that wet environmental conditions in this region-giving rise to extensive vegetation, lakes, and wet-lands-came to an abrupt end about 5500 years ago. Explanations for climatic changes in northern Africa during the Holocene have suggested that millennial-scale changes in the Earth's orbit could have caused the wet conditions that prevailed in the early Holocene and the dry conditions prevalent today. However, the orbital hypothesis, by itself, does not explain the sudden regime shift 5500 years ago. Several modeling studies have proposed that strong, nonlinear feedbacks between vegetation and the atmosphere could amplify the effects of orbital variations and create two alternative stable states (or "regimes") in the climate and ecosystems of the Sahara: a "green Sahara" and a "desert Sahara." A recent coupled atmosphere-ocean-land model confirmed that there was a sudden shift from the "green Sahara" to the "desert Sahara" regime approximately 5500 years ago. The second regime shift is the onset of a major 30-year drought over the Sahel around 1969. Several lines of evidence have suggested that the interactions between atmosphere and vegetation act to reinforce either a "wet Sahel" or a "dry Sahel" climatic regime, which may persist for decades at a time. Recent modeling studies have indicated that the shift from a "wet Sahel" to a "dry Sahel" regime was caused by strong feedbacks between the climate and vegetation cover and may have been triggered by slow changes in either land degradation or sea-surface temperatures. Taken together, we conclude that the existence of alternative stable states (or regimes) in the climate and ecosystems of the Sahara and Sahel may be the result of strong, nonlinear interactions between vegetation and the atmosphere. Although the shifts between these regimes occur rapidly, they are made possible by slow, subtle changes in underlying environmental conditions, including slow changes in incoming solar radiation, sea-surface temperatures, or the degree of land degradation.
3658801|There have been several earlier studies that addressed the influence of natural disturbance regimes on coral reefs. Humans alter natural disturbance regimes, introduce new stressors, and modify background conditions of reefs. We focus on how coral reef ecosystems relate to disturbance in an increasingly human-dominated environment. The concept of ecosystem resilience-that is, the capacity of complex systems with multiple stable states to absorb disturbance, reorganize, and adapt to change-is central in this context. Instead of focusing on the recovery of certain species and populations within disturbed sites of individual reefs, we address spatial resilience-that is, the dynamic capacity of a reef matrix to reorganize and maintain ecosystem function following disturbance. The interplay between disturbance and ecosystem resilience is highlighted. We begin the identification of spatial sources of resilience in dynamic seascapes and exemplify and discuss the relation between "ecological memory" (biological legacies, mobile link species, and support areas) and functional diversity for seascape resilience. Managing for resilience in dynamic seascapes not only enhances the likelihood of conserving coral reefs, it also provides insurance to society by sustaining essential ecosystem services.
3658869| Nitrate produced by bacterially mediated nitrification in soils is isotopically distinct from atmospheric nitrate in precipitation.
40296271|Herbivory can change the structure and spatial heterogeneity of vegetation. We ask whether all species of grazers in a savanna ecosystem can have this effect or whether megaherbivores (> 1000 kg) have a 'special' role that cannot be replicated by other species of grazers. We performed a replicated landscape scale experiment that examined the effects of White Rhino on the grass sward, on other species of grazing mammals and on the movement of fire through the landscape. White Rhino maintained short grass ('lawn') patches in mesic areas (~ 750 mm pa) with increases in grass sward height when they were removed. Other species of grazers were unable to maintain short grass communities when White Rhino were removed. In semi-arid areas (~600 mm pa) other, smaller grazers were able to maintain short grass communities in the absence of White Rhino and sward height did not increase. White Rhino removals affected fire by increasing fuel loads and fuel continuity. This resulted in larger, less patchy fires. We propose that the White Rhino acts as an influential ecosystem engineer, creating and maintaining short grass swards, which alter habitat for other grazers and change the fire regime. These results indicate the existence of context-dependent facilitation between White Rhino and other grazers in mesic, but not in semi-arid, savannas. Such top down effects on the ecosystem may have been much more widespread before the extinction of large grazers in the Pleistocene.
3658806|Permafrost thaw resulting from climate warming may dramatically change the succession and carbon dynamics of northern ecosystems. To examine the joint effects of regional temperature and local species changes on peat accumulation following thaw, we studied peat accumulation across a regional gradient of mean annual temperature (MAT). We measured aboveground net primary production (AGNPP) and decomposition over 2 years for major functional groups and used these data to calculate a simple index of net annual aboveground peat accumulation. In addition, we collected cores from six adjacent frozen and thawed bog sites to document peat accumulation changes following thaw over the past 200 years. Aboveground biomass and decomposition were more strongly controlled by local succession than regional climate. AGNPP for some species differed between collapse scars and associated permafrost plateaus and was influenced by regional MAT. A few species, such as Picea mariana trees on frozen bogs and Sphagnum mosses in thawed bogs, sequestered a disproportionate amount of peat; in addition, changes in their abundance following thaw changed peat accumulation.
41505956|Soil respiration from grasslands plays a critical role in determining carbon dioxide (CO) feedbacks between soils and the atmosphere. In these often mesic systems, soil moisture and temperature tend to co-regulate soil respiration. Increasing variance of rainfall patterns may alter abovegroundbelowground interactions and have important implications for the sensitivity of soil respiration to fluctuations in moisture and temperature. We conducted a set of field experiments to evaluate the independent and interactive effects of rainfall variability and plantsoil processes on respiration dynamics. Plant removal had strong effects on grassland soils, which included altered CO flux owing to absence of root respiration; increased soil moisture and temperature; and reduced availability of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) for heterotrophic respiration by microorganisms. These plant-mediated effects interacted with our rainfall variability treatments to determine the sensitivity of soil respiration to both moisture and temperature. Using time-series multiple regression, we found that plants dampened the sensitivity of respiration to moisture under high variability rainfall treatments, which may reflect the relative stability of root contributions to total soil respiration. In contrast, plants increased the sensitivity of respiration to temperature under low variability rainfall treatment suggesting that the environmental controls on soil CO dynamics in mesic habitats may be context dependent. Our results provide insight into the aboveground-belowground mechanisms controlling respiration in grasslands under variable rainfall regimes, which may be important for predicting CO dynamics under current and future climate scenarios.
41505919|We bring together three decades of research from a boreal catchment to facilitate an improved mechanistic understanding of surface water dissolved organic carbon (DOC) regulation across multiple scales. The Krycklan Catchment Study encompasses 15 monitored nested research catchments, ranging from 3 to 6900 ha in size, as well as a set of monitored transects of forested and wetland soils. We show that in small homogenous catchments, hydrological functioning provides a first order control on the temporal variability of stream water DOC. In larger, more heterogeneous catchments, stream water DOC dynamics are regulated by the combined effect of hydrological mechanisms and the proportion of major landscape elements, such as wetland and forested areas. As a consequence, streams with heterogeneous catchments undergo a temporal switch in the DOC source. In a typical boreal catchment covered by 10-20% wetlands, DOC originates predominantly from wetland sources during low flow conditions. During high flow, the major source of DOC is from forested areas of the catchment. We demonstrate that by connecting knowledge about DOC sources in the landscape with detailed hydrological process understanding, an improved representation of stream water DOC regulation can be provided. The purpose of this study is to serve as a framework for appreciating the role of regulating mechanisms, connectivity and scaling for understanding the pattern and dynamics of surface water DOC across complex landscapes. The results from this study suggest that the sensitivity of stream water DOC in the boreal landscape ultimately depends on changes within individual landscape elements, the proportion and connectivity of these affected landscape elements, and how these changes are propagated downstream.
41413973|A positive relationship between interannual sea level and plant growth is thought to stabilize many coastal landforms responding to accelerating rates of sea level rise. Numerical models of delta growth, tidal channel network evolution, and ecosystem resilience incorporate a hump-shaped relationship between inundation and plant primary production, where vegetation growth increases with sea level up to an optimum water depth or inundation frequency. In contrast, we use decade-long measurements of Spartina alterniflora biomass in seven coastal Virginia (USA) marshes to demonstrate that interannual sea level is rarely a primary determinant of vegetation growth. Although we find tepid support for a hump-shaped relationship between aboveground production and inundation when marshes of different elevation are considered, our results suggest that marshes high in the intertidal zone and low in relief are unresponsive to sea level fluctuations. We suggest existing models are unable to capture the behavior of wetlands in these portions of the landscape, and may underestimate their vulnerability to sea level rise because sea level rise will not be accompanied by enhanced plant growth and resultant sediment accumulation.
41505898|The Mer Bleue peatland is a large ombrotrophic bog with hummock-lawn microtopography, poor fen sections and beaver ponds at the margin. Average growing-season (May-October) fluxes of methane (CH) measured in 2002-2003 across the bog ranged from less than 5 mg m d in hummocks, to greater than 100 mg m d in lawns and ponds. The average position of the water table explained about half of the variation in the season average CH fluxes, similar to that observed in many other peatlands in Canada and elsewhere. The flux varied most when the water table position ranged between  15 and 40 cm. To better establish the factors that influence this variability, we measured CH flux at approximately weekly intervals from May to November for 5 years (2004-2008) at 12 collars representing the water table and vegetation variations typical of the peatland. Over the snow-free season, peat temperature is the dominant correlate and the difference among the collars' seasonal average CH flux is partially dependent on water table position. A third important correlate on CH flux is vegetation, particularly the presence of Eriophorum vaginatum, which increases CH flux, as well as differences in the potential of the peat profile to produce and consume CH under anaerobic and aerobic conditions. The combination of peat temperature and water table position with vegetation cover was able to explain approximately 44% of the variation in daily CH flux, based on 1097 individual measurements. There was considerable inter-annual variation in fluxes, associated with varying peat thermal and water table regimes in response to variations in weather, but also by variations in the water level in peripheral ponds, associated with beaver dam activity. Raised water level in the beaver ponds led to higher water tables and increased CH emission in the peatland.
23501296|Wildfires are a pervasive disturbance in boreal forests, and the frequency and intensity of boreal wildfires is expected to increase with climate warming. Boreal forests store a large fraction of global soil organic carbon (C), but relatively few studies have documented how wildfires affect soil microbial communities and soil C dynamics. We used a fire chronosequence in upland boreal forests of interior Alaska with sites that were 1, 7, 12, 24, 55, 90, and 100 years post-fire to examine the short- and long-term responses of fungal community composition, fungal abundance, extracellular enzyme activity, and litter decomposition to wildfires. We hypothesized that post-fire changes in fungal abundance and community composition would constrain decomposition following fires. We found that wildfires altered the composition of soil fungal communities. The relative abundance of ascomycetes significantly increased following fire whereas basidiomycetes decreased. Post-fire decreases in basidiomycete fungi were likely attributable to declines in ectomycorrhizal fungi. Fungal hyphal lengths in the organic horizon significantly declined in response to wildfire, and they required at least 24 years to return to pre-fire levels. Post-fire reductions in fungal hyphal length were associated with decreased activities of hydrolytic extracellular enzymes. In support of our hypothesis, the decomposition rate of aspen and black spruce litter significantly increased as forests recovered from fire. Our results indicate that post-fire reductions in soil fungal abundance and activity likely inhibit litter decomposition following boreal wildfires. Slower rates of litter decay may lead to decreased heterotrophic respiration from soil following fires and contribute to a negative feedback to climate warming.
27823750|Most experimental additions of nitrogen to forest ecosystems apply the N to the forest floor, bypassing important processes taking place in the canopy, including canopy retention of N and/or conversion of N from one form to another. To quantify these processes, we carried out a large-scale experiment and determined the fate of nitrogen applied directly to a mature coniferous forest canopy in central Maine (1820 kg N ha1 y1 as NH4NO3 applied as a mist using a helicopter). In 2003 and 2004 we measured NO3, NH4+, and total dissolved N (TDN) in canopy throughfall (TF) and stemflow (SF) events after each of two growing season applications. Dissolved organic N (DON) was greater than 80% of the TDN under ambient inputs; however NO3 accounted for more than 50% of TF N in the treated plots, followed by NH4+ (35%) and DON (15%). Although NO3 was slightly more efficiently retained by the canopy under ambient inputs, canopy retention of NH4+ as a percent of inputs increased markedly under fertilization. Recovery of less than 30% of the fertilizer N in TF suggested that the forest canopy retained more than 70% of the applied N (>80% when corrected for N which bypassed tree surfaces at the time of fertilizer addition). Results from plots receiving 15N enriched NO3 and NH4+ confirmed bulk N estimations that more NO3 than NH4+ was washed from the canopy by wet deposition. The isotope data did not show evidence of canopy nitrification, as has been reported in other spruce forests receiving much higher N inputs. Conversions of fertilizer-N to DON were observed in TF for both 15NH4+ and 15NO3 additions, and occurred within days of the application. Subsequent rain events were not significantly enriched in 15N, suggesting that canopy DON formation was a rapid process related to recent N inputs to the canopy. We speculate that DON may arise from lichen and/or microbial N cycling rather than assimilation and re-release by tree tissues in this forest. Canopy retention of experimentally added N may meet and exceed calculated annual forest tree demand, although we do not know what fraction of retained N was actually physiologically assimilated by the plants. The observed retention and transformation of DIN within the canopy demonstrate that the fate and ecosystem consequences of N inputs from atmospheric deposition are likely influenced by forest canopy processes, which should be considered in N addition studies.
40296328|We quantified sedimentation of organic carbon in 12 Swedish small boreal lakes (< 0.48 km), which ranged in dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from 4.4 to 21.4 mg Cl. Stable isotope analysis suggests that most of the settling organic matter is of allochthonous origin. Annual sedimentation of allochthonous matter per m lake area was correlated to DOC concentration in the water (R = 0.41), and the relationship was improved when sedimentation data were normalized to water depth (R = 0.58). The net efflux of C as CO from the water to the atmosphere was likewise correlated to DOC concentration (R = 0.52). The losses of organic carbon from the water column via mineralization to CO and via sedimentation were approximately of equal importance throughout the year. Our results imply that DOC is a precursor of the settling matter, resulting in an important pathway in the carbon cycle of boreal lakes. Thus, flocculation of DOC of terrestrial origin and subsequent sedimentation could lead to carbon sequestration by burial in lake sediments.
25470330|Despite recent advances in resolving the scale issue, it remains problematic that so many ecological field studies are still conducted only at small scales because of the constraints imposed by limited resources. To maximize the use of these data, it would be helpful if the researchers could provide guidelines for the appropriate range and scale for the extrapolation of the data and identify the new information that would be needed to extend the scope of their extrapolation. In this paper, we present a method that can be used to detect scale thresholds for the extrapolation of field data through spatial analyses of the physical landscape, using the Fushan Forest, Taiwan, as an example. First, the relationship between the vegetation and the physical landscape was inferred from sample-plot data; this information was in turn used to extrapolate the data over the whole forest area. We then compared the environmental variables in the sample plots versus those in the whole forest area via principal component analysis, landscape classification, and spatial autocorrelation analysis. Analyses of the entire Fushan Forest area showed that there are at least three major spatial scales at which physical gradients are expressed: elevation at the scale of the full forest extent (more than 3,000 m), topographic position at 550 m, and aspect at 250 m. Analyses of the sample plots showed that the plots captured only two of these gradients-topographic position and aspect, but not elevation. Therefore, information from the current field data can only be extrapolated to within 550 m from the sample plots; further information derived from cross-elevation samples is needed to extrapolate beyond that range.
27823703|Many forest ecosystems have been extensively degraded by acidifying pollutants over the last decades. There is also widespread concern about population decline of a number of songbirds due to acidification-driven calcium limitation. We hypothesize that the carrying capacity of forests decreases with reduced soil calcium content. We analyzed songbird assemblage/habitat relationships by territory mapping at 30 sites in a total of five managed beech forests. The sites harbored 38 songbird species. A canonical correspondence analysis showed that soil acidification, represented by soil calcium content, had a significant influence on the species assemblages of the 14 most frequent songbirds. The vertical complexity of the canopy additionally influenced the assemblages. Multiple regressions revealed that the density of the territories of song thrush (Turdus philomelos) and nuthatch (Sitta europaea) were positively correlated to calcium content. Blackbirds (Turdus merula) seemed to compensate for the negative effect of acidification by selecting breeding sites close to forest edges to forage in less acidified agricultural habitats. In contrast, the territorial density of robin (Erithacus rubecula), chaffinch (Phylloscopus collybita) and coal tit (Parus ater) increased with increasing soil acidification. Contrary to our hypothesis, the overall carrying capacity of songbird was not reduced in forests with acidified soils. However, the nesting success of song thrush and blackbird, as determined by the number of fledglings, was higher in the forest with the highest calcium content when compared to the forest with the lowest calcium content. We conclude that some species are severely affected by acidification, whereas others seem to have evolved successful strategies to meet their calcium demand even in acidified habitats.
3658957|I used a mesic to wet precipitation gradient on Maui, Hawaii, to test whether variation in rainfall regulates decomposition in tropical wet forest. Decomposition rates of leaves and roots from the dominant tree species, Metrosideros polymorpha, were measured at six sites similar in temperature regime, parent material, ecosystem age, vegetation, and topographical relief, whereas mean annual precipitation (MAP) at these six sites varied from 2200 to over 5000 mm/y. In situ decomposition rates of leaves placed on the soil surface declined by a factor of 6.4 with increased precipitation, whereas the decomposition rate of roots placed below ground declined by a factor of 2.3 across the gradient. Leaves collected from the 2200-mm site and placed at all sites on the gradient decomposed faster on the soil surface than they did below ground, whereas both above- and belowground decomposition rates of the common leaves decreased by a factor of 2.5 with increased precipitation. Of the environmental variables that changed with MAP, soil oxygen availability appeared to be the proximal factor that limited decomposition rates across the gradient, both above and below ground. When plant tissue collected from all sites across the gradient was decomposed at a common site, leaves from the wettest sites decomposed almost three times more slowly than leaves from the mesic sites. In contrast, roots from across the gradient all decomposed at a similar rate in a common site. Of tissue chemistry variables, high lignin concentration was correlated consistently with slow decomposition for roots and leaves. These results suggest that soil oxygen limitation combined with poorly decomposable leaves caused slower rates of decomposition and nutrient release with increased rainfall in these upland forests.
25470428|The present and future well-being of the world's forest dwelling populations depends on their ability to gain livelihood resources from their immediate environment. Sustainable extraction of non-timber forest products has been promoted by conservationists and development agencies as a feasible strategy for forest dwellers that does not compromise the resource base. Yet surveys of actual resource use suggest that for poorer resource-dependent communities without access to markets, non-timber forest products can only ever represent a safety-net activity and a supplementary income source. Others argue that resource availability, in terms of the diversity and productivity of the forest, is the key parameter in realizing a contribution of forest products to well-being. This paper examines the scope and heterogeneity of forest product use to reveal whether resource availability necessarily provides the context for significant contributions to well-being of forest dwellers. We present data from an area of tropical rainforest, close to Iquitos in Peru, which was previously shown to have high potential value. We find, through a census survey of households within a forest reserve area, that non-timber forest products provide only a relatively small portion of income and that only a small proportion of available products are actually commercialized, despite apparent market availability. We show that the low rates of commercialization can be explained by unequal access capital assets used for extraction, to natural resources themselves, and to product markets. They are also explained by the concentration of capital-poor households on subsistence gathering activities. The value of destructive uses of forests, both logging and agriculture, remain higher than returns from non-timber products. This research demonstrates that although non-timber forest products are an important livelihood source, market integration and commercialization is not everywhere an appropriate or realistic strategy.
3659030|Rates and reactions of biogeochemical processes vary in space and time to produce both hot spots and hot moments of elemental cycling. We define biogeochemical hot spots as patches that show disproportionately high reaction rates relative to the surrounding matrix, whereas hot moments are defined as short periods of time that exhibit disproportionately high reaction rates relative to longer intervening time periods. As has been appreciated by ecologists for decades, hot spot and hot moment activity is often enhanced at terrestrial-aquatic interfaces. Using examples from the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycles, we show that hot spots occur where hydrological flowpaths converge with substrates or other flowpaths containing complementary or missing reactants. Hot moments occur when episodic hydrological flowpaths reactivate and/or mobilize accumulated reactants. By focusing on the delivery of specific missing reactants via hydrologic flowpaths, we can forge a better mechanistic understanding of the factors that create hot spots and hot moments. Such a mechanistic understanding is necessary so that biogeochemical hot spots can be identified at broader spatiotemporal scales and factored into quantitative models. We specifically recommend that resource managers incorporate both natural and artificially created biogeochemical hot spots into their plans for water quality management. Finally, we emphasize the needs for further research to assess the potential importance of hot spot and hot moment phenomena in the cycling of different bioactive elements, improve our ability to predict their occurrence, assess their importance in landscape biogeochemistry, and evaluate their utility as tools for resource management.
25470342|During the 20th century, high mortality rates of Scots pine (Pinus silvestris L.) have been observed over large areas in the Rhne valley (Valais, Switzerland) and in other dry valleys of the European Alps. In this study, we evaluated drought as a possible inciting factor of Scots pine decline in the Valais. Averaged tree-ring widths, standardized tree-ring series, and estimated annual mortality risks were related to a drought index. Correlations between drought indices and standardized tree-ring series from 11 sites showed a moderate association. Several drought years and drought periods could be detected since 1864 that coincided with decreased growth. Although single, extreme drought years had generally a short-term, reversible effect on tree growth, multi-year drought initiated prolonged growth decreases that increased a tree's long-term risk of death. Tree death occurred generally several years or even decades after the drought. In conclusion, drought has a limiting effect on tree growth and acts as a bottleneck event in triggering Scots pine decline in the Valais.
25470420|The land-use history of an ecosystem influences current structure and possibly response to modern disturbances and stresses. In semiarid systems the nature of land-use legacies is poorly understood, confounding efforts to establish sustainable management approaches. We compare previously cultivated and non-cultivated lands in Owens Valley, California, where cultivation once extended to 34% of the valley floor but was largely discontinued by 1940, to measure the influence of past disturbance on modern vegetation. We combined historic maps of cultivated and non-cultivated land with an extensive vegetation survey, historic aerial photographs, and satellite measurements of vegetation response to precipitation variability to examine the importance of land-use history in determining the sensitivity of vegetation to annual variations in precipitation. Remote sensing analysis showed that total plant cover on previously cultivated lands was lower and fluctuations in cover were marginally more dependent on precipitation compared with plant cover on non-cultivated lands. We then compared modern plant assemblages within cultivated and non-cultivated land to determine if compositional differences could explain the current patterns of vegetation cover. We found lower species richness on previously cultivated parcels, and higher frequency and cover of perennial grasses on non-cultivated lands. Therefore, we showed differences in land-cover patterns, isolated a mechanism that could account for the differences (species differences), and developed a method for remotely analyzing land regions that have experienced historic anthropogenic disturbance.
3658755|Large, infrequent disturbances (LIDs) can have significant impacts yet seldom are included in management plans. Although this neglect may stem from relative unfamiliarity with a kind of event that rarely occurs in the experience or jurisdiction of individual managers, it may also reflect the assumption that LIDs are so large and powerful as to be beyond the ability of managers to affect. However, some LIDs can be affected by management, and for many of those that cannot be affected, the resilience or recovery of the system disrupted by the disturbance can be influenced to meet management goals. Such results can be achieved through advanced planning that allows for LIDs, whether caused by natural events, human activities, or a combination of the two. Management plans for LIDs may adopt a variety of goals, depending on the nature of the system and the nature of the anticipated disturbance regime. Managers can choose to influence (a) the system prior to the disturbance, (b) the disturbance itself, (c) the system after the disturbance, or (d) the recovery process. Prior to the disturbance, the system can be managed in ways that alter its vulnerability or change how it will respond to a disturbance. The disturbance can be managed through no action, preventive measures, or manipulations that can affect the intensity or frequency of the disturbance. Recovery efforts can focus on either managing the state of the system immediately after the disturbance or managing the ongoing process of recovery. This review of the management implications of LIDs suggests that management actions should be tailored to particular disturbance characteristics and management goals. Management actions should foster survival of residuals and spatial heterogeneity that promote the desired recovery pattern and process. Most importantly, however, management plans need to recognize LIDs and include the potential for such disturbances to occur.
25053861|The aim of this study was to help understand the interaction of rural people with tropical dry forests. It was based on social research conducted in the Chamela-Cuixmala region, on the Pacific coast of Mexico. The analytical tools used in the study included stakeholder identification, environmental history and social perceptions. The two main social groups in the study were ejidatarios, who own most of the territory, and avecindados, who possess no land but have high population numbers. Through an interpretative methodological approach we documented the vision and meaning that rural people give to their natural and social worlds. The agricultural development model promoted by the Mexican government for decades was identified as the main driver of ecosystem transformation. Rural people, who arrived recently in the region, were proud of the pasture-lands that were transformed from tropical forests. Conservation policies implemented during the last two decades were viewed as impositions although people recognized the value of services provided by ecosystems. This case study has helped to unravel the main dimensions of the human system and how it relates to structures of signification. The social panorama unveiled can be used as an initial basis to promote further research on the social-ecological system of the Chamela-Cuixmala region and to develop future participatory management schemes.
23501499|We present the results of a full year of high-resolution monitoring of hydrologic event-driven export of stream dissolved organic matter (DOM) from the forested Bigelow Brook watershed in Harvard Forest, Massachusetts, USA. A combination of in situ fluorescent dissolved organic matter (FDOM) measurement, grab samples, and bioassays was utilized. FDOM was identified as a strong indicator of concentration for dissolved organic carbon (DOC, r 2 = 0.96), dissolved organic nitrogen (DON, r 2 = 0.81), and bioavailable DOC (BDOC, r 2 = 0.81). Relationships between FDOM and concentration were utilized to improve characterization of patterns of hydrological event-driven export and the quantification of annual export. This characterization was possible because DOM composition remained relatively consistent seasonally; however, a subtle shift to increased fluorescence per unit absorbance was observed for summer and fall seasons and percent BDOC did increase slightly with increasing concentrations. The majority of export occurred during pulsed hydrological events, so the greatest impact of bioavailable exports may be on downstream aquatic ecosystems. Export from individual events was highly seasonal in nature with the highest flow weighted mean concentrations (DOC FW ) being observed in late summer and fall months, but the highest total export being observed for larger winter storms. Seasonal trends in DOC export coincide with weather driven changes in surface and subsurface flow paths, potential for depletion and rebuilding of a flushable soil organic matter pool, and the availability of terrestrial carbon sources such as leaf litter. Our approach and findings demonstrate the utility of high frequency FDOM measurement to improve estimates of intra-annual temporal trends of DOM export.
40928230|Availabilities of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) have a strong influence on plant growth and the species composition of savannas, but it is not clear how these availabilities depend on factors such as fire, N-fixation, and activities of wild herbivores and cattle. We quantified soil N and P availabilities in various ways (extractable pools, mineralization, resin adsorption) along vegetation gradients within a recently abandoned cattle ranch and a former game reserve in Tanzania (both areas now part of the Saadani National Park). We also assessed annual N and P balances to evaluate how long-term availabilities of N and P are affected by large herbivores, symbiotic N-fixation, and fire. The results show that cattle ranching led to a spatial re-distribution of nutrients, with the local accumulation of P being stronger and more persistent than that of N. In the former game reserve, intensively grazed patches of short grass tended to have elevated soil N and P availabilities; however, because quantities of nutrients removed through grazing exceeded returns in dung and urine, the nutrient balances of these patches were negative. In dense Acacia stands, N-fixation increased N availability and caused a net annual N input. Fire was the major cause for nutrient losses from tallgrass savanna, and estimated N inputs from the atmosphere and symbiotic N-fixation were insufficient to compensate for these losses. Our results call into question the common assumption that N budgets in annually burned savanna are balanced; rather, these ecosystems are a mosaic of patches with both N enrichment and impoverishment, which vary according to the vegetation type.
23501496|Insect outbreaks in northern-boreal forests are expected to intensify owing to climate warming, but our understanding of direct and cascading impacts of insect outbreaks on forest ecosystem functioning is deficient. The duration and severity of outbreaks by geometrid moths in northern Fennoscandian mountain birch forests have been shown to be accentuated by a recent climate-mediated range expansion, in particular of winter moth (Operophtera brumata). Here, we assess the effect of moth outbreak severity, quantified from satellite-based defoliation maps, on the state of understory vegetation and the abundance of key vertebrate herbivores in mountain birch forest in northern Norway. We show that the most recent moth outbreak caused a regional-scale state change to the understory vegetation, mainly due to a shift in dominance from the allelopathic and unpalatable dwarf-shrub Empetrum nigrum to the productive and palatable grass Avenella flexuosa. Both these central understory plant species responded significantly and nonlinearly to increasing outbreak severity. We further provide evidence that the effects of the outbreak on understory vegetation cascaded to cause strong but opposite impacts on the abundance of the two most common herbivore groups. Rodents increased with defoliation, largely mirroring the increase in A. flexuosa, whereas ungulate abundance instead showed a decreasing trend. Our analyses also suggest that the response of understory vegetation to defoliation may depend on the initial state of the forest, with poorer forest types potentially allowing stronger responses to defoliation.
25470377|In this work, we summarize our current understanding of the function of riparian zones and describe an investigation of changes in the production per unit nitrogen (N) taken up, or nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) and resource allocation of a riparian shrub in response to changes in N availability. Empirical work included measuring leaf %N and root-to-shoot ratios (R:S) of individual riparian shrubs (Baccharis salicifolia, or seepwillow) growing at a range of N availabilities in the field and growing in fertilized and unfertilized plots in a field fertilization experiment. In both observational and experimental work, N availability was related positively to %N of plant tissues and negatively to R:S. We used a simulation model to investigate feedbacks between seepwillow responses to and effects on N availability. In the model, plasticity in resource allocation and NUE in response to changes in N led to lower productivity at low N supply and higher productivity and lower retention at high N supply than was observed in plants constrained to a constant %N and R:S. Furthermore, uptake became relatively more important as a retention mechanism when plants responded to high N supply. These feedbacks could have significant effects on N retention by riparian zones in watersheds receiving large fertilizer inputs of N or on ecosystems exposed to high rates of atmospheric N deposition.
41505904|Termites produce methane (CH) as a by-product of microbial metabolism of food in their hindguts, and are one of the most uncertain components of the regional and global CH exchange estimates. This study was conducted at Howard Springs near Darwin, and presents the first estimate of CH emissions from termites based on replicated in situ seasonal flux measurements in Australian savannas. Using measured fluxes of CH between termite mounds and the atmosphere, and between soil and the atmosphere across seasons we determined net CH flux within a tropical savanna woodland of northern Australia. By accounting for both moundbuilding and subterranean termite colony types, and estimating the contribution from tree-dwelling colonies it was calculated that termites were a CH source of +0.24 kg CH-C ha y and soils were a CH sink of -1.14 kg CH-C ha y. Termites offset 21% of CH consumed by soil resulting in net sink strength of -0.90 kg CH-C ha y for these savannas. For Microcerotermes nervosus (Hill), the most abundant mound-building termite species at this site, mound basal area explained 48% of the variation in mound CH flux. CH emissions from termites offset 0.1% of the net biome productivity (NBP) and CH consumption by soil adds 0.5% to the NBP of these tropical savannas at Howard Springs.
3658887|In one of the most influential studies in the recent history of forest ecology, W. W. Covington (1981) described a pattern in organic matter storage in the forest floors of northern hardwood stands as a function of date of harvest. We review the history of the use and misuse of Covington's curve, describe the studies that tested and failed to support early interpretations of the curve, and provide some alternate interpretations. The curve suggested that forest floor organic matter declines by 50% within 20 years after harvest, and this decline was attributed to accelerated decomposition and changes in litter inputs after harvest. Subsequent studies showed that decomposition rates of surface litter generally decrease after clear-cutting, but accelerated decomposition remains possible in the Oe and Oa horizons. Changes in litter inputs are still difficult to evaluate, because the rate at which woody debris enters the forest floor is unknown. Although Covington attempted to minimize variation due to mechanical disturbance during logging, a reasonable alternative explanation for low organic matter in the forest floor of young stands is that surface material is mixed into mineral soil during harvesting operations. The pattern of forest floor organic matter in stands of different ages may be partly due to changes over time in logging technology and the intensity of biomass removal, in addition to successional effects. It is important to distinguish between mechanisms that release carbon to the atmosphere and those that transfer it to the mineral soil before making inferences about nutrient cycling and carbon sequestration.
41413968|Elevated concentrations of atmospheric CO and tropospheric O will profoundly influence future forest productivity, but our understanding of these influences over the long-term is poor. Leaves are key indicators of productivity and we measured the mass, area, and nitrogen concentration of leaves collected in litter traps from 2002 to 2008 in three young northern temperate forest communities exposed to elevated CO and/or elevated O since 1998. On average, the overall effect of elevated CO (+CO and +CO+O versus ambient and +O) was to increase leaf mass by 36% whereas the overall effect of elevated O was to decrease leaf mass by 13%, with similar effects on stand leaf area. However, there were important CO x O x year interactions wherein some treatment effects on leaf mass changed dramatically relative to ambient from 2002 to 2008. For example, stimulation by the +CO treatment decreased (from +52 to +25%). whereas the deleterious effects of the +O treatment increased (from -5 to -18%). In comparison, leaf mass in the +CO+O treatment was similar to ambient throughout the study. Forest composition influenced these responses: effects of the +O treatment on community-level leaf mass ranged from +2 to -19%. These findings are evidence that community composition, stand development processes, CO, and O strongly interact. Changes in leaf nitrogen concentration were inconsistent, but leaf nitrogen mass (g m) was increased by elevated CO(+30%) and reduced by elevated O(-16%), consistent with observations that nitrogen cycling is accelerated by elevated CO but retarded by elevated O.
40296359|We compared regression tree analyses and multiple linear regression models to explore the relative importance of physical factors, land use, and water quality in predicting phytoplankton production and N fixation potentials at 85 locations along riverine to lacustrine gradients within eight southern reservoirs. The regression tree model (r = 0.73) revealed that differences in phytoplankton production were primarily a function of water depth. The highest rates of production (mg C m h) occurred at shallow sites (< 0.9m), where rates were also related to total phosphorus (TP) levels. At deeper sites, production rates were higher at sites with relative drainage area (RDA, ratio of drainage area to water surface area) below 45, potentially due to longer hydraulic residence times. In contrast, multiple linear regression selected TP, RDA, dissolved phosphorus, and percent developed land as significant model variables (r = 0.63). The regression tree model (r = 0.67) revealed that N fixation potentials (mg N m h) were substantially higher at sites with relatively smaller drainage areas (RDA < 45). Within this subgroup, fixation rates were additionally related to TP values (threshold = 41 g 1). The multiple linear regression model (r = 0.67) also selected RDA as the primary predictor of N fixation. Regression tree models suggest that nutrient controls (phosphorus) were subordinate to physical factors such as depth and RDA. We concluded that regression tree analysis was well suited to revealing nonlinear trends in data (for example, depth), but yielded large uncertainty estimates when applied to linear data (for example, phosphorus).
3658740|Plant ecophysiological changes in response to climatic change may be different in northern and southern European countries because different abiotic factors constrain plant physiological activity. We studied the effects of experimental warming and drought on the photosynthetic performance of two ericaceous shrubs (Erica multiflora and Calluna vulgaris) along a European gradient of temperature and precipitation (UK, Denmark, The Netherlands, and Spain). At each site, a passive warming treatment was applied during the night throughout the whole year, whereas the drought treatment excluded rain events over 6-10 weeks during the growing season. We measured leaf gas exchange, chlorophyll a fluorescence, and leaf carbon isotope ratio (
25053886|We examined the dynamics of fish species and how they relate to species assemblage coherence in the heavily exploited Georges Bank fish community. Coherence is defined as reduced temporal variability of total assemblage biomass. We assumed that a higher degree of compensation hence coherence occurs within competitively coupled species assemblages; therefore, fisheries may directly alter the dynamics of certain targeted species sizes but assemblage structure will be relatively more stable owing to compensatory interactions. Species-sizes were grouped, based on negative covariance coupling in biomass time series from survey data. Assemblages representing benthic feeders were clearly identified by this method; furthermore, the most heavily exploited species-sizes were decoupled from other species-sizes suggesting that fisheries have diminished their potential to compensate or to be compensated for by competitive interactions. Biomass of species-sizes within known trophic guilds strongly compensated other guild-member biomass fluctuations if the diet of guild members was more specialized. This is an indication that more competitive conditions (more specialization) foster greater compensatory responses between competitors biomass fluctuations.
3658584|Animal body sizes reflect the discontinuous architecture of the landscapes in which they live, and consequently their body-mass distributions are distinctly clumped rather than continuous. This architectural discontinuity is generated by ecological processes that discretely operate over micro-, meso-, and macroscales. Therefore, changes in these important scale-specific processes for a given geographical region over time should be reflected by corresponding changes in faunal body-mass clump patterns. In this study, we utilized this hypothesis to investigate the terminal Pleistocene mammal extinction event. Specifically, we analyzed the body-mass distributions of latest Pleistocene and modern mammal faunas from northern Florida and southern California to determine the nature of any changes in the clump structures of these regions during the Pleistocene-Holocene transition. In both regions, despite their wide geographical separation and faunal distinctiveness, body-mass clumps below the 40-kg level were remarkably stable across the Pleistocene-Holocene transition despite suffering extinctions. Larger clumps, in contrast, were either orderly truncated or completely eliminated rather than chaotically fragmented. Based on these findings, we argue that the terminal Pleistocene mammal extinctions were caused, at least in part, by changes in key mesoscale aspects of the landscape crucial to supporting a diversity of large mammals.
3658966|Boreal Shield rocky ridges at the Experimental Lakes Area, northwestern Ontario, contain two plant/soil communities with contrasting N cycles. Picea mariana-Pinus banksiana "forest islands" are N limited whereas the lichen, moss, and grass community (or "lichen patches") on the surrounding bedrock outcrops appear intrinsically N saturated. The potential for this landscape to retain a N input of eightfold ambient levels was tested with a 2-y addition of
40296274|Urban ecosystems are profoundly modified by human activities and thereby provide a unique "natural laboratory" to study potential ecosystem responses to anthropogenic environmental changes. Because urban environments are now affected by urban heat islands, carbon dioxide domes, and high-level nitrogen deposition, to some extent they portend the future of the global ecosystem. Urbanization in the metropolitan region of Phoenix, Arizona (USA) has resulted in pronounced changes in air temperature (Tair), atmospheric CO concentration, and nitrogen deposition (Ndep ). In this study, we used a process-based ecosystem model to explore how the Larrea tridentata dominated Sonoran Desert ecosystem may respond to these urbanization-induced environmental changes. We found that water availability controls the magnitude and pattern of responses of the desert ecosystem to elevated CO , air temperature, N deposition and their combinations. Urbanization effects were much stronger in wet years than normal and dry years. At the ecosystem level, aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and soil organic matter (SOM) both increased with increasing CO and Ndep individually and in combinations with changes in Tair . Soil N (NSoil) responded positively to increased N deposition and air temperature, but negatively to elevated CO. Correspondingly, ANPP and SOM of the Larrea ecosystem decreased along the urban-suburbanwildland gradient, whereas NSoil peaked in the suburban area. At the plant functional type (FT) level, ANPP generally responded positively to elevated CO and Ndep , but negatively to increased Tair. C winter annuals showed a greater ANPP response to higher CO levels (> 420 ppm) than shrubs, which could lead over the long term to changes in species composition, because competition among functional groups is strong for resources such as soil water and nutrients. Overall, the combined effects of the three environmental factors depended on rainfall variability and nonlinear interactions within and between plant functional types and environmental factors. We intend to use these simulation results as working hypotheses to guide our field experiments and observations. Experimental testing of these hypotheses through this process should improve our understanding of urban ecosystems under increasing environmental stresses.
25622905|We evaluated the biogeochemical cycling and relative greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation potential of proposed biofuel feedstock crops by modeling growth dynamics of Miscanthus  giganteus Greef et Deuter (miscanthus), Panicum virgatum L. (switchgrass), Zea mays L. (corn), and a mixed prairie community under identical field conditions. DAYCENT model simulations for miscanthus were parameterized with data from trial plots in Europe and Illinois, USA. Switchgrass, corn, and prairie ecosystems were simulated using parameters published in the literature. A previously unknown source of nitrogen (N) was necessary to balance the plant nutrient budget in miscanthus crops, leading us to hypothesize that miscanthus growth depends on N-fixation. We tested for nitrogenase activity by acetylene reduction of whole rhizomes and bacteria isolated from the rhizosphere and miscanthus tissue. Our results supported the hypothesis that biological N-fixation contributed to the N demand of miscanthus, a highly productive perennial grass. Corn agro-ecosystems emit $956\ \text{to}\ 1899\ {\rm g}\ {\rm CO}_{2{\rm eq}}\ {\rm m}^{-2}{\rm y}^{-1}$ greater GHGs (including CO, NO, CH) to the atmosphere than the other biofuel crop alternatives because of greater NO emissions from fertilizer additions. Of the feedstock crops evaluated in this study, miscanthus would result in the greatest GHG reduction.
25053887|European earthworms are colonizing worm-free hardwood forests across North America. Leading edges of earthworm invasion in forests of northern Minnesota provide a rare opportunity to document changes in soil characteristics as earthworm invasions are occurring. Across leading edges of earthworm invasion in four northern hardwood stands, increasing total earthworm biomass was associated with rapid disappearance of the O horizon. Concurrently, the thickness, bulk density and total soil organic matter content of the A horizon increased, and it's percent organic matter and fine root density decreased. Different earthworm species assemblages influenced the magnitude and type of change in these soil parameters. Soil N and P availability were lower in plots with high earthworm biomass compared to plots with low worm biomass. Decreases in soil nitrogen availability associated with high earthworm biomass were reflected in decreased foliar nitrogen content for Carex pensylvanica, Acer saccharum and Asarum canadense but increased foliar N for Athyrium felix-femina. Overall, high earthworm biomass resulted in increased foliar carbon to nitrogen ratios. The effects of earthworm species assemblages on forest soil properties are related to their feeding and burrowing habits in addition to effects related to total biomass. The potential for large ecosystem consequences following exotic earthworm invasion has only recently been recognized by forest ecologists. In the face of rapid change and multiple pressures on native forest ecosystems, the impacts of earthworm invasion on forest soil structure and function must be considered.
23501495|Expansion of woody vegetation into areas that were historically grass-dominated is a significant contemporary threat to grasslands, including native tallgrass prairie ecosystems of the Midwestern United States. In tallgrass prairie, much of this woody expansion is concentrated in riparian zones with potential impacts on biogeochemical processes there. Although the effects of woody riparian vegetation on denitrification in both riparian soils and streams have been well studied in naturally wooded ecosystems, less is known about the impacts of woody vegetation encroachment in ecosystems that were historically dominated by herbaceous vegetation. Here, we analyze the effect of afforestation and subsequent woody plant removal on riparian and benthic denitrification. Denitrification rates in riparian soil and selected benthic compartments were measured seasonally in naturally grass-dominated riparian zones, woody encroached riparian zones, and riparian zones with woody vegetation removed in two separate watersheds. Riparian soil denitrification was highly seasonal, with the greatest rates in early spring. Benthic denitrification also exhibited high temporal variability, but no seasonality. Soil denitrification rates were greatest in riparian zones where woody vegetation was removed. Additionally, concentrations of nitrate, carbon, and soil moisture (indicative of potential anoxia) were greatest in wood removal soils. Differences in the presence and abundance of benthic compartments reflected riparian vegetation, and may have indirectly affected denitrification in streams. Riparian soil denitrification increased with soil water content and NO 3 - . Management of tallgrass prairies that includes removal of woody vegetation encroaching on riparian areas may alter biogeochemical cycling by increasing nitrogen removed via denitrification while the restored riparian zones return to a natural grass-dominated state.
43677499|Forest ecosystems in most industrialized and agricultural regions receive elevated rates of atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition from air pollution. To evaluate the effects of excess N deposition on carbon (C) and N cycling, we experimentally added N (as NHNO) to naturally-occurring, single-species plots of five different tree species that are common in the Northern Hardwood forests of northeastern North America: sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh), American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.), yellow birch (Betula alleghaniensis Britton), eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr), and northern red oak (Quercus rubra L.). The experiment was performed in the Catskill Mountains of southeastern New York State, USA, and used a paired-plot design with six replicate plots per species. After 6 years of treatment, most species showed increases in foliar N concentrations in N-treated plots, but only for maple and birch were those increases statistically significant. No significant effects of the N treatment were observed on woody biomass increment or aboveground net primary production (ANPP) for any species. In the oak plots, the N treatment increased acorn production in mast years. In the soils, the N treatment was associated with a significant decline in potential N mineralization and nitrification rates in the mineral horizon but not in the forest floor, and in the mineral horizon the effect of the N treatment varied among species. The N treatment caused a significant increase in C stock, N stock and C:N ratio in the forest floor, with the largest effect in the hemlock plots. Nitrate leaching increased significantly in treated plots compared to controls. Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in soil solution was unaffected by the N treatment, but the variation in DOC across plots was correlated with the C stock in the forest floor. These results suggest that the ANPP of these forests is not limited by N availability, but that excess N may cause accumulations of C in the forest floor, particularly in hemlock stands, perhaps through inhibition of decomposition rates or by altering phenolic chemistry of the litter. The magnitude, and sometimes the direction of the N treatment responses varied among species, suggesting that predictions of forest responses to elevated N deposition should take into account spatial and temporal variation in tree species composition.
27823702|In many areas of the northern Mediterranean Basin the abundance of forest and scrubland vegetation is increasing, commensurate with decreases in agricultural land use(s). Much of the land use/cover change (LUCC) in this region is associated with the marginalization of traditional agricultural practices due to ongoing socioeconomic shifts and subsequent ecological change. Regression-based models of LUCC have two purposes: (i) to aid explanation of the processes driving change and/or (ii) spatial projection of the changes themselves. The independent variables contained in the single 'best' regression model (that is, that which minimizes variation in the dependent variable) cannot be inferred as providing the strongest causal relationship with the dependent variable. Here, we examine the utility of hierarchical partitioning and multinomial regression models for, respectively, explanation and prediction of LUCC in EU Special Protection Area 56, 'Encinares del ro Alberche y Cofio' (SPA 56) near Madrid, Spain. Hierarchical partitioning estimates the contribution of regression model variables, both independently and in conjunction with other variables in a model, to the total variance explained by that model and is a tool to isolate important causal variables. By using hierarchical partitioning we find that the combined effects of factors driving land cover transitions varies with land cover classification, with a coarser classification reducing explained variance in LUCC. We use multinomial logistic regression models solely for projecting change, finding that accuracies of maps produced vary by land cover classification and are influenced by differing spatial resolutions of socioeconomic and biophysical data. When examining LUCC in human-dominated landscapes such as those of the Mediterranean Basin, the availability and analysis of spatial data at scales that match causal processes is vital to the performance of the statistical modelling techniques used here.
25053838|The Boundary Waters Canoe Area (BWCA) Wilderness of northern Minnesota, USA, ememplifies how fire management and natural disturbance determine forest composition and landscape structure at a broad scale. Historically, the BWCA (>400,000 ha) was subject to crown fires with a mean rotation period of 50-100 y. Fires often overlapped, creating a mosaic of differently aged stands with many stands burning frequently or, alternatively, escaping fire for several centuries. The BWCA may never have reached a steady-state (defined as a stable landscape age-class structure). In the early 1900s, a diminished fire regime began creating a more demographically diverse forest, characterized by increasingly uneven-aged stands. Shade-tolerant species typical of the region began replacing the shade-intolerant species that composed the fire-generated even-aged stands. Red pine (Pinus resinosa) stands are relatively uncommon in the BWCA today and are of special concern. The replacement of early-to-midsuccessional species is occurring at the scale of individual gaps, producing mixed-species multiaged forests. We used LANDIS, a spatially explicit forest landscape model, to investigate the long-term consequences of fire reintroduction or continuing fire absence on forest composition and landscape structure. Fire reintroduction was evaluated at three potential mean fire rotation periods (FRP): 50,100, and 300 y. Our model scenarios predict that if fire reintroduction mimics the natural fire regime (bracketed by FRP = 50 and 100 y), it will be most successful at preserving the original species composition and landscape structure, although jack pine (Pinus banksiana) may require special management. With limited fire reintroduction, all of the extant species are retained although species dominance and landscape structure will be substantially altered. If fire remains absent, many fire-dependent species will be lost as local dominants, including red pine. The landscape appears to be in a state of rapid change and a shift in management to promote fire may need to be implemented soon to prevent further deviation from historic, presettlement conditions.
25470404|The Tongass National Forest (Tongass) is the largest national forest and largest area of old-growth forest in the United States. Spatial geographic information system data for the Tongass were combined with forest inventory data to estimate and map total carbon stock in the Tongass; the result was 2.8  0.5 Pg C, or 8% of the total carbon in the forests of the conterminous USA and 0.25% of the carbon in global forest vegetation and soils. Cumulative net carbon loss from the Tongass due to management of the forest for the period 1900-95 was estimated at 6.4-17.2 Tg C. Using our spatially explicit data for carbon stock and net flux, we modeled the potential effect of five management regimes on future net carbon flux. Estimates of net carbon flux were sensitive to projections of the rate of carbon accumulation in second-growth forests and to the amount of carbon left in standing biomass after harvest. Projections of net carbon flux in the Tongass range from 0.33 Tg C annual sequestration to 2.3 Tg C annual emission for the period 1995-2095. For the period 1995-2195, net flux estimates range from 0.19 Tg C annual sequestration to 1.6 Tg C annual emission. If all timber harvesting in the Tongass were halted from 1995 to 2095, the economic value of the net carbon sequestered during the 100-year hiatus, assuming $20/Mg C, would be $4 to $7 million/y (1995 US dollars). If a prohibition on logging were extended to 2195, the annual economic value of the carbon sequestered would be largely unaffected ($3 to $6 million/y). The potential annual economic value of carbon sequestration with management maximizing carbon storage in the Tongass is comparable to revenue from annual timber sales historically authorized for the forest.
3658597|Indirect trophic effects play important roles in ecosystem dynamics and can at times oppose and dominate the action of direct feeding linkages. Each predator directly exerts a negative effect upon its prey, but predators may also provide indirect benefits to their prey. In ecosystems, such benefits are effected via indirect trophic pathways that can provide a more than compensating positive influence. The ecosystem of the Big Cypress National Preserve (southwest Florida) appears to contain an unusually high number of such predators-most notably, the American alligator, Alligator mississippiensis. The trophic exchanges of carbon among the 68 principal taxa comprising the cypress wetland ecosystem have been quantified during both wet and dry seasons. The network analysis program IMPACTS identified predators that potentially have a positive influence on some of their prey. A total of 64 of these instances were recorded for the wet season and 44 for the dry. Taxa that, on balance, have positive effects upon their prey include fishes, turtles, snakes, birds, and, most significantly, alligators. The feeding habits of alligators benefit a conspicuous number (11) of their prey (invertebrates, frogs, mice, and rats). Further trophic analysis reveals that the predation by alligators on snakes and turtles accounts for most of the trophic benefits bestowed. The actions of alligators in modifying their physical environment has been cited elsewhere as contributing to the maintenance of biotic diversity. It appears that the trophic influence of this species adds further evidence to the important role it plays in the functional ecology of the cypress wetland.
23501294|Recent high-latitude warming is increasing the vulnerability of permafrost to thaw, which is amplified by local disturbances such as fire. However, the long-term ecological effects and carbon dynamics are not well understood. Here we present a 2200-year record of pollen, plant macrofossils, testate amoebae, and apparent carbon (C) accumulation rates from two peat cores in a collapsescar bog (thermokarst) near Fairbanks, Alaska. A black spruce ecosystem with low apparent C accumulation rates existed on the site during the first 1500 years of the record. We identify two thaw events, which are linked to local fires. Permafrost aggraded rapidly following the first thaw, which we attribute to local vegetation feedbacks and a cooler climate. The second thaw event at 525 cal y BP is preceded by a stand-replacing fire, as evidenced by a drastic decline in Picea and an initial increase in Epilobium, Salix, and ericaceous shrubs, followed by a sustained increase in Populus. Locally, the forest does not recover for more than 100 years, and the site has remained permafrost-free for the last 500 years. Following thaw, average apparent C accumulation rates (60 to > 100 g C m -2 y -1 ) are 56 times higher than average boreal C accumulation rates, indicating that peat C accumulation rates can remain substantially elevated for much more than a century following thaw. The low apparent C accumulation for the formerly forested, permafrost peat (< 5 g C m -2 y -1 ) may suggest that C accumulation increases substantially following thaw, but it remains unknown whether deep peat C loss occurred immediately following thaw. Well-preserved Sphagnum peat dominates during this period of rapid accumulation, except for an interval from 400 to 275 cal y BP which alternates between Sphagnum and vascular plant-dominated peat and wetter, minerotrophic conditions. A decline in Picea pollen during this interval and again 100 cal y BP suggests a decrease in suitable substrate for tree growth likely attributable to thermokarst expansion on the collapse-scar margin. These findings suggest that the combined effects of fire and thermokarst will result in a long-term reduction of spruce ecosystems in interior Alaska.
41413046|A predictive equation for estimating fire frequency was developed from theories and data in physical chemistry, ecosystem ecology, and climatology. We refer to this equation as the Physical Chemistry Fire Frequency Model (PC2FM). The equation was calibrated and validated with North American fire data (170 sites) prior to widespread industrial influences (before ~1850 CE) related to land use, fire suppression, and recent climate change to minimize non-climatic effects. We derived and validated the empirically based PC2FM for the purpose of estimating mean fire intervals (MFIs) from proxies of mean maximum temperature, precipitation, their interaction, and estimated reactant concentrations. Parameterization of the model uses reaction rate equations based on the concentration and physical chemistry of fuels and climate. The model was then calibrated and validated using centuries of empirical fire history data. An application of the PC2FM regression equation is presented and used to estimate historic MFI as controlled by climate. We discuss the effects of temperature, precipitation, and their interactions on fire frequency using the PC2FM concept and results. The exclusion of topographic, vegetation, and ignition variables from the PC2FM increased error at fine spatial scales, but allowed for the prediction of complex climate effects at broader temporal and spatial scales. The PC2FM equation is used to map coarse-scale historic fire frequency and assess climate impacts on landscapescale fire regimes.
25622886|Herbivory is a key process structuring plant communities in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, with variation in herbivory often being related to shifts between alternate states. On coral reefs, regional reductions in herbivores have underpinned shifts from coral to dominance by leathery macroalgae. These shifts appear difficult to reverse as these macroalgae are unpalatable to the majority of herbivores, and the macroalgae suppress the recruitment and growth of corals. The removal of macroalgae is, therefore, viewed as a key ecological process on coral reefs. On the Great Barrier Reef, Sargassum is a dominant macroalgal species following experimentally induced coralmacroalgal phase-shifts. We, therefore, used Sargassum assays and remote video cameras to directly quantify the species responsible for removing macroalgae across a range of coral reef habitats on Lizard Island, northern Great Barrier Reef. Despite supporting over 50 herbivorous fish species and six macroalgal browsing species, the video footage revealed that a single species, Naso unicornis, was almost solely responsible for the removal of Sargassum biomass across all habitats. Of the 42,246 bites taken from the Sargassum across all habitats, N. unicornis accounted for 89.8% (37,982) of the total bites, and 94.6% of the total mass standardized bites. This limited redundancy, both within and across local scales, underscores the need to assess the functional roles of individual species. Management and conservation strategies may need to look beyond the preservation of species diversity and focus on the maintenance of ecological processes and the protection of key species in critical functional groups.
41505960|Although environmental flow assessments and allocations have been practiced in Australia for nearly 20 years, to date they have not effectively incorporated indigenous values. In many cases, even though indigenous people rely substantially on aquatic resources, environmental flows have been assumed to be an acceptable surrogate for the protection of indigenous interests. This paper argues that the need to adapt flow assessments to account for linkages and dependencies between people and rivers is equally applicable to developed world indigenous contexts such as Australia as it is to developing countries where there has been some attempt to address indigenous or subsistence water requirements. We propose three challenges to conventional environmental flow assessments that, if met, will improve the ability of water resource planning to address indigenous interests. The first challenge is to recognize that in an indigenous context a different suite of species may be considered important when compared to those valued by other stakeholders. Although conservation status or rarity may be important, it is common and widespread species that make substantial contributions to indigenous household incomes through customary use. The second challenge is to accommodate a different set of management objectives in environmental flow allocation. Environmental flows will need to meet the requirement of hunting and fishing activities at rates that are socially and economically sustainable. The third and arguably most theoretically challenging task is for environmental flow assessments to take into account indigenous worldviews and the quality of peopleplace relationships that are significant in indigenous cultures. Meeting these three challenges to environmental flow assessment will assist water management agencies and other practitioners to protect indigenous interests as water allocation decisions are made.
25053849|Ecosystem tracer-level additions would benefit from a stable isotope-labeled source of complex organic molecules. We tested a method to label tree C with
3658625| Biomass accumulation in the secondary forests of abandoned pastures and slash-and-burn agricultural fallows is an important but poorly constrained component of the regional carbon budget for the Brazilian Amazon. Using empirical relationships derived from a global analysis, we predicted potential aboveground biomass accumulation (ABA) for the region's regrowth forests based on soil texture and climate data. For regrowth forests on nonsandy soils, the globally derived relationship provided a nearly unbiased linear predictor of Amazonian validation data consisting of 66 stands at seven sites; there was no significant difference between stands that regrew following use as pasture land and those that regrew following slash-and-burn agriculture. For regrowth forests on nonsandy soil, the 1 sigma error range of our ABA model was 58%-171% for the Amazonian validation data. For regrowth forests on sandy soils, the validation data were limited to 19 stands at one site, and the globally derived relationship was substantially biased multiplicatively and nonlinearly. Hence we developed a regional refinement by adding to our validation data ABA values from the two Amazonian sites with sandy soil that had previously been included in the global analysis. Based on a conservative jackknife goodness-of-fit assessment (leaving out one site at a time), we calculated a 1 sigma error range of 42%-158% for our sandy soil Amazonian regrowth forest ABA model. We present our predictions of potential regrowth forest ABA as a set of 0.5 resolution maps for the region at 5, 10, and 20 years following abandonment. 
25053862|Commonly observed positive correlations between litter nitrogen (N) concentrations and decomposition rates suggest that N frequently limits decomposition in its early stages. However, numerous studies have found little, if any, effect of N fertilization on decomposition. I directly compared internal substrate N and externally supplied inorganic N effects on decomposition in sites varying in soil N availability. I decomposed eight substrates (with initial %N from 0-2.5) in control and N-fertilized plots at eight grassland and forest sites in central Minnesota. N fertilization increased decomposition at only two of eight sites, even though decomposition was positively related to litter N at all sites and to soil N availability across sites. The effect of externally supplied N on decomposition was independent of litter N concentration, but was greater at sites with low N availability. The inconsistent effects of substrate and externally supplied N may have arisen because decomposers use organic N preferentially as an N source; because inorganic N availability across sites or with fertilization induced changes in microbial community attributes (for example, lower C:N or greater efficiency) that reduced the response of decomposition to increased inorganic N supply; or because the positive correlation between litter N or site N availability with decomposition was spurious, caused by tight correlations between litter or site N and some other factor that truly limited decomposition. These inconsistent effects of substrate N and external N supply on decomposition suggest that the oft-observed relationship between litter N and decomposition may not indicate N limitation of decomposition.
41505867|Ecosystem-level studies identify plant-soil feedbacks as important controls on soil nutrient availability, particularly for nitrogen and phosphorus. Although site- and species-specific studies of tree species-soil relationships are relatively common, comparatively fewer studies consider multiple coexisting species in old-growth forests across a range of sites that vary in underlying soil fertility. We characterized patterns in forest floor and mineral soil nutrients associated with four common tree species across eight undisturbed old-growth forests in Oregon, USA, and used two complementary conceptual models to assess tree species-soil relationships. Plant-soil feedbacks that could reinforce site-level differences in nutrient availability were assessed using the context-dependent relationships model, whereby relative species-based differences in each soil nutrient diverged or converged as nutrient status changed across sites. Tree species-soil relationships that did not reflect strong feedbacks were evaluated using a site-independent relationships model, whereby forest floor and surface mineral soil nutrient pools differed consistently by tree species across sites, without variation in deeper mineral soils. We found that the organically cycled elements carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus exhibited contextdependent differences among species in both forest floor and mineral soil, and most often followed a divergence model, whereby species differences were greatest at high-nutrient sites. These patterns are consistent with theory emphasizing biotic control of these elements through plant-soil feedback mechanisms. Site-independent species differences were strongest for pools of the weatherable cations calcium, magnesium, potassium, as well as phosphorus, in mineral soils. Site-independent species differences in forest floor nutrients were attributable to one species that displayed significantly greater forest floor mass accumulation. Our findings confirm that site-independent and context-dependent tree species-soil relationships occur simultaneously in old-growth temperate forests, with contextdependent relationships strongest for organically cycled elements, and site-independent relationships strongest for weatherable elements with inorganic cycling phases. These models provide complementary explanations for patterns of nutrient accumulation and cycling in mixed-species old-growth temperate forests.
3658693| Transferring fine-scale ecological knowledge into an understanding of earth system processes presents a considerable challenge to ecologists. Our objective here was to identify and quantify heterogeneity of, and relationships among, vegetation and soil properties in terra firme rain forest ecosystems in eastern Amazonia and assess implications for generating regional predictions of carbon (C) exchange. Some of these properties showed considerable variation among sites; soil textures varied from 11% to 92% clay. But we did not find any significant correlations between soil characteristics (percentage clay, nitrogen [N], C, organic matter) and vegetation characteristics (leaf area index [LAI], foliar N concentration, basal area, biomass, stem density). We found some evidence for increased drought stress on the sandier sites: There was a significant correlation between soil texture and wood 
3658605| The direct and indirect effects of increasing levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
3658872|We investigated the effect of habitat loss on the ability of trees to shift in distribution across a landscape dominated by agriculture. The potential distribution shifts of four tree species (Diospyros virginiana, Oxydendron arboreum, Pinus virginiana, Quercus falcata var. falcata) whose northern distribution limits fall in the southern third of Ohio were used to assess possible distribution shift scenarios as a result of global warming. Our predictions derive from the results of simulations using (a) forest inventory based estimates of current distribution and abundance of target species; (b) a satellite-based estimate of forest habitat availability; and (c) a tree migration model (SHIFT). The current distribution and abundance of trees was estimated using USDA Forest Service's Forest Inventory Analysis data and distribution maps from the late 1960s; pre-European settlement forest-nonforest maps were used to represent the fully forested condition for calibration and comparison. Habitat-availability estimates in Ohio were estimated using classified Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) data from 1994. Tree abundance, forest availability and migration were modeled using a
40792955|Changing snow conditions have strong effects on northern ecosystems, but these effects are rarely incorporated into ecosystem models and our perception of how the ecosystems will respond to a warmer climate. We investigated the relationships between snow cover, plant phenology, level of invertebrate herbivory and leaf chemical traits in Betula nana in four different habitats located along a natural snow cover gradient. To separate the effect of snow per se from other differences, we manipulated the snow cover with snow fences in three habitats. The experimentally prolonged snow cover delayed plant phenology, but not as much as expected based on the pattern along the natural gradient. The positive effect of the snow treatment on plant nitrogen concentration was also weaker than expected, because plant nitrogen concentration closely followed plant phenology. The level of herbivory by leaf-chewing invertebrates increased in response to an increased snow cover, at least at the end of the growing season. The concentration of phenolic substances varied among habitats, treatments and sampling occasions, indicating that B. nana shrubs were able to retain a mosaic of secondary chemical quality despite altered snow conditions. This study shows that the effect of the snow cover period on leaf nitrogen concentration and level of herbivory can be predicted based on differences between habitats, whereas the effect of a changed plant phenology on plant nitrogen concentration is better explained by temporal trends within habitats. These results have important implications for how northern ecosystems should respond to future climate changes.
23501440|Knowledge of vulnerability provides the foundation for developing actions that minimize impacts and supports system views that are particularly desirable. We modified a well-established model to assess and describe the vulnerability of the two major industries dependent on the Great Barrier Reef (GBR) to extreme weather events. The modification entailed distinguishing between the properties that determine exposure, sensitivity, and adaptive capacity for both the ecological and the social components of a natural resource system. We surveyed 145 commercial fishers and 62 tourism operators following a severe tropical cyclone and a major flooding event that extensively affected the region in 2011. Exposure of these industries included direct risk to life and infrastructure and indirect risk from loss of important ecosystem services. Our study found that many commercial fishers and marine-based tourism operators were sensitive to changes in the GBR's condition and limited in their adaptive capacity. However, those with smaller businesses, higher levels of occupational identity, place attachment, formal networks, and strategic approaches also had higher levels of adaptive capacity. These results suggest that resource users with higher sensitivity to change are not necessarily the most vulnerable; sensitivity may be offset by adaptive capacity. That is, while exposure and sensitivity determine the potential impact of a climate-induced change, adaptive capacity may be a major influence on the impacts that eventuate. We empirically show that adaptive capacity is an obvious focus for climate adaptation planning.
23501504|Natural peatlands are known as an important source of methane (CH 4 ). However, most peatlands in Central Europe were drained for forestry purposes in the past and some of them have been recently restored, both having a strong impact on CH 4 emissions. The main aim of our study was to determine the effect of long-term drainage (a few decades) and hydrological restoration (3 years) on CH 4 emissions, potential CH 4 production and on the methanogenic Archaea community in different types of peatlands under various hydrological regimes. For this purpose, CH 4 emissions together with biotic and abiotic variables were measured over three growing seasons, in vitro potential CH 4 production was determined, and qPCR and DGGE fingerprinting were used for methanogenic community description in three ombrotrophic bogs (pristine, drained, restored) and two fens (pristine, drained) located in the umava National Park within the Bohemian Forest, Czech Republic. The highest CH 4 emissions, CH 4 potential production, and the highest diversity of the methanogenic community were observed in the pristine fen and bog. In the frame of interannual variability, a drought period seemed to play an important role in seasonal CH 4 fluxes. Plant species composition together with water table seemed to be the most important factors controlling CH 4 emission. Drainage led to a significant decrease in CH 4 emissions, potential CH 4 production, and the abundance and diversity of methanogens as compared to pristine sites. These post-drainage changes were more obvious in the fen site than on bog sites. However, none of the measured parameters showed significant changes during the 3 years after rewetting. We assume that the restored hydrology was not the main factor controlling CH 4 emissions and other factors such as vegetation composition and input of available substrate for methanogenic community were more important. Therefore it appears that the period necessary for regeneration of CH 4 emissions is the result of restoring all of these elementary factors together.
3659053|The field of resource management integrates human and ecological systems. It is currently undergoing a difficult transition as it broadens to accommodate new values and interests. Some of the problems associated with this transition are evident in marine ecosystems, where the management of the ecological-human interface has been hindered by a lack of basic understanding. Using marine fisheries as examples, this paper describes the proximate and underlying causes of the human-ecological problem. It identifies areas in which basic research is needed on the behavioral dynamics of marine resource use, including incentives, feedbacks, management scale, monitoring and evaluation, alternative management approaches, the role of history, and human capital. It discusses the cost of failing to invest in social science research and identifies barriers to interdisciplinary research. Priorities for interdisciplinary research are listed.
27823667|Because freshwater covers such a small fraction of the Earth's surface area, inland freshwater ecosystems (particularly lakes, rivers, and reservoirs) have rarely been considered as potentially important quantitative components of the carbon cycle at either global or regional scales. By taking published estimates of gas exchange, sediment accumulation, and carbon transport for a variety of aquatic systems, we have constructed a budget for the role of inland water ecosystems in the global carbon cycle. Our analysis conservatively estimates that inland waters annually receive, from a combination of background and anthropogenically altered sources, on the order of 1.9 Pg C y1 from the terrestrial landscape, of which about 0.2 is buried in aquatic sediments, at least 0.8 (possibly much more) is returned to the atmosphere as gas exchange while the remaining 0.9 Pg y1 is delivered to the oceans, roughly equally as inorganic and organic carbon. Thus, roughly twice as much C enters inland aquatic systems from land as is exported from land to the sea. Over prolonged time net carbon fluxes in aquatic systems tend to be greater per unit area than in much of the surrounding land. Although their area is small, these freshwater aquatic systems can affect regional C balances. Further, the inclusion of inland, freshwater ecosystems provides useful insight about the storage, oxidation and transport of terrestrial C, and may warrant a revision of how the modern net C sink on land is described.
3658944|In semiarid environments, surface soil properties play a major role in ecosystem dynamics through their influence on processes such as runoff, infiltration, seed germination, and seedling establishment. Surface soil properties usually show a high degree of spatial heterogeneity in semiarid areas, but direct tests to evaluate the consequences of this heterogeneity on seedling establishment are limited. Using a combination of spatial analysis by distance indices (SADIE) and principal components analysis (PCA), we quantified the spatiotemporal patterns of seedling survival of a Mediterranean native shrub (Pistacia lentiscus) during the first 3 years after planting on a semiarid degraded site in southeastern Spain. We used a variation partitioning method to identify environmental variables associated with seedling survival patterns. Three years after planting, only 36% of the seedlings survived. During the first summer, one-third of the seedlings died, with secondary major mortality in the 3rd summer after planting. The spatial pattern of survival became strongly clumped by the end of the first summer, with clearly defined patches (areas of high survival) and gaps (areas of low survival). The intensity of this pattern increased after subsequent high-mortality periods. Of the 14 environmental variables evaluated, the ones most strongly coupled to seedling survival were bare soil cover, sand content, and soil compaction. These findings contribute to our understanding of the linkages between the spatial heterogeneity of abiotic factors and the response of plant populations in semiarid degraded ecosystems and can be used to optimize restoration practices in these areas.
40603665|Community metabolism and dissolved organic and inorganic nutrient fluxes were assessed in impacted from fish farm discharges and reference vegetated (Posidonia oceanica) and adjacent unvegetated communities in the Aegean Sea, Greece. Both metabolism and nutrient fluxes significantly differed between impacted and reference communities, but the effect depended on community type and time of year. Net community production (NCP) in the impacted vegetated community decreased by 60%, respiration (R) by 34%, and gross primary production (GPP) by 44%. The GPP: R ratio declined more (35%) in the impacted unvegetated than in the corresponding vegetated community (15%), implying that proximity to the fish farm has a severe impact on the unvegetated community, leading to imbalanced metabolism (GPP < R) and heterotrophic (GPP: R = 0.9) conditions. Higher release of dissolved organic and inorganic carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorous was observed in the impacted vegetated community compared to the corresponding unvegetated one, implying intensification of mineralization in the seagrass community. On an annual scale, the impacted vegetated community supported increased DOC efflux by 204%, DON by 1639%, NH by 122%, and NO by 26%, whereas it supported release of DOP and P0 compared to the reference community, which removed these dissolved nutrients from the water column. The impacted unvegetated community supported an annual increase of DOC efflux by 208% and P0 by 42% and it released DON, NH , NO, and DOP, whereas the reference community took up these nutrients. Proximity to the fish farm altered the ecosystem state by lowering the productivity and by enhancing the nutrient release.
40603643|Growing evidence suggests that plant communities in the Low Arctic are responding to recent increases in air temperature. Changes to vegetation, particularly shifts in the abundance of upright shrubs, can influence surface energy balance (albedo), sensible and latent heat flux (evapotranspiration), snow conditions, and the ground thermal regime. Understanding fine-scale variability in vegetation across the shrub tundra ecotone is therefore essential as a monitoring baseline. In this article, we use object-based classifications of airphotos to examine changes in vegetation characteristics (cover and patch size) across a latitudinal gradient in the Mackenzie Delta uplands. This area is frequently mapped as homogenous vegetation, but it exhibits fine-scale variability in cover and patch size. Our results show that the total area and size of individual patches of shrub tundra decrease with increasing latitude. The gradual nature of this transition and its correlation with latitudinal variation in temperature suggests that the position of the shrub ecotone will be sensitive to continued warming. The impacts of vegetation structure on ecological processes make improved understanding of this heterogeneity critical to biophysical models of Low Arctic ecosystems.
40603618|Quantifying vegetation structure and function is critical for modeling ecological processes, and an emerging challenge is to apply models at multiple spatial scales. Land surface heterogeneity is commonly characterized using rectangular pixels, whose length scale reflects that of remote sensing measurements or ecological models rather than the spatial scales at which vegetation structure and function varies. We investigated the ' optimum' pixel size and shape for averaging leaf area index (LAI) measurements in relatively large (85 m estimates on a 600 x 600-m grid) and small (0.04 m measurements on a 40 x 40-m grid) patches of sub-Arctic tundra near Abisko, Sweden. We define the optimum spatial averaging operator as that which preserves the information content (IC) of measured LAI, as quantified by the normalized Shannon entropy (E S,n ) and Kullback-Leibler divergence (D KL ), with the minimum number of pixels. Based on our criterion, networks of Voronoi polygons created from triangulated irregular networks conditioned on hydrologie and topographic indices are often superior to rectangular shapes for averaging LAI at some, frequently larger, spatial scales. In order to demonstrate the importance of information preservation when upscaling, we apply a simple, validated ecosystem carbon flux model at the landscape level before and after spatial averaging of land surface characteristics. Aggregation errors are minimal due to the approximately linear relationship between flux and LAI, but large errors of approximately 45% accrue if the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) is averaged without preserving IC before conversion to LAI due to the nonlinear NDVI-LAI transfer function.
23501494|Biological soil crusts (BSCs) cover non-vegetated areas in most arid and semiarid ecosystems. BSCs play a crucial role in the redistribution of water and sediments and, ultimately, in the maintenance of ecosystem function. The effects of BSCs on water infiltration are complex. BSCs increase porosity and micro-topography, thus enhancing infiltration, but, at the same time, they can increase runoff by the secretion of hydrophobic compounds and clogging of soil pores upon wetting. BSCs confer stability on soil surfaces, reducing soil detachment locally; however, they can also increase runoff, which may increase sediment yield. Although the key role of BSCs in controlling infiltrationrunoff and erosion is commonly accepted, conflicting evidence has been reported concerning the influence of BSCs on runoff generation. Very little is known about the relative importance of different BSC features such as cover, composition, roughness, or water repellency, and the interactions of these attributes in runoff and erosion. Because BSC characteristics can affect water flows and erosion both directly and indirectly, we examined the direct and indirect effects of different BSC features on runoff and erosion in a semiarid ecosystem under conditions of natural rainfall. We built structural equation models to determine the relative importance of BSC cover and type and their derived surface attributes controlling runoff and soil erosion. Our results show that the hydrological response of BSCs varies depending on rainfall properties, which, in turn, determine the process governing overland flow generation. During intense rainfalls, runoff is controlled not only by rainfall intensity but also by BSC cover, which exerts a strong direct and indirect influence on infiltration and surface hydrophobicity. Surface hydrophobicity was especially high for lichen BSCs, thus masking the positive effect of lichen crust on infiltration, and explaining the lower infiltration rates recorded on lichen than on cyanobacterial BSCs. Under low intensity, rainfall volume exerts a stronger effect than rainfall intensity, and BSC features play a secondary role in runoff generation, reducing runoff through their effect on surface micro-topography. Under these conditions, lichen BSCs presented higher infiltration rates than cyanobacterial BSCs. Our results highlight the significant protective effect against erosion exerted by BSCs at the plot scale, enhancing surface stability and reducing sediment yield in both high- and low-magnitude rainfall events.
3658708|A whole-lake manipulation of food-web structure (introduction of a top predator, northern pike, to a minnow-dominated lake) was performed in a Canadian Shield lake (L110) to examine the stoichiometric consequences of changes in planktonic community structure generated by altered food-web structure. Minnow abundance, zooplankton biomass and community composition, microconsumer abundance, and concentration and carbon-phosphorus (C:P) ratio of suspended particulate matter were monitored in L110 and unmanipulated L240 before (1992) and after (1993-95) pike introduction. Algal biomass in L110 determined from microscopic examination for postmanipulation and premanipulation periods was also compared with dynamics in a suite of unmanipulated reference lakes from longterm monitoring records. Pike were added in spring in 1993 and 1994 in sufficient quantity to raise pike biomass to levels of around
25622867|There is still a poor understanding of how changes in the organic composition of litter contribute to slowing or even cessation of decomposition. Using C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy of samples from the Canadian Intersite Decomposition Experiment (CIDET), we asked whether increasing lignin per se could account for the well-known increase in acid-unhydrolyzable residue (AUR), and secondly, using three litters from four sites with different mean annual temperatures, whether changes in organic composition would follow similar trajectories with C mass loss. At 6 years, there was 16-39% C remaining for 10 foliar litters and wood blocks at a site with rapid initial decomposition, and higher amounts remaining for three species at three colder sites. C NMR spectra obtained with rapid cross-polarization (CP) mainly showed increasing similarity among the foliar litters, although wood showed little change in composition. Foliage generally showed loss of O- and di-O-alkyl C, mainly from carbohydrate, and increase in alkyl, aromatic, phenolic and carboxyl C. However, O-alkyl C loss was limited, especially for litters with slow initial decomposition, and many litters showed relatively small changes in intensity distribution. Quantitative C ("BD") spectra showed similar trends, but even smaller changes in C composition, and 6-year CP difference spectra showed that C was lost across the whole range of structures. Changes in C were small and variable, but could be correlated to some extent with loss of carbohydrates versus tannins. Lignin was not selectively preserved, and the increase of resistant structures derived from lignin, tannins, and cutin collectively accounts for increasing AUR. Compositional changes of NMR C fractions across sites with different temperatures were small and inconsistent, likely due to the influence of other site factors; however, changes in their contents did largely follow consistent trajectories with %C remaining.
25053884|Urbanization can potentially alter watershed nitrogen (N) retention via combined changes in N loading, water runoff, and N processing potential. We examined N export and retention for two headwater catchments (4
3659004| High rates of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon have the potential to alter the storage and cycling of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) across this region. To investigate the impacts of deforestation, we quantified total aboveground biomass (TAGB), aboveground and soil pools of C and N, and soil N availability along a land-use gradient in Rondnia, Brazil, that included standing primary forest, slashed primary and secondary forest, shifting cultivation, and pasture sites. TAGB decreased substantially with increasing land use, ranging from 311 and
41505987|Human-induced climate change is expected to increase both the frequency and severity of extreme climate events, but their ecological impacts on root dynamics are poorly understood. We conducted a 1 - year pulse warming and precipitation experiment in a tallgrass prairie in Oklahoma, USA to examine responses of root dynamics. We collected data in the pre-treatment year of 2002, imposed four treatments (control, 4C warming, doubled precipitation, and warming plus doubled precipitation) in 2003, and observed post-treatment effects in 2004. Root biomass dynamics (for example, root growth and death) were measured using sequential coring and ingrowth coring methods. Treatment effects were not significant on standing root biomass in 2003, although root growth rate was significantly higher in the warmed than control plots. However, in the post-treatment year, the warmed plots had significantly lower standing root biomass than the controls, likely resulting from increased root death rate. Root death rate was significantly lower in the doubled precipitation and warmed plus doubled precipitation plots than that in the warmed plots in 2004. The root: shoot ratio showed similar responses to the post-treatments as standing root biomass, whereas aboveground biomass changed relatively little, indicating that roots were more sensitive to lagged effects than aboveground biomass. Our results demonstrate that root growth and death rates are highly sensitive to extreme climate events and lagged effects of extreme climate on root dynamics are important in assessing terrestrial carbon-cycle feedbacks to climate change.
40296376|Long-term trends including depopulation and shifts in agricultural policies and management have led to large-scale land-use changes throughout the European Alps which are likely to affect the size of carbon (C) stocks of the respective land-use types. This article analyzes landscape-scale changes of C-stocks present in the vegetation in relation to historical land use (1865), current land use (2003), and three contrasting scenarios of future land use (2020) in the Stubai Valley, Austria. Results show that more than 47% of the total valley area and more than 90% of the usable agricultural area have undergone a change in land use during the last approximately 140 years. Changes of land use were seen to peak between 1954 and 1973 and slow down there after. Phytomass and C-stocks in 1865 amounted to 63.1 Mg ha and 30.8 Mg C ha , and increased until 2003 to 75.8 Mg ha and 37.2 Mg C ha, respectively. Evaluations along an altitudinal gradient indicate the highest C gain to be in the sub-Alpine belt (more than doubling of the C-stock) due to the abandonment of pastures and hay meadows. All future scenarios project only a minor increase in phytomass (0.3-2.8 Mg ha) and C-stocks (0.2-1.4 Mg C ha) because major elements of the landscape (forests, rocks, screes) will be either largely unaffected or are unimportant in their spatial extent (built environment).
40296366|We estimated carbon pools and emissions from deforestation in northern Argentine forests between 1900 and 2005, based on forest inventories, deforestation estimates from satellite images and historical data on forests and agriculture. Carbon fluxes were calculated using a book-keeping model. We ran 1000 simulations for a 105-year period with different combinations of values of carbon stocks (Mg C ha1 ), soil carbon in the top 0.2 m, and annual deforestation series. The 1000 combinations of parameters were performed as a sensitivity analysis that for each run, randomly selected the values of each variable within a predefined range of values and probability distributions. Using the simulation outputs, we calculated the accumulated C emissions due to deforestation from 1900 to 2005 and the annual emission as the average of the 1000 simulations, and uncertainties of our estimates as the standard deviation. We found that northern Argentine forests contain an estimated 4.54 Pg C (2.312 Pg C in biomass and 2.233 Pg C in soil). Between 1900 and 2005 approximately 30% of the forests were deforested, yielding carbon emissions of 0.945 (SD = 0.270) Pg C. Estimated average annual carbon emissions between 1996 and 2005, mostly from deforestation of the Chaco dry forests, were 20,875 (SD = 6,156) Gg C y 1 (1 Gg = 10  Pg). These values represent the largest source of carbon from land-cover change in the extra-tropical southern hemisphere, between 0.9 and 2.7% of the global carbon emissions from deforestation, and approximately 10% of carbon emissions from the Brazilian Amazon. Deforestation, which has accelerated during the last decades as a result of modern agriculture expansion, represents a major national source of greenhouse gases and the second emission source, after fossil fuel consumption by fixed sources. We conclude that Argentine forests are an important carbon pool and emission source that need more attention for accurate global estimates, and seasonally dry forest deforestation is a key component of the Argentine carbon cycle.
3658765|Phenology of organismal development varies between growing seasons according to the weather and also varies within growing seasons across topoclimatic gradients. Combining these factors is necessary to predict landscape-level patterns of phenology and their consequences for population dynamics. We developed a model on a Geographic Information System (GIS) that predicts phenology of adult emergence of the threatened Bay checkerspot butterfly across complex terrain under variable weather. Physiological time was modeled by accumulated slope-specific direct insolation. Insolation sums through growing seasons were calculated for each cell of a digital terrain model (skipping over cloudy days) until a threshold for adult emergence was reached. Emergence times of adult butterflies for a given year were then mapped out across a 100-ha area. To generate predicted emergence curves for the population in a given year, these maps of emergence times were then modified by incorporating microdistributions of postdiapause larvae. Different larval microdistributions changed both the magnitude and shape of emergence curves under the same yearly weather and could change mean population-wide emergence dates by 11 days. Reproductive success in this butterfly is strongly dependent on the timing of adult emergence, and these models provide insights into the effects of weather, topography, and population history on population dynamics. Because adult emergence phenology is often a key component of reproductive success for insects, understanding the components of phenological variation in space and time in complex terrain may provide insights into population dynamics for management of pests and conservation of rare species.
3658776|Nitrogen (N) was added for 35 days in the form of
3658879| We examined the changes in four intertidal macroalgal assemblages sampled at 3-month intervals during and after the 1997-98 El Nio. The assemblages were analyzed using several numerical analyses (specific richness, H diversity) and multivariate techniques (ANOSIM, cluster, and MDS analyses). During El Nio 1997-98, the water temperature in the sampled zone was almost 5C above the long-term mean. The apparent impact of this factor was greatest in winter-spring 1998. Our results suggest that El Nio influenced the structure of these assemblages in four different ways: (a) El Nio was associated with number of species (lowest in 1998) and H diversity, which increased in the winter of 1999, when the El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) was inactive, from 1.2 to 2.3. (b) The average biomass of the macroalgae was significantly greater in the ENSO year (139 g dry
40296264|In our previous article (Odion and Hanson, Ecosystems 9: 117789, 2006), we reported that fire severity in the conifer forests of the Sierra Nevada mountains of California, contrary to prevailing assumptions, did not burn with predominately stand-replacing, high severity fire. The reply by Safford and others (Ecosystems, this issue) using a new mapping approach also found this pattern. Their methods identify more high severity fire; however, as we illustrate here, this may be attributed to the different mapping approaches used. We previously also found that condition class based upon fire return interval departure (FRID) was not an effective predictor of fire severity. Safford and others (this issue) concluded that there was a strong correlation between FRID-based condition class and fire severity based upon data from the McNally fire of 2002. The difference between these findings about McNally fire reflects the fact that they combined FRID categories whereas we kept the categories separate. Here, using their fire severity data to evaluate all three fires, we found that severity was not predicted by FRID. Developing a consensus definition of fire severity within the scientific community might help alleviate future contradictions regarding fire effects.
23325680|It has been assumed that plant biomass partitioning to stems and roots at the ecosystem level follows a single strategy according to which the stem biomass scales isometrically with root biomass, a hypothesis known as 'isometric scaling'. In this study, we examined an alternative theory used for plants: plant biomass is allocated preferentially to the plant organ that harvests the limiting growth resource, a theory known as the 'balanced growth hypothesis'. Our objective was to test these two alternative hypotheses across a water availability gradient. We quantified the stem and root biomass in a seasonally dry tropical forest (SDTF) in three regions of the Yucatn peninsula along a precipitation gradient. Reduced major axis analysis showed that the slopes of the relationship between stem and root biomass across the study regions were statistically similar and significantly different from 1.0 (common slope = 2.5), which contrasts with the 'isometric scaling' hypothesis. The allometric coefficient was different between regions along the precipitation gradient, which showed that plant biomass allocation to stems is higher in high than in low water availability regions where biomass is allocated in greater proportions to roots. The stem:root ratio increases following the low to high water availability gradient. Our results showed that plant biomass allocation in the SDTF follows a simple allometric strategy in which greater plant biomass is allocated to stems irrespective of water availability, suggesting to the forest level that plant biomass allocation strategy is invariant across the water availability gradient.
3658991|Increased radiative forcing is an inevitable part of global climate change, yet little is known of its potential effects on the energy fluxes in natural ecosystems. To simulate the conditions of global warming, we exposed peat monoliths (depth, 0.6 m; surface area, 2.1 m
3659034|Flowing waters receive nitrogen (N) from the surrounding watershed and ultimately export much of this N to coastal waters, which in turn can be substantially affected by these inputs. Although the control of N export is complex, for large rivers among-system variation is predicted relatively well by simple models of human activity. Using data from 249 predominantly North Temperate watersheds that varied in size from 0.1 to over
25470349|Long-term prescribed fires have increased woody canopy openness and reduced nitrogen (N) cycling (that is, net N mineralization) in an oak savanna in Minnesota, USA. It is unclear how fire-induced shifts from oak-dominated to C4 grass-dominated vegetation contribute to this decline in N cycling compared to direct effects of increasing fire frequency promoting greater N losses. We determined (1) the magnitude of decline in net N mineralization in oak versus grass-dominated patches with increasing fire frequency and (2) if differences in net N mineralization between oak and grass patches in frequently burned oak savanna (burned 8 out of 10 years on average during the last 40 years) could be attributed to differences in N losses through volatilization and leaching or to plant traits affecting decomposition and mineralization. In situ net N mineralization declined with increasing fire frequency overall, but this decline was less in oak-than in grass-dominated patches, with oak-dominated patches having more than two times higher net N mineralization than grass-dominated patches. Greater net N mineralization in oak-dominated patches occurred despite greater N losses through volatilization and leaching (on average 1.8 and 1.4 g m y for oak- and grass-dominated patches, respectively), likely because of higher plant litter N concentration in the oak-dominated patches. As total soil N pools in the first 15 cm did not differ between oak- and grass-dominated patches (on average 83 g N m), N inputs from atmospheric deposition and uptake from deep soil layers may offset higher N losses. Our results further show that net N mineralization rates decline within 5 years after tree death and subsequent colonization by C4 grasses to levels observed in grass-dominated patches. Although long-term prescribed fires often directly reduce N stocks and cycling because of increased N losses, this study has shown that fire-induced shifts in vegetation composition can strongly contribute to the declines in N cycling in systems that are frequently disturbed by fires with potential feedbacks to plant productivity.
23501505|Invasive plants can have different effects on ecosystem functioning and on the provision of ecosystem services, with the direction and magnitude of such effects depending on the service and ecosystem being considered, but also on the life strategies of the invaders. Strategies can influence invasiveness, but also key processes of host ecosystems. To address the combined effects of these various factors, we developed a methodological framework to identify areas of possible conflict between ecosystem services and alien invasive plants, considering interactions between landscape invasibility and species invasiveness. Our framework combines multi-model inference, efficient techniques to map ecosystem services, and life strategies. The latter provides a functional link between invasion, functional changes, and potential provision of services by invaded ecosystems. The framework was applied to a region in Portugal, for which we could successfully predict current patterns of plant invasion, of ecosystem service provision, and of potential conflict between alien species richness and the potential provision of selected services. Potential conflicts were identified for all combinations of plant strategy and ecosystem service, with an emphasis on carbon sequestration, water regulation, and wood production. Lower levels of conflict were obtained between invasive plant strategies and the habitat for biodiversity supporting service. The value of the proposed framework for landscape management and planning is discussed with emphasis on anticipation of conflicts, mitigation of negative impacts, and facilitation of positive effects of plant invasions on ecosystems and their services.
23501446|Invasive species can alter the structure and functioning of ecosystems and affect the quality of the services they provide. Effects on biodiversity are well documented, but less is known about their impacts on ecosystem functioning and how these change as their populations increase. Invasive oysters, Crassostrea gigas, were added at increasing abundances to two different estuarine habitats (mussel-beds and mud-flats) and biotic and functional changes were assessed after 15 months. Sedimentwater fluxes and benthic turnover rates of ammonium were greatest at medium cover of C. gigas in both habitats, but for silicate they increased with increasing cover of oysters in mud-flats but, by contrast, decreased at the highest cover of oysters in mussel-beds. Community respiration increased with the greatest cover of oysters in both habitats. Biodiversity was increased by C. gigas in mud-flats, but decreased with the greatest cover of oysters in mussel-beds. Assemblage structure differed between habitats and among different covers of oysters and 33% of the total variation in assemblage structure correlated with the variation in nutrient fluxes and concentrations, suggesting possible direct or indirect effects of C. gigas on the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. C. gigas can alter biodiversity and benthic turnover rates of important limiting nutrients, and may therefore affect provision of ecosystem services. Predicting the effects of invasive species requires knowledge of how their influence varies with abundance and among receiving environments.
3658746|Invasions by exotic forbs are changing large areas of North American grasslands, but their biogeochemical impacts are not well characterized. Additionally, although many invasive plants may alter biogeochemistry, an invasive species' effects have rarely been evaluated across physically diverse sites. We sampled nine sites containing the perennial Eurasian forb Centaurea maculosa to determine if this invasive species alters soil C and N pools in native grasslands in Montana, USA. We sampled surface soil in adjacent microsites with C. maculosa and native grasses and analyzed soil C and N pools with slow to rapid turnover. None of the pools evaluated in the laboratory showed significant differences between C. maculosa and grass microsites when analyzed across all sites. Some differences were found at individual sites, but they were infrequent and inconsistent: Four sites had no differences, four had differences in one or two pools with intermediate (particulate organic matter C or N) or rapid turnover rates (potentially mineralizable N), and just one site had differences encompassing pools with rapid, intermediate, and slow (total C and N, silt-and-clay-associated N) turnover rates. Where they differed, pools were usually smaller under C. maculosa plants than under native grasses, but the opposite was found at one site. In situ N availability, estimated using ion exchange resins, was significantly lower under C. maculosa than under grasses at one of three sites sampled. Results indicate that C. maculosa may sometimes reduce soil C and N pools, including those related to N availability, but they argue against generalizing about the impacts of C. maculosa in grasslands.
41413040|Disease ecology has made important steps in describing how epidemiological processes control the impact of pathogens on populations and communities but fewer field or theoretical studies address disease effects at the ecosystem level. We demonstrate that the same epidemiological mechanisms drive disease intensity and coarse woody debris (CWD) dynamics in natural forest ecosystems impacted by an emerging disease. Sudden oak death (causal agent, Phytophthora ramorum) has caused mortality of tanoak (Notholithocarpus densiflorus) on a spatial scale and rate comparable to other major North American forest diseases caused by invasive pathogens. In pathogen invaded stands, mean CWD masses were 22.4 Mg ha of standing dead tanoak (snags) and 11.5 Mg ha in logs compared to 0.27 and 1.16 Mg ha of snags and logs in an uninvaded stand. Within invaded stands variation in CWD mass and accumulation rates were largely driven by the distribution of pre-disease tanoak biomass and the densities of infected tanoak and California bay laurel (Umbellularia californica) which jointly determine P. ramorum sporulation and disease emergence rates. In a narrow range of community and host characteristics sudden oak death can result in woody debris dynamics similar to discrete disturbances such as fire and forest harvest but it is more common to have lower maximum amounts with slower rates of accumulation than these better studied disturbances. Our results indicate that models of CWD dynamics need to integrate epidemiological processes to predict realistic ecosystem impacts and lead to management applications for forest pathogens.
3658867|In 1981, we began to monitor the stream flow and chemistry of 13 first-order basins at the Turkey Lakes Watershed, with the objective of measuring the response of an undisturbed forested ecosystem to acid deposition. There was no trend in total annual precipitation received by the watershed, but the average annual water yield (percentage of annual precipitation) declined over the observation period. The proportion of runoff occurring in different seasons also changed, decreasing in the winter and increasing in the spring. In most streams the concentration of
23328061|Nutrient nitrogen and water availability are co-limiting factors for grassland productivity in the Inner Mongolian steppe. The objective of this study was to evaluate the interactive effects of water and nitrogen (N) addition on soil abiotic factors and soil nematode community composition. A 3-year experiment with addition of water (with and without irrigation simulating wet year precipitation) and nitrogen (0, 25, and 50 kg N ha -1 ) was conducted at two sites in Inner Mongolia with histories of heavy grazing (HG) and moderate grazing (MG). The results showed that HG had several lower nematode ecological indicators; namely, the Simpson index (P < 0.01), maturity index (MI, including free-living nematodes), and plant parasite index (PPI, including plant-parasitic nematodes). In addition, HG had a lower proportion of omnivorespredators and higher proportion of bacterivores (P < 0.01), with reduced soil moisture, total nitrogen and total carbon (C), and increased C/N ratio. A relatively low addition of N did not influence soil total carbon and total nitrogen and had only a slight effect on the composition and structure of the soil nematode community. Water addition increased the proportion of plant parasites, reduced the proportion of bacterivores and omnivores-predators and increased the soil total carbon and total nitrogen. Redundancy analysis revealed that grazing history alone explained more variation in nematode taxon composition (17.4%, P < 0.01) and PPI (35.6%, P < 0.01) and MI (17.5%, P < 0.01) and Simpson index (10.5%, P < 0.01). Water addition explained more variation in the nematode feeding group (24.4%, P < 0.01), total nematodes (7.9%, P < 0.01) and PPI (78.7%, P < 0.01). Nitrogen addition explained variation in the nematode taxon composition (6.2%, P < 0.01). These results suggested that HG caused soil degradation, and water addition facilitated plant parasites and enhanced soil properties, whereas application of small amounts of nitrogen to N-limited semiarid grasslands did not induce clear changes in this system in the short term.
3658695|Leaching losses of nitrate from forests can have potentially serious consequences for soils and receiving waters. In this study, based on extensive sampling of forested watersheds in the Catskill Mountains of New York State, we examine the relationships among stream chemistry, the properties of the forest floor, and the tree species composition of watersheds. We report the first evidence from North America that nitrate export from forested watersheds is strongly influenced by the carbon:nitrogen (C:N) ratio of the watershed soils. We also show that variation in soil C:N ratio is associated with variation in tree species composition. This implies that N retention and release in forested watersheds is regulated at least in part by tree species composition and that changes in species composition caused by introduced pests, climate change, or forest management could affect the capacity of a forest ecosystem to retain atmospherically deposited N.
25470374|We investigated the influence of landscape-level variation in soil fertility and topographic position on leaf litter nutrient dynamics in a tropical rain forest in Costa Rica. We sampled across the three main edaphic conditions (ultisol slope, ultisol plateau, and inceptisol) to determine the effect of soil nutrients on leaf litter nutrient concentrations while controlling for topography, and to examine topographic effects while controlling for soil nutrients. Both leaf litter macronutrient [phosphorus (P), nitrogen (N), sulfur (S), calcium (Ca), potassium (K), magnesium (Mg)] and micronutrient concentrations were quantified throughout a 4-year period. Leaf litter [P], [N] and [K] varied significantly among soil types. The variation in [P], [N], and [K] was explained by soil fertility alone. Leaf litter [S], [Ca], and [Mg] did not vary among the three soil types. Macronutrient (P, K, Mg, S, Ca) concentrations in the leaf litter were much less variable than those of Fe and Al. Lower variability in essential plant nutrients suggests a great deal of plant control over the amount of nutrients resorbed before senescense. Leaf litter macronutrient concentrations varied significantly over the 4-year period, but the temporal variation did not differ among the three edaphic types as anticipated. Hence, although the magnitude of nutrient fluxes may be controlled by local factors such as soil fertility, temporal patterns are likely regulated by a common environmental variable such as precipitation or temperature.
43677523|Coarse woody debris (CWD, dead wood sections 10 cm diameter) represents a large store of carbon in tropical forests; however, estimates of the flux of carbon from CWD in these forests remain poorly constrained. The objective of this study was to resolve the dry/wet season response of respiration in CWD (Rcwd), and investigate the importance of biotic and abiotic factors for predicting the seasonal change of Rcwd at the ecosystem level. This study presents a 4-month time series of Rcwd measurements conducted on 42 dead trees (26 species) at the Paracou Research Station in French Guiana, Rcwd measurements were repeated 13 times on each CWD sample from July to November 2011, spanning the transition from wet to dry season, and then from dry season to the following wet season. Seasonal drought caused monthly Rcwd to drop by 20.5  5.1% over the wet-dry transition. Changes in woody tissue moisture content explained 41.9% of the measured seasonal variability in Rcwd, but 60% of the seasonal variability in mean forest Rcwd rates could be modelled using surface soil water content. We estimate that Rcwd is approximately 5% of annual ecosystem respiration (Reco) and that seasonal variations in Rcwd contribute appreciably to seasonal variations of Reco, and should be included in functional models simulating the response of tropical rainforest ecosystems to current and future climate.
25470329|The task of modeling the distribution of a large number of tree species under future climate scenarios presents unique challenges. First, the model must be robust enough to handle climate data outside the current range without producing unacceptable instability in the output. In addition, the technique should have automatic search mechanisms built in to select the most appropriate values for input model parameters for each species so that minimal effort is required when these parameters are fine-tuned for individual tree species. We evaluated four statistical models-Regression Tree Analysis (RTA), Bagging Trees (BT), Random Forests (RF), and Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS)-for predictive vegetation mapping under current and future climate scenarios according to the Canadian Climate Centre global circulation model. To test, we applied these techniques to four tree species common in the eastern United States: loblolly pine (Pinus taeda), sugar maple (Acer saccharum), American beech (Fagus grandifolia), and white oak (Quercus alba). When the four techniques were assessed with Kappa and fuzzy Kappa statistics, RF and BT were superior in reproducing current importance value (a measure of basal area in addition to abundance) distributions for the four tree species, as derived from approximately 100,000 USDA Forest Service's Forest Inventory and Analysis plots. Future estimates of suitable habitat after climate change were visually more reasonable with BT and RF, with slightly better performance by RF as assessed by Kappa statistics, correlation estimates, and spatial distribution of importance values. Although RTA did not perform as well as BT and RF, it provided interpretive models for species whose distributions were captured well by our current set of predictors. MARS was adequate for predicting current distributions but unacceptable for future climate. We consider RTA, BT, and RF modeling approaches, especially when used together to take advantage of their individual strengths, to be robust for predictive mapping and recommend their inclusion in the ecological toolbox.
23501439|Ontogenetic niche shifts are taxonomically and ecologically widespread across the globe. Consequently, identifying the ecological mechanics that promote these shifts at diverse scales is central to an improved understanding of ecosystems generally. We evaluated multiple potential drivers of ontogenetic niche shifts (predation, growth, maturation, diet shifts, and food availability) for three fish species between connected coral reef and nearshore habitats. In all cases, neither diet compositional change nor sexual maturity functioned as apparent triggers for emigration from juvenile to adult habitats. Rather, the fitness advantages conferred on reef inhabitants (that is, enhanced growth rates) were primarily related to high prey availability on reefs. However, there exists a clear trade-off to this benefit as survival rates for small fishes were significantly reduced on reefs, thereby revealing the potential value of (and rationale behind high juvenile abundances in) nearshore habitat as predation refugia. We ultimately conclude that predation risk functions as the primary early life stage inhibitor of ontogenetic niche shifts towards more profitable adult habitats in these systems. Furthermore, this study provides a case study for how complex, meta-dynamic populations and ecosystems might be better understood through the elucidation of simple ecological trade-offs.
25622902|The distribution of plant species in boreal forest understories is hypothesized to reflect mycorrhizal guilds and associated adaptations for organic nitrogen (N) acquisition. In this study of a natural edaphic gradient, where supply rates of inorganic N increase with site productivity, we noted a decline in understory ectomycorrhizal, ericoid, and arbutoid plant communities on productive sites, in contrast to a positive response by most arbuscular species. We then assessed the rate of change in foliar N concentration $({\rm N}_{{\rm conc}})$ and abundance of N (N) of select plants from these mycorrhizal guilds. Two arbuscular plant species (Rubus parviflorus and Viburnum edule) had the sharpest increases in foliar ${\rm N}_{{\rm conc}}$ with enhanced supplies of NH and NO, but with no differences in foliar N. An ectomycorrhizal species, Abies lasiocarpa, and ericoid species, Vaccinium membranaceum, had parallel increases in both ${\rm N}_{{\rm conc}}$ and N with soil N supply. The foliar N of two arbutoid plants (Orthilia secunda and Pyrola asarifolia) were as enriched as ectomycorrhizal sporocarps, likely indicating N transfer from mycorrhizal networks. The depletion of foliar N by ectomycorrhizal and ericoid plants on poorer sites likely reflected a high degree of N retention and photosynthate demand by fungi, whereas arbuscular plants may have had a less significant N response because of a more passive role by fungi in scavenging organic N. The results suggest differences in how mycorrhiza exploit diverse soil N supplies (recalcitrant and labile organic N, NH, NO, and parasitized N) could be an important factor in boreal plant community composition.
40296387|Patterns and controls of annual aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) are fundamental metrics of ecosystem functioning. It is generally assumed, but rarely tested, that determinants of ANPP in one region within a biome will operate similarly throughout that biome, as long as physiognomy and climate are broadly consistent. We tested this assumption by quantifying ANPP responses to fire, grazing history, and nitrogen (N) addition in North American (NA) and South African (SA) savanna grasslands. We found that total ANPP responded in generally consistent ways to fire, grazing history, and N addition on both continents. Annual fire in both NA and SA consistently stimulated total ANPP (28-100%) relative to unburned treatments at sites with deep soils, and had no effect on ANPP in sites with shallow soils. Fire did not affect total ANPP in sites with a recent history of grazing, regardless of whether a single or a diverse suite of large herbivores was present. N addition interacted strongly and consistently with fire regime in both NA and SA. In annually burned sites that were not grazed, total ANPP was stimulated by N addition (29-39%), but there was no effect of N fertilization in the absence of fire. In contrast, responses in forb ANPP to fire and grazing were somewhat divergent across this biome. Annual fire in NA reduced forb ANPP, whereas grazing increased forb ANPP, but neither response was evident in SA. Thus, despite a consistent response in total ANPP, divergent responses in forb ANPP suggest that other aspects of community structure and ecosystem functioning differ in important ways between these mesic savanna grasslands.
3658730|This paper examines the functional relationships among species in an Australian rangeland community with mixed life forms. It follows a previous study (Walker and others 1999) that explored the role of dominant and minor species in maintaining functional diversity and resilience in a rangeland ecosystem. Unlike our previous results, which were based on estimates of five plant functional attributes, the dominant species in this second community apparently are functionally no more dissimilar to each other than to all other species. We suggest that the lack of clear results in mixed life form communities represents a confounding of the relationships between the "hard" attributes that actually govern how a plant performs in an ecosystem and the "soft" attributes that we use as surrogates. There are very few data on the hard functional attributes of plant species and consequently little information on precisely how the (soft) measurable traits are related to their imputed functions. What evidence there is shows that although the relationships are strong within life forms, they differ between life forms. This poses a problem for the development of research relating plant biodiversity to ecosystem function. Until such a database is developed, it will be very difficult to advance our understanding and measurement of functional diversity in mixed life form communities.
3658766| The hydraulic residence time (or flushing rate of water) is a key variable for any aquatic ecosystem and is used in many types of models and calculations. Rather than being measured directly, the hydraulic residence time is usually inferred from estimates of watershed size, precipitation, and water yield. Such estimates can be problematic in any environment but are especially so in environments in which flat or complex topography makes delineations of mapped watershed boundaries difficult to discern. We added lithium bromide, (LiBr) to three small seepage lakes in the flat topography of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to provide an independent estimate of the water residence time. Water residence time [volume/(outflow + evaporation)] averaged 921  381 (SD) days among lakes and years and ranged from 400 to 1661 days at the extremes. This variation was not clearly related to year-to-year variation in precipitation, which was relatively constant [
23328055|Tropical forests determine global biogeochemical cycles to a large extent, but control factors for key ecosystem processes such as decomposition remain poorly understood. With a full-factorial C (cellulose), N (urea), and P (phosphate) fertilization experiment, we tested the relative importance of C and nutrient limitation on litter decomposition in a mature lowland moist forest of French Guiana. Despite the previously demonstrated litter C quality control over decomposition and the very low soil P content (0.1 mg g -1 of soil) at our study site, fertilization with C or P alone did not increase the decomposition of a wide range of litter types (N:P ratios between 20 and 80). Nitrogen fertilization alone also had no effect on decomposition. However, the combined fertilization with N and P resulted in up to 33.5% more initial litter mass lost, with an increasing effect with wider litter N:P ratios. Soil fauna strongly stimulated litter mass loss and enhanced nutrient fertilization effects. Moreover, nutrient effects on decomposition increased with additional C fertilization in the presence of fauna. Our results suggest that increased N availability is required for a positive P effect on decomposition in the studied P-poor tropical forest. Further stimulation of decomposition by C amendment through priming indicates energy limitation of decomposers that is co-determined by nutrient availability. The demonstrated intricate control of the key resources C, N, and P on decomposition calls for an intensified research effort on multiple resource limitation on key processes in tropical forests and how they change under multiple human impacts.
27823658|In brackish lagoons, Daphnia is replaced by calanoid copepods (Eurytemora affinis, Acartia spp.) and rotifers when a certain threshold (depending on, for instance, fish density) is reached. We hypothesize that loss of Daphnia induces a regime shift from clear to turbid at high nutrient concentrations. We conducted a factorial designed enclosure experiment with contrasting salinities (016), low fish predation (one three-spined stickleback, Gasterosteus aculeatus, m2) and three levels of nutrient loading in a shallow brackish lagoon. A change point analysis suggests a strong regime shift from a clear to a turbid state at 68 salinity at low and high loading, but not for the control. From the low to the high salt regime, chlorophyll a (Chla), Chla:total phosphorus (TP) and Chla:total nitrogen (TN) ratios shifted highly significantly for all nutrient treatments, and the bacterioplankton production followed the changes in Chla. These changes occurred parallel with a shift from cladoceran and cyclopoid copepod to rotifer dominance. Monitoring data from 60 Danish brackish lagoons show increasing Chla with increasing TP and TN as well as interactive effects of TN and salinity, peaking at intermediate salinity. A relatively weak effect of salinity at low nutrient concentrations and the stronger effect at intermediate high salinity are in accordance with the experimental results. However, these data suggest a lower salinity threshold than in the experiment, which may be explained by a higher fish density. Our results have implications for the management of coastal lagoons both at present and in a future (predicted) warmer climate: (1) improved water quality can be obtained by reducing the nutrient loading or enhancing the freshwater input to a level triggering a shift to Daphnia dominance (typically <2), (2) fish manipulation is probably not a useful tool for brackish lagoons, unless the salinity is below the threshold for a potential shift to a clear Daphnia dominated state, and (3) more abrupt changes will expectedly occur in low-saline coastal lagoons at increasing salinity during summer in a future warmer climate.
40296282|We investigated the linkages between leaf litter quality and decomposability in a savanna plant community dominated by palatable-spinescent tree species. We measured: (1) leaf litter decomposability across five woody species that differ in leaf chemistry; (2) mass decomposition, nitrogen (N); and carbon (C) dynamics in leaf litter of a staple browse species (Acacia nigrescens) as well as (3) variation in litter composition across six sites that experienced very different histories of attack from large herbivores. All decomposition trials included litter bags filled with chopped straw to control for variation in site effects. We found a positive relationship between litter quality and decomposability, but we also found that Acacia and straw litter mass remaining did not significantly vary between heavily and lightly browsed sites. This is despite the fact that both the quality and composition of litter returned to the soil were significantly different across sites. We observed greater N resorption from senescing Acacia leaves at heavily browsed sites, which in turn contributed to increase the C: N ratio of leaf litter and caused greater litter N immobilization over time. This, together with the significantly lower tree- and herb-leaf litter mass beneath heavily browsed trees, should negatively affect decomposition rates. However, estimated dung and urine N deposition from both browsers and grazers was significantly greater at high- than at low-herbivory sites. We hypothesize that N inputs from dung and urine boost litter N mineralization and decomposition (especially following seasonal rainfall events), and thereby offset the effects of poor leaf litter quality at chronically browsed sites.
41505895|We tested the hypothesis that the carcasses of anadromous Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) constitute a significant source of nutrients in the nutrient-poor freshwaters where these fish migrate, spawn, senesce, and die. In a 110 m-long stream reach in Southeast Alaska, we retained nearly 3000 salmon carcasses and compared streamwater nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and the biomass of benthic biofilm in this reach with an upstream reference reach. The study spanned 5 months, bracketed the entire salmon run, and encompassed significant seasonal variation in abiotic stream conditions. Concentrations of dissolved and paniculate N and P followed distinctly unimodal patterns through time, which tracked the abundance of live salmon, and we observed strong predictive relationships between live-salmon abundance and streamwater-nutrient concentrations. In contrast, we did not observe clear relationships between salmon carcasses and streamwater nutrients. Biofilm biomass within our study reaches seemed to more closely track the abundance of live salmon than the abundance of carcasses. The experimental retention of carcasses had a minor or undetectable influence on nutrient concentrations and biofilm within the study reach as compared to the reference reach. We conclude that physical factors such as temperature, discharge, nutrient limitation, and irradiance vary seasonally in ways that maximize the influence of nutrients provisioned by live salmon and minimize the influence of carcass-derived nutrients on the aspects of stream ecosystems that we examined. Overall, our results promote a new perspective on the ecological role of salmon in freshwaters, and contribute to a more mechanistic understanding of how migratory fishes can influence aquatic ecosystems.
3658615|This article reports responses of two different forest ecosystems to 9 years (1988-96) of chronic nitrogen (N) additions at the Harvard Forest, Petersham, Massachusetts. Ammonium nitrate
40296272|Anthropogenic disturbances of forest ecosystems are increasingly recognized as fundamental ecological processes with important long-term implications for biogeochemical cycles and vegetation patterns. This article aims at reconstructing the extent and intensity of the two most common types of traditional forest usesforest litter collecting and wood pasturein the Swiss Rhone valley (Valais) by (i) identifying the spatiotemporal patterns, and (ii) modeling the biomass removal through these practices. Detailed information on agricultural practices and socio-economic context were essential to develop reliable estimates of anthropogenic disturbance regimes. In the Valais, predominately goats and sheep grazed in the forests. The intensity of grazing was a function of the number of grazing animals and the available grazing area. Forest litter was used as bedding for farm animals during the winter. Key factors determining the intensity of litter collecting were the number of animal units, the amount of available substitute products (straw), and the area where litter raking could be practiced. The results show that wood pasture and forest litter collecting were practiced on a significant proportion of the forested landscape in the Valais up to the second half of the 20th century. Until the implementation of forest management plans in the 1930s, almost half of the forests in the study area were affected by wood pasture and/or forest litter collecting. The regulations in the management plans led to an essential reduction of the area available for these traditional practices but likewise to an increased pressure on the remaining areas. The results suggest that the notion of a slow but steady disappearance of traditional non-timber forest uses and the associated effects on forest ecosystems is oversimplified. Quantitative reconstructions of biomass output resulting from these practices confirm the importance of traditional non-timber forest uses for ecosystem development in this region. Furthermore, it is very likely that similar effects have been widespread throughout regions with similar natural and socio-economic context, for example, throughout a significant proportion of the European Alps. This study underlines the importance of environmental history for ecological sciences as well as for forest management and conservation planning.
25470403|Recent projections of climatic change have focused a great deal of scientific and public attention on patterns of carbon (C) cycling as well as its controls, particularly the factors that determine whether an ecosystem is a net source or sink of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO). Net ecosystem production (NEP), a central concept in C-cycling research, has been used by scientists to represent two different concepts. We propose that NEP be restricted to just one of its two original definitions-the imbalance between gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER). We further propose that a new term-net ecosystem carbon balance (NECB)-be applied to the net rate of C accumulation in (or loss from [negative sign]) ecosystems. Net ecosystem carbon balance differs from NEP when C fluxes other than C fixation and respiration occur, or when inorganic C enters or leaves in dissolved form. These fluxes include the leaching loss or lateral transfer of C from the ecosystem; the emission of volatile organic C, methane, and carbon monoxide; and the release of soot and CO from fire. Carbon fluxes in addition to NEP are particularly important determinants of NECB over long time scales. However, even over short time scales, they are important in ecosystems such as streams, estuaries, wetlands, and cities. Recent technological advances have led to a diversity of approaches to the measurement of C fluxes at different temporal and spatial scales. These approaches frequently capture different components of NEP or NECB and can therefore be compared across scales only by carefully specifying the fluxes included in the measurements. By explicitly identifying the fluxes that comprise NECB and other components of the C cycle, such as net ecosystem exchange (NEE) and net biome production (NBP), we can provide a less ambiguous framework for understanding and communicating recent changes in the global C cycle.
27823671|Extensive fires in recent decades in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) garnered much attention for causing a significant decrease in the extent of conifer forest cover. Meanwhile, conifer forests in unburned parts of the GYE have continued to increase in extent and density. Conifer cover increase has been well documented by repeat historical photography, but the average rate of increase and the spatial variation remain unquantified. We examined changes in conifer cover across biophysical gradients in the GYE based on stratified random samples from aerial photographs. The percent conifer cover for samples in 1971 and 1999 was quantified to determine the frequency and rate of conifer cover change. A slight majority of samples (56%) showed no change, whereas increases (22%) were balanced by decreases (22%). However, among samples that were not recently burned or logged, or already closed-canopy, nearly 40% increased in conifer cover, at an average annual rate of 0.22%. We quantified significant variability in the frequency and rate of conifer cover increase across gradients of elevation, aspect, vegetation type, and proximity to nearby conifer forest. The most dynamic locations were low density conifer woodlands on northerly aspects at lower elevations, with average annual rates of increase up to 0.51%. This study is significant because it demonstrates that rates of conifer cover increase vary across biophysical gradients, an important consideration for management of dynamic forest ecosystems. Improved understanding of this variability helps us to better understand what factors ultimately cause conifer cover increase. It is also a critical step towards accurate quantification of the magnitude of carbon uptake by conifer cover increase.
27823706|Gross rates of N mineralization and nitrification, and soilatmosphere fluxes of N2O, NO and NO2 were measured at differently grazed and ungrazed steppe grassland sites in the Xilin river catchment, Inner Mongolia, P. R. China, during the 2004 and 2005 growing season. The experimental sites were a plot ungrazed since 1979 (UG79), a plot ungrazed since 1999 (UG99), a plot moderately grazed in winter (WG), and an overgrazed plot (OG), all in close vicinity to each other. Gross rates of N mineralization and nitrification determined at in situ soil moisture and soil temperature conditions were in a range of 0.54.1 mg N kg1 soil dry weight day1. In 2005, gross N turnover rates were significantly higher at the UG79 plot than at the UG99 plot, which in turn had significantly higher gross N turnover rates than the WG and OG plots. The WG and the OG plot were not significantly different in gross ammonification and in gross nitrification rates. Site differences in SOC content, bulk density and texture could explain only less than 15% of the observed site differences in gross N turnover rates. N2O and NOx flux rates were very low during both growing seasons. No significant differences in N trace gas fluxes were found between plots. Mean values of N2O fluxes varied between 0.39 and 1.60 g N2O-N m2 h1, equivalent to 0.030.14 kg N2O-N ha1 y1, and were considerably lower than previously reported for the same region. NOx flux rates ranged between 0.16 and 0.48 g NOx-N m2 h1, equivalent to 0.010.04 kg NOx-N ha1 y1, respectively. N2O fluxes were significantly correlated with soil temperature and soil moisture. The correlations, however, explained only less than 20% of the flux variance.
41505988|Ecological trade-offs by organisms to minimize mortality and maximize growth is a foundational theme in ecology. Yet, these trade-offs are rarely examined within spatially complex, temporally variable ecosystems, such as floodplain rivers. Here, we evaluate ecological trade-offs across space and time for the bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus) in two unregulated river ecosystems in southeastern USA. Life-history differences among spatially segregated main channel and floodplain lake populations were used to assess effects of habitat type on bluegill fitness. Growth, condition, and gonadal somatic index were all significantly enhanced in floodplain lakes relative to the main channel. Furthermore, stomach fullness was significantly higher, and predator densities significantly lower in floodplain lakes thereby providing an ecological explanation for the life-history plasticity observed across the riverscape. However, historical observations suggested that although floodplain lakes are highly productive for bluegills, they are also prone to complete desiccation by drought approximately every 5 years, revealing the ultimate value of channel habitat, which does not dry, as desiccation refugia. Bluegills are faced with a balancing act associated with variation in foraging opportunities, and risks to prdation and desiccation, that change in both the temporal and the spatial dimensions of floodplain rivers. The differential responses to these opportunities and risks help to explain why both habitats remain actively populated by bluegills, as well as many other organisms, in these and many other natural rivers.
27823766|The fate of terrestrially-derived dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is important to carbon (C) cycling in both terrestrial and aquatic environments, and recent evidence suggests that climate warming is influencing DOC dynamics in northern ecosystems. To understand what determines the fate of terrestrial DOC, it is essential to quantify the chemical nature and potential biodegradability of this DOC. We examined DOC chemical characteristics and biodegradability collected from soil pore waters and dominant vegetation species in four boreal black spruce forest sites in Alaska spanning a range of hydrologic regimes and permafrost extents (Well Drained, Moderately Well Drained, Poorly Drained, and Thermokarst Wetlands). DOC chemistry was characterized using fractionation, UVVis absorbance, and fluorescence measurements. Potential biodegradability was assessed by incubating the samples and measuring CO2 production over 1 month. Soil pore water DOC from all sites was dominated by hydrophobic acids and was highly aromatic, whereas the chemical composition of vegetation leachate DOC varied significantly with species. There was no seasonal variability in soil pore water DOC chemical characteristics or biodegradability; however, DOC collected from the Poorly Drained site was significantly less biodegradable than DOC from the other three sites (6% loss vs. 1315% loss). The biodegradability of vegetation-derived DOC ranged from 10 to 90% loss, and was strongly correlated with hydrophilic DOC content. Vegetation such as Sphagnum moss and feathermosses yielded DOC that was quickly metabolized and respired. In contrast, the DOC leached from vegetation such as black spruce was moderately recalcitrant. Changes in DOC chemical characteristics that occurred during microbial metabolism of DOC were quantified using fractionation and fluorescence. The chemical characteristics and biodegradability of DOC in soil pore waters were most similar to the moderately recalcitrant vegetation leachates, and to the microbially altered DOC from all vegetation leachates.
40296391|Predicting if ecosystems will mitigate or exacerbate rising CO requires understanding how elevated CO will interact with coincident changes in diversity and nitrogen (N) availability to affect ecosystem carbon (C) storage. Yet achieving such understanding has been hampered by the difficulty of quantifying belowground C pools and fluxes. Thus, we used mass balance calculations to quantify the effects of diversity, CO , and N on both the total amount of C allocated belowground by plants (total belowground C allocation, TBCA) and ecosystem C storage in a periodically burned, 8-year Minnesota grassland biodiversity, CO, and N experiment (BioCON). Annual TBCA increased in response to elevated CO , enriched N, and increasing diversity. TBCA was positively related to standing root biomass. After removing the influence of root biomass, the effect of elevated CO remained positive, suggesting additional drivers of TBCA apart from those that maintain high root biomass. Removing root biomass effects resulted in the effects of N and diversity becoming neutral or negative (depending on year), suggesting that the positive effects of diversity and N on TBCA were related to treatmentdriven differences in root biomass. Greater litter production in high diversity, elevated CO, and enhanced N treatments increased annual ecosystem C loss in fire years and C gain in non-fire years, resulting in overall neutral C storage rates. Our results suggest that frequently burned grasslands are unlikely to exhibit enhanced C sequestration with increasing atmospheric CO levels or N deposition.
25053836|Because nitrogen is considered to be the major growth-limiting element in boreal forests, the increasing nitrogen availability from deposition should lead to increasing growth. We have tested this assumption by simulating, with a simple model, carbon and nitrogen development in seven long-term fertilization experiments in three Nordic countries. The only differences between sites in the model are climate, the ambient nitrogen deposition, nitrogen fertilization regimes, and the initial conditions at the start of the experiment. The model simulates the observed stand development well as long as nitrogen remains the limiting factor. The simulated retention of deposited nitrogen is in general low (less than 50%), whereas retention of fertilizer nitrogen is higher. This seems to imply that the higher production in the fertilized stands will not be maintained once the fertilization is stopped. The model results also indicate that the major effect of climate on site productivity is through soil processes, not tree physiology.
3658716|Riparian zones effectively remove nitrogen (N) from water flowing through riparian soils, particularly in agricultural watersheds. The mechanism of N removal is still unclear, especially the role of vegetation. Uptake and denitrification are the two most commonly studied mechanisms. Retention of groundwater N by plant uptake is often inferred from measurements of N in net incremental biomass. However, this assumes other sources of N are not contributing to the N demand of plants. The purpose of this work was to investigate the relative importance of three sources of available N to riparian trees in a desert stream-input in stream water during floods, input during baseflow, and mineralization of N from soil organic matter. Two approaches were used; a mass balance approach in which the mass of available N from each source was estimated, and a correlational approach in which indexes of each source were compared to leaf N for individual willow trees. Total N from all sources was
41505994|We analyzed the influence of above-and belowground factors on the soil microbial community in a Chinese subtropical forest, one of the most diverse biomes in the northern hemisphere. Soil samples were taken at different depths from four replicate comparative study plots in each of three forest age classes (young 10-40 years, medium 40-80 years, old >80 years). Microbial biomass and community structure were then determined using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis, and basal respiration and microbial biomass carbon (C mic ) were determined by substrate-induced respiration. These data were then related to plant community and soil variables using non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis and post-hoc permutational correlations. We found that microbial lipid composition and abundance were not related to forest age class. Instead, microbial lipid composition and abundance were related to factors reflecting primary production, i.e., percent litter cover, percent dead wood cover, and percent tree layer cover. Specifically, the relative abundance (mol fraction) of indicators for arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria were positively significantly correlated with percent litter cover. We also found that the biomass of all microbial groups and total PLFA were negatively significantly related to percent deadwood cover. In addition, pH H2O was the only soil parameter that was correlated significantly to microbial biomass. Our results indicate that overarching ecological factors such as plant productivity and soil pH are important factors influencing the soil microbial community, both in terms of biomass and of community composition in this subtropical ecosystem.
40928239|Invasion of exotic forest pests and pathogens is a serious environmental problem for many forests throughout the world, and has been especially damaging to forests of eastern North America. We studied the impacts of an exotic pest/pathogen complex, the beech bark disease (BBD), in the Catskill Mountains of New York State, USA. In this region, BBD has caused a decline in the basal area of American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) over the last 60 years and this decline has been accompanied by an increase in the basal area of sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.). We studied the impacts of the BBD on carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycling using a series of stands that represented a sequence of disease impact and beech replacement by sugar maple. Our study showed that these longterm changes in tree species composition can lead to important changes in C and N cycling in the ecosystem, including an increase in litter decomposition, a decrease in soil C:N ratio, and an increase in extractable nitrate in the soil and nitrate in soil solution. Rates of potential net N mineralization and nitrification did not change across the BBD sequence, but the fraction of mineralized N that was nitrified increased significantly. Many of the observed changes in ecosystem function are larger in magnitude than those attributed to climate change or air pollution, suggesting that the impacts of invasive pests and pathogens on tree species composition could be one of the most important factors driving changes in C and N cycling in these forests in the coming decades.
40296301|Bythotrephes longimanus is an invertebrate predator that has invaded the North American Great Lakes and a number of inland lakes, where it preys on crustacean zooplankton. We examined the effect of Bythotrephes on two measures of ecosystem function during a four-month observational study of freshwater lakes on the boreal shield. Bythotrephes-in vaded lakes had significantly lower epilimnetic zooplankton abundance and production compared to reference lakes. On average, Bythotrephes consumed 34% of zooplankton production when it was present in lakes. There was some evidence of changes in the timing of zooplankton production, as well as shifts to cooler, less productive habitats, which may lessen the overall effect of the invader on the transfer of energy to higher trophic levels. We experimentally demonstrated a weak trophic cascade where invader predation reduced zooplankton biomass, and subsequently increased phytoplankton growth. However, the response was small in magnitude and not biologically relevant at the whole lake-scale. The most conspicuous effect of Bythotrephes that we measured was a diversion of energy away from native predators at higher trophic levels.
40296410|Effects of gap-size classes on litter decomposition rates were investigated in a high-elevation forest for 4 years by placing leaf litter of beech (Fagus orientalis Lipsky.), oak (Quercus robur L.), and chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) in (1) a closed canopy, (2) small gaps with a diameter of less than 15 m, (3) intermediate gaps with a diameter of 15-30 m, and (4) large gaps with a diameter of more than 30 m. The leaf litter placed under the closed canopy or within the small gaps decayed more rapidly than those in the intermediate or the large gaps for all three deciduous species. Among the microclimatic and soil factors, soil temperature was most strongly positively correlated with litter decomposition rates, and among the three species, initial lignin concentration was the best predictor of litter decomposition rates. Differences in litter decomposition rates among the four gap-size classes were generally significant, but varied among the three species. Litter with low lignin concentrations tended to be more responsive to canopy openings. Large forest gaps significantly reduced litter decomposition rates in this study by changing environmental conditions, especially by decreasing soil temperature and soil pH which reduced soil respiration rates. These changes may result in reduced nutrient cycling, carbon cycling, and organic matter turnover rates in these forest ecosystems.
3658742| Soil water chemistry and element budgets were studied at three northwestern European Calluna vulgaris heathland sites in Denmark (DK), The Netherlands (NL), and Wales (UK). Responses to experimental nighttime warming and early summer drought were followed during a two-year period. Soil solution chemistry measured below the organic soil layer and below the rooting zone and water fluxes estimated with hydrological models were combined to calculate element budgets. Remarkably high N leaching was observed at the NL heath with 18 and
27823684|Nutrient over-enrichment is a major threat to marine environments, but system-specific attributes of coastal ecosystems may result in differences in their sensitivity and susceptibility to eutrophication. We used fertilization experiments in nitrogen (N)- and phosphorus (P)-limited mangrove forests to test the hypothesis that alleviating different kinds of nutrient limitation may have different effects on ecosystem structure and function in natural systems. We compared a broad range of ecological processes to determine if these systems have different thresholds where shifts might occur in nutrient limitation. Growth responses indicated N limitation in Avicennia germinans (black mangrove) forests in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida, and P limitation at Twin Cays, Belize. When nutrient deficiency was relieved, A. germinans grew out of its stunted form by increasing wood relative to leaf biomass and shoot length relative to lateral growth. At the P-limited site, P enrichment (+P) increased specific leaf area, N resorption, and P uptake, but had no effect on P resorption. At the N-limited site, +N increased both N and P resorption, but did not alter biomass allocation. Herbivory was greater at the P-limited site and was unaffected by +P, whereas +N led to increased herbivory at the N-limited site. The responses to nutrient enrichment depended on the ecological process and limiting nutrient and suggested that N- versus P-limited mangroves do have different thresholds. +P had a greater effect on more ecological processes at Twin Cays than did +N at the IRL, which indicated that the P-limited site was more sensitive to nutrient loading. Because of this sensitivity, eutrophication is more likely to cause a shift in nutrient limitation at P-limited Twin Cays than N-limited IRL.
3658837|The invasion of north temperate forests by exotic species of earthworms is an important issue that has been overlooked in the study and management of these forests. We initiated research to address the hypothesis that earthworm invasion will have large consequences for nutrient retention and uptake in these ecosystems. In this special feature of Ecosystems, we present five papers describing results from our experiment. In this paper, we (a) introduce our experimental approach and conceptual model of how earthworms influence forest ecosystem processes, (b) describe the characteristics of the study areas and earthworm communities at our two study locations, and (c) provide a brief overview and synthesis of the main findings. The most dramatic effect of earthworm invasion was the loss of the forest floor at an undisturbed forest site, which altered the location and nature of nutrient cycling activity in the soil profile. Invasion changed soil total carbon (C) and phosphorus (P) pools, carbon-nitrogen (C:N) ratios, the loss and distribution of different soil P fractions, and the distribution and function of roots and microbes. Response to invasion varied with site characteristics and earthworm species. Our results suggest that exotic earthworm invasion is a significant factor that will influence the structure and function of northern temperate forest ecosystems over the next few decades. Regional evaluations of these forests will need to consider the presence or absence of earthworms along with other important ecosystem drivers, such as pollution, climate, and underlying soil characteristics.
27823760|West Coast prairies in the US are an endangered ecosystem, and effective conservation will require an understanding of how changing climate will impact nutrient cycling and availability. We examined how seasonal patterns and micro-heterogeneity in edaphic conditions (% moisture, total organic carbon, % clay, pH, and inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus) control carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycling in an upland prairie in western Oregon, USA. Across the prairie, we collected soils seasonally and measured microbial respiration, net nitrogen mineralization, net nitrification, and phosphorus availability under field conditions and under experimentally varied temperature and moisture treatments. The response variables differed in the degree of temperature and moisture limitation within seasons and how these factors varied across sampling sites. In general, we found that microbial respiration was limited by low soil moisture year-round and by low temperatures in the winter. Net nitrogen mineralization and net nitrification were never limited by temperature, but both were limited by excessive soil moisture in winter, and net nitrification was also inhibited by low soil moisture in the summer. Factors that enhanced microbial respiration tended to decrease soil phosphorus availability. Edaphic factors explained 76% of the seasonal and spatial variation in microbial respiration, 35% of the variation in phosphorus availability, and 29% of the variation in net nitrification. Much of the variation in net nitrogen mineralization remained unexplained (R2 = 0.19). This study, for the first time, demonstrates the complex seasonal controls over nutrient cycling in a Pacific Northwest prairie.
3658614|Residential development of lakeshores is expected to change a variety of key lake features that include increased nutrient loading, increased invasion rate of nonnative species, increased exploitation rates of fishes by anglers, and alteration of littoral habitats. All of these factors may alter the capacity of lakes to support productive native fish populations. Fourteen north temperate lakes were surveyed to examine how growth rates of two common fish species (bluegill sunfish, Lepomis macrochirus; largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides) varied along a residential development gradient. Size-specific growth rates for both species were negatively correlated with the degree of lakeshore residential development, although this trend was not statistically significant for largemouth bass. On average, annual growth rates for bluegill sunfish were 2.6 times lower in heavily developed lakes than in undeveloped lakes. This effect of lakeshore development on fish growth was not size specific for bluegills between 60 and 140 mm in total length. An index of population production rate that accounted for both the size-specific growth rate and the size distribution of fishes showed that bluegill populations were approximately 2.3 times less productive in highly developed lakes than in undeveloped lakes. Our results suggest that extensive residential development of lakeshores may reduce the fish production capacity of aquatic ecosystems.
3658906|We analyzed data sets on phytomass production, basal cover, and monthly precipitation of a semiarid grassland in South Africa for good, medium, and poor rangeland condition (a) to investigate whether phytomass production per unit of basal cover differed among rangeland conditions, (b) to quantify the time scales of a carryover effect from production in previous months, and (c) to construct predictive models for monthly phytomass. Finally, we applied the best models to a 73-year data set of monthly precipitation data to study the long-term variability of grassland production. Our results showed that mean phytomass production per unit of basal cover did not vary significantly among the rangeland conditions-that is, vegetated patches in degraded grassland have approximately the same production as vegetated patches in grassland in good condition. Consequently, the stark decline in production with increasing degradation is a first-order effect of reduced basal area. Current-year precipitation accounted for 64%, 62%, and 36% of the interannual variation in phytomass production for good, medium, and poor condition, respectively. We found that 61%, 68%, and 33%, respectively, of the unexplained variation is related to a memory index that combines mean monthly temperature and a memory of past precipitations. We found a carryover effect in production from the previous 4 years for grassland in good condition and from the previous 1 or 3S month for grassland in medium and poor condition. The memory effect amplified the response of production to changes in precipitation due to alternation of prolonged periods of dry or wet years/months at the time scale of the memory. The interannual variability in phytomass production per unit basal cover (coefficient of variation [CV] = 0.42-0.50 for our 73-year prediction, CV = 0.57-0.71 for the 19-year data) was greater than the corresponding temporal variability in seasonal rainfall (CV = 0.29).
3658893|Plans for the restoration of aquatic ecosystems are increasingly focusing on the restoration and rehabilitation of self-sustaining native fish communities. Such efforts have not traditionally adopted an ecosystem-based perspective, which considers species as embedded within a broader food web context. In this study, we quantify food web changes in Lake Tahoe (California-Nevada) over the last century based on stable isotope analysis of museum-archived, preserved fish specimens collected during 4 historical periods and under present conditions. We also examine the contemporary food web of nearby Cascade Lake, which is free from most exotic species and contains a species assemblage resembling that of Lake Tahoe prior to historical species introductions. During the last century, the freshwater shrimp Mysis relicta and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) have been introduced and established in Lake Tahoe, and the native top predator, Lahontan cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki henshawi; hereafter LCT), has been extirpated. Isotope analysis indicates that lake trout now occupy a trophic niche similar to that of historical LCT. Fish production has shifted from benthic to pelagic, corresponding with the eutrophication of Lake Tahoe during recent decades. The current Cascade Lake food web resembles that of the historical Lake Tahoe food web. Our isotope-based food web reconstructions reveal long-term food web changes in Lake Tahoe and can serve as the basis for setting historically relevant restoration targets. Unfortunately, the presence of nonnative species, particularly Mysis and lake trout, have dramatically altered the pelagic food web structure; as such, they are barriers to native fish community restoration. Fish community restoration efforts should focus on adjacent ecosystems, such as Cascade Lake, which have a high likelihood of success because they have not been heavily affected by nonnative introductions.
23325687|Forest ecosystems are the most important terrestrial carbon (C) storage globally, and presently mitigate anthropogenic climate change by acting as a large and persistent sink for atmospheric CO 2 . Yet, forest C density varies greatly in space, both globally and at stand and landscape levels. Understanding the multi-scale drivers of this variation is a prerequisite for robust and effective climate change mitigation in ecosystem management. Here, we used airborne light detection and ranging (Lidar) and a novel high-resolution simulation model of landscape dynamics (iLand) to identify the drivers of variation in C density for an old-growth forest landscape in Oregon, USA. With total ecosystem C in excess of 1 Gt ha -1 these ecosystems are among the most C-rich globally. Our findings revealed considerable spatial variability in stand-level C density across the landscape. Notwithstanding the distinct environmental gradients in our mountainous study area only 55.3% of this variation was explained by environmental drivers, with radiation and soil physical properties having a stronger influence than temperature and precipitation. The remaining variation in C stocks was largely attributable to emerging properties of stand dynamics (that is, stand structure and composition). Not only were density- and size-related indicators positively associated with C stocks but also diversity in composition and structure, documenting a close link between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. We conclude that the complexity of old-growth forests contributes to their sustained high C levels, a finding that is relevant to managing forests for climate change mitigation.
3659065|The accumulation and decomposition of coarse woody debris (CWD) are processes that affect habitat, soil structure and organic matter inputs, and energy and nutrient flows in forest ecosystems. Natural disturbances such as fires typically produce large quantities of CWD as trees fall and break, whereas human disturbances such as timber harvesting remove much of the CWD. Our objective was to compare the amount of CWD removed and left behind after clear-cutting to the amount consumed and left behind after natural fires in Rocky Mountain lodgepole pine. The masses of fallen logs, dead-standing trees, stumps, and root crowns more than 7.5 cm in diameter were estimated in clear-cut and intact lodgepole pine forests in Wyoming and compared to estimates made in burned and unburned stands in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), where no timber harvesting has occurred. Estimates of downed CWD consumed or converted to charcoal during an intense crown fire were also made in YNP. No significant differences in biomass of downed CWD more than 7.5 cm in diameter were detected between burned stands and those following a single clear-cut. However, the total mass of downed CWD plus the mass of snags that will become CWD was nearly twice as high in burned stands than in clear-cuts. In YNP, approximately 8% of the downed CWD was consumed by fire and an additional 8% was converted to charcoal, for an estimated loss of about 16%. In contrast, approximately four times more wood (70%) was removed by clear-cutting. Considering all CWD more than 7.5 cm in diameter that was either still present in the stand or removed by harvesting, slash treatment, or burning, clear-cut stands lost an average of
3658902|To elucidate the sensitivity of bog ecosystems to high levels of nitrogen (N) deposition, we investigated the fate of
3658718|Seagrass meadows within estuaries are highly sensitive to increased supplies of nitrogen (N). The urbanization of coastal watersheds increases the delivery of N to estuaries, threatening seagrass habitats; both seagrass production per unit area and the area of seagrass meadows diminish as land-derived N loads increase. The damaging effects of land-derived N loads may be lessened where there are fringes of coastal wetlands interposed between land and seagrass meadows. Data compiled from the literature showed that production per unit area by seagrasses increased and losses of seagrass habitat were lower in estuaries with relatively larger areas of fringing wetlands. Denitrification and the burial of land-derived N within fringe wetlands may be sufficient to protect N-sensitive seagrass habitats from the detrimental effects of land-derived N. The protection furnished by fringing wetlands may be overwhelmed by increases in anthropogenic N loads in excess of
25622898|Reliable soil organic carbon (SOC) stock measurements of all major ecosystems are essential for predicting the influence of global warming on global soil carbon pools, but hardly any detailed soil survey data are available for tropical montane cloud forests (TMCF) and adjacent high elevation grasslands above (puna). TMCF are among the most threatened of ecosystems under current predicted global warming scenarios. We conducted an intensive soil sampling campaign extending 40 km along the tree line in the Peruvian Andes between 2994 and 3860 m asl to quantify SOC stocks of TMCF, puna grassland, and shrubland sites in the transition zone between the two habitats. SOC stocks from the soil surface down to the bedrock averaged (standard error SE) 11.8 (1.5, N = 24) kg C/m in TMCF, 14.7 (1.4, N = 9) kg C/m in the shrublands and 11.9 (0.8, N = 35) kg C/m in the grasslands and were not significantly different (P > 0.05 for all comparisons). However, soil profile analysis revealed distinct differences, with TMCF profiles showing a uniform SOC distribution with depth, shrublands a linear decrease, and puna sites an exponential decrease in SOC densities with soil depth. Organic soil layer thickness reached a maximum (70 cm) at the upper limit of the TMCF and declined with increasing altitude toward puna sites. Within TMCF, no significant increase in SOC stocks with increasing altitude was observed, probably because of the large variations among SOC stocks at different sites, which in turn were correlated with spatial variation in soil depth.
43677527|Emergent aquatic insects can provide inputs to terrestrial ecosystems near lentic and lotie waterbodies, producing ecosystem linkages at the aquatic-terrestrial interface. Although aquatic insect emergence has been examined for individual sites, the magnitude and spatial distribution of this phenomenon has not been examined at regional spatial scales. Here, we characterize this cross-habitat linkage for the state of Wisconsin, USA (169,639 km). We combined GIS hydrological data with empirical data and predictive models of aquatic insect production to estimate annual aquatic emergence for the state of Wisconsin. Total emergence (lentic + lotie) was estimated to be about 6,800 metric tons of C y. Lentic systems comprised 79% of total estimated insect emergence, primarily due to the large amount of lake surface area relative to streams. This is due to both basic ecosystem geometry and the overall abundance of lakes in Wisconsin. Spatial variation was high: insect emergence in southwestern Wisconsin was dominated by streams, whereas for most of the rest of the state insect emergence was dominated by lakes. Lentic inputs to land were highly concentrated (relative to lotic inputs) because lakes have a high ratio of surface area to buffer area. Although less concentrated, the spatial extent of lotie influence was greater: statewide, four times more land area fell within the 100 m buffer zones of streams compared to lakes. Large waterbodies (almost all of which were lakes) were hotspots of insect emergence and input to land. Aquatic insect inputs exceed estimated terrestrial secondary production in 13% of buffer area, and by a factor of 100 or more adjacent to large lakes (>50,000 ha). The model sensitivity analysis showed that the simplifying assumptions and sources of potential error in the input variables had a minor impact on the overall results.
3659064|Ecosystems provide a wide range of services to society. Some forms of use affect the quality of the ecosystem, reducing its value for other users. This leads to a conflict of interest that is often settled through political processes, resulting in some form of regulation. We link theory on ecosystem response to theories from the socioeconomic branches of science to analyze the mechanisms behind two widespread problems associated with such political solutions. First, they often represent a compromise rather than an integrative solution. We demonstrate that, particularly in sensitive ecosystems, integrative solutions yield a higher average social utility and imply a higher ecosystem quality. Integrative solutions require insight into ecosystems responses to different forms of use and a complete overview of ecosystem services to society. Second, there is a systematic bias away from optimal shared use toward activities that are detrimental to ecosystem quality. This bias arises from the fact that utilities depending on ecosystem quality are often shared by large diffuse groups, whereas pollution and harvesting activities can usually be traced to relatively small and well-organized groups. Theory and data indicate that this type of concentrated group is systematically better at mustering political power than large groups, which find it difficult to realize collective action due to what is known in game theory as "free-rider problems." Our analysis suggests that the following three key ingredients are needed to correct the problems of bias and compromise: (a) clear insight into ecosystem dynamic responses to human use, (b) a broad inventory of credible measurements of ecosystem utilities, (c) avoidance of bias due to differences in the organizational power of groups of stakeholders. We argue that good ecosystem models, institutionalized ecosystem valuation, and innovative tax-setting schedules are essential to achieving a socially fair and sustainable use of ecosystems by societies. In addition, we highlight the fact that many environmental problems remain unresolved for a long time and briefly identify the social mechanisms responsible for this delay.
27823657|Alternative stable states in shallow lakes have received much attention over the past decades, but less is known about transient dynamics of such lakes in the face of stochastic perturbations such as incidental extremes in water levels driven by climatic variability. Here, we report on the ecosystem dynamics of 70 lakes in the floodplains of the Lower Rhine in The Netherlands from 1999 to 2004. In any particular year, most lakes were either in a macrophyte-dominated clear state or in a contrasting state with turbid water and sparse submerged macrophyte cover. Macrophyte dominance was positively related to the occurrence of drawdown, and negatively to lake surface area and mean depth. We did not find a relation with nutrient levels. Remarkably, shifts between the two contrasting states were common, and episodes of low water levels appear to be an important external driver. A dry period before our study and the exceptionally dry summer of 2003 caused wide-spread drawdown of floodplain lakes, resulting in establishment of submerged macrophytes in the next year upon refill. In the 4 years without drawdown, many lakes returned to a macrophyte-poor turbid state. Although some lakes turned turbid again quickly, others took several years to shift into the turbid state. A model analysis suggests that such prolonged transient vegetated states may be explained by the fact that the system dynamics slow down in the vicinity of the "almost stable" macrophyte-dominated state. Such a "ghost" of an equilibrium causes the system to stick around that state relatively long before slipping into the only true stable state. Our results support the idea that transient dynamics rather than equilibrium may be the key to understanding the overall state of some ecosystems. A practical implication of our findings is that artificial stabilization of the water level in shallow lakes may have been an important factor aggravating the permanent loss of submerged macrophytes due to cultural eutrophication.
3658882|The principle of competitive exclusion is a fundamental tenet of ecology. Commonly used competition models predict that at most only one species per limiting resource can coexist in the same environment at steady state; hence, the upper limit to species diversity depends only on the number of limiting resources and not on the rates of resource supply. We demonstrate that such model behavior is the result of both the growth and biomass turnover functions being proportional to the population biomass. We argue that at least the growth function should be a nonlinear, concave downward function of biomass. This form for the growth function should arise simply because of changes in the allometry of individuals in the population. With this change in model structure, we show that any number of species can coexist at an asymptotically stable steady state, even where there is only one limiting resource. Furthermore, if growth increases nonlinearly with biomass, the steady-state resource concentration and hence the potential for biodiversity increases as the resource supply rate increases.
41413037|The biodiversity of plankton ecosystems may no longer be a paradox, but the mechanisms that determine coexistence of explicit competitors in ecosystems remain a mystery. This is particularly so in ecosystem models, where competitive exclusion remains the dominant process. Climate and fisheries models require plankton ecosystem submodels that maintain competing plankton functional types extant, but coexistence can be reproduced in only a few 'just so' theoretical models. This limits our ability to predict the impacts of climate change and fisheries on ocean biota. We consider ecosystems of Kolmogorov form that conserve mass (CK systems). These systems describe a general class of ecosystem models that includes many theoretical and applied models. We develop heuristics that illuminate the key mechanisms that allow the coexistence of explicit competitors in these systems. These heuristics facilitate the identification of a large class of models with the structural property that all species coexist for all time. Our approach unifies many theoretical and applied models in a common biogeochemical framework, providing a powerful tool with the potential to generate new insights into the properties of complex ecosystems.
3658587|The objective of this study was to test for general effects of patch size, patch isolation, disturbance frequency, and patch life span, on density and diversity of organisms. We sampled predominantly herbivorous insects in 31 alfalfa fields that varied in size, isolation, frequency of disturbance by cutting, and age (number of years planted in alfalfa). Effects on insect relative density and diversity were examined at three taxonomic levels: all insects, eight separate orders, and six legume-specialist weevil species. We found that (a) more isolated alfalfa fields had higher overall insect richness, (b) fields with higher disturbance frequency had lower overall insect richness, and (c) fields of intermediate age had highest insect richness. In some cases these patterns were reflected at lower taxonomic levels, but in many cases they were not. These results are important because they indicate that, although we cannot simultaneously tailor a landscape for each of thousands of species, we may be able to produce desired effects at a more general level.
23501500|Understanding the interactions between predators and prey is essential for predicting the effects of disturbances to ecosystems. Motorways produce changes in the surrounding biotic and abiotic environment and hence have multiple impacts on wildlife. Some species are known to change their activity patterns in the proximity of motorways but the implications for the structure of food webs are unknown. This study analyzes the activity patterns of both mammalian predators and their prey species near nine motorways in attempt to clarify how motorways affect the mammalian community. Habitat structural variables were also sampled to control the effects of microhabitat on relative prey abundance. Our results revealed different activity patterns of both predators and prey near motorways that are independent of structural differences in microhabitat. Both the red fox and small mammals were found to use the zone close to the motorways more frequently, whereas lagomorphs and mustelids were less active there. These differences suggest that motorways favor the population of the predator that is most tolerant of human activity, the red fox, whose activity could have both direct and indirect effects on that of other members of the predator and prey community. On the one hand, the red fox seems to act as "top predator" and mustelids to follow a "safety match" strategy avoiding the area close to the motorway where fox is more active. On the other hand, abundances of prey species are negatively associated with the activity of their most frequent predators. This study is the first to assess how the proximity to motorways affects the activity of mammals in two levels of the food web and opens the field for research to understand the processes driving the detected patterns. Moreover, such effects at the community scale should be taken into account when evaluating the impacts of motorways on the surrounding ecosystems.
23325691|The reciprocal effects between sediment texture and seagrass density are assumed to play an important role in the dynamics and stability of intertidalcoastal ecosystems. However, this feedback relationship has been difficult to study empirically on an ecosystem scale, so that knowledge is mainly based on theoretical models and small-scale (experimental) studies. In this paper we apply a non-recursive structural equation model (SEM) to empirically investigate, at large spatial scale, the mutual dependence between seagrass (Zostera noltii) density and sediment texture, on the pristine, seagrass-dominated, intertidal mudflats of the Banc d'Arguin, Mauritania. The non-recursive SEM allows consistent estimation and testing of a direct feedback between sediment and seagrass whilst statistically controlling for the effects of nutrients and abiotic stress. The resulting model is consistent with the hypothesized negative feedback: grain size decreases with seagrass density, whereas fine grain size has a negative impact on seagrass density because it decreases pore water exchange which leads to hypoxic sediment conditions. Another finding is that seagrass density increases with sediment organic material content up to a threshold level beyond which it levels off. In combination with decreasing grain size, accumulation of organic matter creates hypoxic sediment conditions which lead to the production of toxic hydrogen sulfide which slows down seagrass growth. The negative feedback loop implies that intertidal Z. noltii modifies its own environment, thus controlling its growing conditions. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to demonstrate a direct negative feedback relationship in ecosystems by means of a non-recursive SEM.
25470356|In vegetated terrestrial ecosystems, carbon in below- and aboveground biomass (BGB, AGB) often constitutes a significant component of total-ecosystem carbon stock. Because carbon in the BGB is difficult to measure, it is often estimated using BGB to AGB ratios. However, this ratio can change markedly along resource gradients, such as water availability, which can lead to substantial errors in BGB estimates. In this study, BGB and AGB sampling was carried out in Eucalyptus populnea-dominated woodland communities of northeast Australia to examine patterns of BGB to AGB ratio and vertical root distribution at three sites along a rainfall gradient (367, 602, and 1,101 mm). At each site, a vegetation inventory was undertaken on five transects (100  4 m), and trees representing the E. populnea vegetation structure were harvested and excavated to measure aboveground and coarse-root (diameter of at least 15 mm) biomass. Biomass of fine and small roots (diameter less than 15 mm) at each site was estimated from 40 cores sampled to 1 m depth. The BGB to AGB ratio of E. populnea-dominated woodland plant communities declined from 0.58 at the xeric end to 0.36 at the mesic end of the rainfall gradient. This was due to a marked decline in AGB with increased aridity whereas the BGB was relatively stable. The vertical distribution of fine roots in the top 1 m of soil varied along the rainfall gradient. The mesic sites had more fine-root biomass (FRB) in the upper soil profile and less at depth than the xeric site. Accordingly, at the xeric site, a much larger proportion of FRB was found at depth compared to the mesic sites. The vertical distribution patterns of small roots of the E. populnea woodland plant communities were consistently)-shaped, with the highest biomass occurring at 15-30-cm depth. The potential significance of such a rooting pattern for grass-tree and shrub-tree co-existence in these ecosystems is discussed. Overall, our results revealed marked changes in BGB to AGB ratio of E. populnea woodland communities along a rainfall gradient. Because E. populnea woodlands cover a large area (96 M ha), their contribution to continental-scale carbon sequestration and greenhouse gas emission can be substantial. Use of the rainfall-zone-specific ratios found in this study, in lieu of a single generic ratio for the entire region, will significantly improve estimates of BGB carbon stocks in these woodlands. In the absence of more specific data, our results will also be relevant in other regions with similar vegetation and rainfall gradients (that is, arid and semiarid woodland ecosystems).
23501503|In Europe, many contemporary forests are not continuous, but were established on former agricultural land in territories of deserted villages. We aimed to explore whether medieval settlement activities of only 60 years irreversibly changed soil properties and whether these changes were reflected by contemporary forest vegetation. The research was performed in the deserted village of K, which existed from 1357 to ca 1420 AD in a current oak forest on sandy soils in the Czech Republic. We identified four former land-use types (building sites, courtyards, the village square, and gardens), where we analyzed soil properties and plant species composition of the forest understory. Higher concentrations of plant-available P, K, Ca, and Mg as well as the total concentrations of organic C and trace elements (As, Cd, Cu, and Zn) were recorded at former building sites with neutral soils, compared to the other former land-use types with acidic soils. The four-times higher species richness at former building sites compared to the former gardens indicate the strong effect of soil pH and nutrient availability on plant species composition, even on the spatial scale of several square metres. Understanding recent patterns in soil properties and biodiversity in Central European forests requires detailed knowledge of former land use over centuries. Analysis of contemporary soil properties together with analysis of vegetation can help to identify former land-use types in deserted villages.
40296385|The modification of large areas of tropical forest to agricultural uses has consequences for the movement of inorganic nitrogen (N) from land to water. Various biogeochemical pathways in soils and riparian zones can influence the movement and retention of N within watersheds and affect the quantity exported in streams. We used the concentrations of
25470397|From 1993 to 2001, we conducted a series of experiments in a mixed grassland-woodland system in central New South Wales (NSW) to quantify the interactions between red foxes and their prey and competitors. Foxes were removed from two areas around the perimeter of Lake Burrendong, and data were collected from these areas and a nearby untreated area before, during, and after the period of fox control. The arrival of rabbit hemorrhagic disease (RHD) in 1996 provided an opportunity to examine the interactive effects of controlling foxes and rabbits. In this landscape, typical of central NSW, (a) the fox population was not affected by a large reduction in the abundance of rabbits, or vice versa; (b) the cat population declined in areas where foxes were removed after the large RHD-induced reduction in rabbit numbers, but there was no consistent response to the removal of foxes; (c) the abundance of some macropod species increased in response only to the combined removal of rabbits and foxes; (d) there were no consistent changes in the abundances of bird species in response to the removal of either foxes or rabbits, but there were clear habitat differences in bird species richness; and (e) there was likely to be an increase in woody plant species after the large reduction in rabbit populations by RHD. We conclude that (a) long-term field experiments (more than 3 years) are required to quantify the indirect consequences of controlling foxes and rabbits, and (b) single manipulations, such as fox control or rabbit control, are not necessarily sufficient for the conservation of remnant woodland communities in southeastern Australia.
25470415|The Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries requires that managers take account of the environmental impacts of fishing. We develop linked state and pressure indicators that show the impact of bottomtrawling on benthic communities. The state indicator measures the proportion of an area where benthic invertebrate biomass (B) or production (P) is more than 90% of pristine benthic biomass
43677525|The importance of positive effects of ecosystem engineers on associated communities is predicted to increase with environmental stress. However, incorporating such non-trophic interactions into ecological theory is not trivial because facilitation of associated species is conditional on both the type of engineer and the type of abiotic stress. We tested the influence of two allogenic ecosystem engineers (lugworms, Arenicola marina L. and cockles, Cerastoderma edule L.) on the main primary producers (microphytobenthos) of the tidal flats, under different abiotic stresses controlled by reefs of blue mussels (Mytilus edulis L). We added 25,000 cockles or 2,000 lugworms to 5  5 m plots, both in a muddy site with high sedimentation rates located coastward of a mussel bed, and in a sandy site without mussels and characterized by high hydrodynamic stress. After a year, cockles increased algal biomass in the sandy area, but not in the mussel bed site, where high values were measured in all plots. However, lugworms did not affect algal biomass in any of the sites. Field measurements suggest that cockles outweighed negative effects of water currents in the site without mussels by locally increasing sediment stability, whereas mussels overruled the effects of cockles in the wake of the reefs through hydrodynamic stress alleviation and/or biodeposition. Our results suggest that non-trophic interactions by ecosystem engineering bivalves control primary production of intertidal areas, and that the sediment-stabilizing effect of cockles plays a crucial role where the overruling effects of mussel beds are not present.
41507779|Wildfires are an important agent in driving ecosystem function by altering vegetation structure and geomorphic processes. In recent decades, the number of wildfires and the total area burned has increased around the world, causing changes to natural regimes. In this study, we compared southand north-facing slopes, their vegetation structure and dynamics, and the sediment yield generated in areas burned a number of times at the Carmel Mountain ridge in northern Israel. Our underlying hypothesis was that repeated and frequent fires significantly alter eco-geomorphic processes, including prolonged periods of soil erosion and delayed recovery of tree species. We tested whether these phenomenon are characterized by different rates on opposing aspects. To study the long-term changes of the vegetation we analyzed a 21-year (1985-2006) chrono-sequence of satellite images, in areas burned once, twice, or three times. Additionally, we estimated vegetation structure and cover at high resolutions in monitoring plots following a fire in 2005 in areas burned once or twice during the last two decades. To evaluate the long-term dynamics of the system, specific transition probabilities among the vegetation types, as a function of the number of times each site was burned, were used to construct Markov-based transition matrices. Additionally, runoff and sediment have been collected after precipitation events from the plots. The satellite image classifications revealed changes in the composition of tree, shrub, and herbaceous vegetation cover following wildfire events. Satellite image analyses suggest that recurring fires within short-time intervals may significantly alter the long-term structure of the vegetation communities, and may eliminate woody vegetation from the landscape (both trees and shrubs). Consequently, this results in the establishment and dominance of herbaceous vegetation communities. Similar trends were observed in the high-resolution monitoring plots. Sediment yields differed significantly in areas burned twice on south-facing slopes, compared to lower values obtained in areas burned once, or located on northfacing slopes. Thus, we demonstrate that repeated fires may dramatically alter long-term trajectories of Mediterranean-type vegetation communities and ecosystems. This pattern, in turn, may have significant implications for the associated geo-morphological processes, especially runoff and erosion, and should be of particular concern given recent changes of fire regimes.
3658876|In their review of 24 studies of forest nitrogen (N) budgets, Binkley and others (2000) found that only one of them supported the conclusion that an N accumulation of more than 25 kg
41505915|Inorganic nitrogen (N) availability hot spots have been documented in many ecosystems, but major uncertainties remain about their prevalence, timing, and causes. Using a novel mathematical definition of hot spots, spatially explicit measurements of KCl-extractable inorganic N, 2-week soil incubations in the field, ion-exchange resins deployed for 1 year, and a set of associated biotic and abiotic variables, we investigated inorganic N availability hot spots within a 0.89 km alpine-subalpine ecosystem in the Colorado Front Range. Measurements of KCl-extractable NH and NO taken on multiple dates showed that hot spots of N availability were present in some but not all parts of the study site and that hot spot location varied over the course of the season. Ionexchange resins showed that over a 1-year period hot spots were important contributors to resinavailable N at the landscape level, with 14% of resin locations accounting for 58% of total resin-extractable inorganic N. The KCl-extractable and resinavailable inorganic N measurements showed that although spatial variation in the timing of hot spots (that is, hot moments) spreads the influence of short-term hot spots across the landscape to some extent, spatial variation in inorganic N availability is still important when integrated over 1 year. Resinavailable N was poorly correlated with the biotic and abiotic variables that we measured, though we did observe that hot spots of resin-available N were twice as common below tree and shrub canopies than in herbaceous areas. Beyond this relationship with canopy structure, neither KCl-extractable nor resinavailable inorganic N hot spots were closely related to plant species identity. Instead, the most effective predictor of KCl-extractable NH was the size of the soil organic matter (SOM) N pool, with nearly all hot spots appearing in soils that had greater than 1.4% SOM N.
40603647|Ice storms are an important and recurring ecological disturbance in many temperate forest ecosystems. In 1998, a severe ice storm damaged over ten million hectares of forest across northern New York State, eastern Canada, and New England impacting ecosystem processes across the landscape. This study investigated the spatial arrangement of forest damage at the terrestrial-aquatic interface, an ecological edge of importance to aquatic habitat and nutrient cycling. Vegetation indices, derived from satellite imagery and field-based data, were used to measure forest canopy damage across a 2045 km region in northern New York State affected by the 1998 storm. We investigated the forest damage gradient in the riparian zone of 13 stream segments of varying size (92.5 km total length) and 13 lakes (37.4 km of shoreline). Large streams (-fourth and fifth order), occurring in forests that received modest ice damage (< 15% disturbance coverage), exhibited significantly more damage in the riparian zone within 25 m of the water than in adjacent forest sections; F(3,12) = 7.3 P = 0.005. In similar moderately damaged forests, lake shorelines were significantly more damaged than interior forests; F(3,9) = 6.4 P = 0.013. Analysis of transitions in damage intensity revealed that canopy disturbance followed a decreasing trend (up to 3.5 times less) with movement inland from the terrestrial-aquatic interface. The observed predisposition of forest to disturbance along this ecosystem interface emphasizes the role of the physical landscape in concentrating the movement of wood from the forest canopy to locations proximate to water bodies, thus reinforcing findings that ice storms are drivers of ecological processes that are spatially concentrated.
25053854|Over the next century, ecosystems throughout the world will be responding to rapid changes in climate and rising levels of carbon dioxide, inorganic N and ozone. Because people depend on biological systems for water, food and other ecosystem services, predicting the range of responses to global change for various ecosystem types in different geographic locations is a high priority. Modeling exercises and manipulative experimentation have been the principle approaches used to place upper and lower bounds on community and ecosystem responses. However, each of these approaches has recognized limitations. Manipulative experiments cannot vary all the relevant factors and are often performed at small spatio-temporal scales. Modeling is limited by data availability and by our knowledge of how current observations translate into future conditions. These weaknesses would improve if we could observe ecosystems that have already responded to global change factors and thus presage shifts in ecosystem structure and function. Here we consider whether urban forest remnants might offer this ability. As urban forests have been exposed to elevated temperature, carbon dioxide, nitrogen deposition and ozone for many decades, they may be ahead of the global change "response curve" for forests in their region. Therefore, not only might forests along urbanization gradients provide us with natural experiments for studying current responses to global change factors, but their legacy of response to past urbanization may also constitute space-for-time substitution experiments for predicting likely regional forest responses to continued environmental change. For this approach to be successful, appropriate criteria must be developed for selecting forest remnants and plots that would optimize our ability to detect incipient forest responses to spatial variation in global change factors along urbanization gradients, while minimizing artifacts associated with remnant size and factors other than those that simulate global change. Studying forests that meet such criteria along urban-to-rural gradients could become an informative part of a mixed strategy of approaches for improving forecasts of forest ecosystem change at the regional scale.
3658832|A recently identified dinoflagellate, Pfiesteria piscicida, has been implicated as a cause of fishkills in mid-Atlantic estuaries. To date, field evidence supporting this argument has consisted of samples, analyzed for the presence of the toxic Pfiesteria forms, gathered during a fishkill. I present a probabilistic approach to examine the use of this kind of a posteriori information as an indication of cause and effect relationships. The analysis shows that the conditional probability of the presence of Pfiesteria after a fishkill has begun provides little support for Pfiesteria as a cause of fishkills, without also knowing the probability of Pfiesteria's presence under all conditions. Documenting the relative presence of toxic life stages during fishkills and under non-fishkill conditions will provide supporting evidence to assess Pfiesteria's role in fishkills. However, proving that Pfiesteria causes estuarine fishkills using only 'after the fact' information is essentially impossible.
25053828|Rivers and estuaries transport organic carbon (C) from terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems to the marine environment. During this transit, bacteria actively utilize and transform organic C, but few studies have measured detailed spatial variation in rates of bacterial respiration (BR) and production (BP). We measured BP at 39 stations and BR at 12 stations at monthly intervals along a 200-km reach of the tidal Hudson River. We observed strong repeatable spatial patterns for both BP and BR, with rates declining in the downstream direction. Bacterial Production had much greater dynamic range of spatial variation than BR. We used the detailed seasonal and spatial data on BP and BR to measure the total C demand of bacteria at several scales. We calculated volumetric and areal rates for 12 sections of the Hudson, as well as the total C utilization. Volumetric BR averaged 20
25053890|Resilience theory offers a framework for understanding the dynamics of complex systems. However, operationalizing resilience theory to develop and test empirical hypotheses can be difficult. We present a method in which simple systems models are used as a framework to identify resilience surrogates for case studies. The process of constructing a systems model for a particular case offers a path for identifying important variables related to system resilience, including the slowly-changing variables and thresholds that often are keys to understanding the resilience of a system. We develop a four-step process for identifying resilience surrogates through development of systems models. Because systems model development is often a difficult step, we summarize four basic existing systems models and give examples of how each may be used to identify resilience surrogates. The construction and analysis of simple systems models provides a useful basis for guiding and directing the selection of surrogate variables that will offer appropriate empirical measures of resilience.
3658816|Shrubs have invaded extensive areas of grassland in the southwestern United States. The zones of nutrient-rich soil found beneath plant canopies, referred to as "islands of fertility," are more intense and spaced father apart in shrubland than in grassland. This difference in the spatial pattern of soil nutrients may reinforce shrub invasion. Changes in water availability in the soil could also influence shrub invasion. Here we compare the spatial patterns of infiltration, defined as the total equivalent water depth entering the soil following individual rainfall events or summed over many events, at adjacent grass- and shrub-dominated sites in the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge. We use two infiltration data sets. First, following four rainfall events, we measured soil moisture and wetting front depth at 10-cm intervals along 24-m transects. We estimate infiltration from these data. Second, we use vertical arrays of soil moisture probes to compare infiltration between adjacent canopies and interspaces following 31 storms. In both the grassland and shrubland, infiltration is typically greater beneath plant canopies than beneath interspaces. Canopies are oases where soil moisture is higher than in the surrounding areas. However, infiltration is not greater beneath canopies when surface runoff is limited. In the shrubland, the canopy-interspace infiltration ratio increases as storm size, and therefore runoff, increases. This relationship also exists in the grassland, but it is not as strong or clear. The magnitude of spatial variability of infiltration is similar in shrubland and grassland. In addition, the distance over which infiltration is correlated is approximately 50 cm in both environments. Most of the spatial variability exists between the stem and canopy margin in the shrubland and straddling the canopy margin in the grassland. The most notable difference is that subcanopy oases are spread farther apart in the shrubland because canopies are separated by larger interspaces in this environment.
40928211|Many populations are exposed to naturally occurring or synthetic toxicants. An increasing number of studies demonstrate that the toxicity of such compounds is not only dependent on the concentration or load, but also on the biomass or density of exposed organisms. At high biomass, organisms may be able to alleviate adverse effects of the toxicant by actively lowering ambient concentrations through either a joint detoxification mechanism or growth dilution. We show in a conceptual model that this mechanism may potentially lead to alternative stable states if the toxicant is lethal at low densities of organisms, whereas a high density is able to reduce the toxicant concentrations to sublethal levels. We show in an example that this effect may be relevant in real ecosystems. In an earlier published experimental laboratory study, we demonstrated that ammonia toxicity in eelgrass is highly dependent on the eelgrass shoot density. Here, we used the results of these experiments to construct a model describing the complex interactions between the temperate seagrass Zostera marina and potentially lethal ammonia. Analyses of the model show that alternative stable states are indeed present over wide ranges of key-parameter settings, suggesting that the mechanism might be important especially in sheltered, eutrophicated estuaries where mixing of the water layer is poor. We argue that the same mechanism could cause alternative stable states in other biological systems as well.
40928243|In this study, we investigate changes in ecosystem structure that occur over a gradient of land-degradation in the southwestern USA, where shrubs are encroaching into native grassland. We evaluate a conceptual model which posits that the development of biotic and abiotic structural connectivity is due to ecogeomorphic feedbacks. Three hypotheses are evaluated: 1. Over the shrub-encroachment gradient, the difference in soil properties under each surface-cover type will change non-linearly, becoming increasingly different; 2. There will be a reduction in vegetation cover and an increase in vegetation-patch size that is concurrent with an increase in the spatial heterogeneity of soil properties over the shrub-encroachment gradient; and 3. Over the shrub-encroachment gradient, the range at which soil properties are autocorrelated will progressively exceed the range at which vegetation is autocorrelated. Field-based monitoring of vegetation and soil properties was carried out over a shrubencroachment gradient at the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in New Mexico, USA. Results of this study show that vegetation cover decreases over the shrub-encroachment gradient, but vegetation-patch size increases, with a concurrent increase in the spatial heterogeneity of soil properties. Typically, there are significant differences in soil properties between non-vegetated and vegetated surfaces, but for grass and shrub patches, there are only significant differences for the biotic soil properties. Results suggest that it is the development of larger, wellconnected, non-vegetated patches that is most important in driving the overall behavior of shrubdominated sites. Results of this study support the hypothesis that feedbacks of functional connectivity reinforce the development of structural connectivity, which increases the resilience of the shrubdominated state, and thus makes it harder for grasses to re-establish and reverse the vegetation change.
27823708|The boundaries between mangroves and freshwater hammocks in coastal ecotones of South Florida are sharp. Further, previous studies indicate that there is a discontinuity in plant predawn water potentials, with woody plants either showing predawn water potentials reflecting exposure to saline water or exposure to freshwater. This abrupt concurrent change in community type and plant water status suggests that there might be feedback dynamics between vegetation and salinity. A model examining the salinity of the aerated zone of soil overlying a saline body of water, known as the vadose layer, as a function of precipitation, evaporation and plant water uptake is presented here. The model predicts that mixtures of saline and freshwater vegetative species represent unstable states. Depending on the initial vegetation composition, subsequent vegetative change will lead either to patches of mangrove coverage having a high salinity vadose zone or to freshwater hammock coverage having a low salinity vadose zone. Complete or nearly complete coverage by either freshwater or saltwater vegetation represents two stable steady-state points. This model can explain many of the previous observations of vegetation patterns in coastal South Florida as well as observations on the dynamics of vegetation shifts caused by sea level rise and climate change.
25470360|Spatial variability in hydrological flowpaths and nitrate-removal processes complicates the overall assessment of riparian buffer zone functioning in terms of water quality improvement as well as enhancement of the greenhouse effect by NO emissions. In this study, we evaluated denitrification and nitrous oxide emission in winter and summer along two groundwater flowpaths in nitrate-loaded forested riparian buffer zone and related the variability in these processes to controlling soil factors. Denitrification and emissions of NO were measured using flux chambers and incubation experiments. In winter, NO emissions were significantly higher (12.4 mg N m d) along the flowpath with high nitrate removal compared with the flowpath with high nitrate removal compared with the flowpath with low nitrate removal (2.58 mg N m d). In summer a reverse pattern was observed, with higher NO emissions (13.6 mg N m d) from the flowpath with low nitrate-removal efficiencies. Distinct spatial patterns of denitrification and NO emission were observed along the high nitrate-removal transect compared to no clear pattern along the low nitrate-removal transect, where denitrification activity was very low. Results from this study indicate that spots with high nitrate-removal efficiency also contribute significantly to an increased NO emission from riparian zones. Furthermore, we conclude that high variability in NO:N ratio and weak relationships with environmental conditions limit the value of this ratio as a proxy to evaluate the environmental consequences of riparian buffer zones.
23501448|Climate change (CC) is projected to increase the frequency and severity of natural disturbances (wildfires, insect outbreaks, and debris flows) and shift distributions of terrestrial ecosystems on a global basis. Although such terrestrial changes may affect stream ecosystems, they have not been incorporated into predictions of stream responses to CC. Here, we introduce a conceptual framework to evaluate to what extent responses of streams to CC will be driven by not only changes in thermal and hydrologic regimes, but also alterations of terrestrial processes. We focused on forested watersheds of western North America because this region is projected to experience CC-induced alteration of terrestrial processes. This provided a backdrop for investigating interactive effects of climate and terrestrial responses on streams. Because stream responses to terrestrial processes have been well-studied in contexts largely independent of CC research, we synthesized this knowledge to demonstrate how CC-induced alterations of terrestrial ecosystems may affect streams. Our synthesis indicated that altered terrestrial processes will change terrestrialaquatic linkages and autotrophic production, potentially yielding greater sensitivity of streams to CC than would be expected based on shifts in temperature and precipitation regime alone. Despite uncertainties that currently constrain predictions regarding stream responses to these additional pathways of change, this synthesis highlighted broader effects of CC that require additional research. Based on widespread evidence that CC is linked to changing terrestrial processes, we conclude that accurate predictions of CC effects on streams may be coupled to the accuracy of predictions for long-term changes in terrestrial ecosystems.
3658689|Nitrate leaching to streams is a sensitive indicator of the biogeochemical status of forest ecosystems. Two primary theories predicting long-term (decadal) changes in nitrate loss rates (N saturation theory and the nutrient retention hypothesis) both predict increasing dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) losses for watershed 6 (W6), the biogeochemical reference watershed at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF). Measured values, however, have declined substantially since measurements began in the mid-1960s. Are these theories wrong, or are there other important controls on DIN losses at the annual to decadal time scale that have obscured the tendency toward higher losses over time? We tested the individual and combined effects of several forms of disturbance on DIN loss rates from northern hardwood forests by comparing predictions from a relatively simple model of forest carbon, nitrogen, and water dynamics (PnET-CN) with the long-term record of annual DIN loss from W6 at HBEF. Perturbations tested include interannual climate variation, changes in atmospheric chemistry (
3658871|Critical soil acidification loads (CL) and related exceedances, base cation leaching, N leaching, and forest biomass growth were evaluated for a well-studied deciduous forest site within the Turkey Lake Watershed (TLW). The assessment was done by way of steady-state mass balance considerations of primary inputs for N, Ca, Mg, and K. Critical soil acidification rates were found to be high at TLW. These rates amounted to about 900 or 1400 eq/(ha yr) depending on the forest harvesting regime (selective harvest or maintainence of old-growth condition, respectively). The TLW soil substrate (till derived from basaltic bedrock) appeared to weather well, thereby buffering against natural and anthropogenic soil acidification. As a consequence, soil acidification exceedances were estimated to be relatively low for both the selective harvest and old growth scenarios. In comparing overall S and N input/output data (atmospheric deposition data vs soil leaching losses), we found that the TLW site was essentially near or at S and N saturation. We also found that atmospheric deposition and soil leaching rates have been declining since about 1980. The figures for CL and exceedance varied to some extent depending on the quality of input data and related uncertainties. Estimated exceedances were increased when dry- as well as wet-deposition rates were considered. They varied depending on the yearly sulfate/nitrate/base-cation mix, and the definition of "acceptable acid leaching." In addition, they were dependent on whether the forest was considered old growth or not.
41505964|Net ecosystem exchange (NEE) of two contrasting mountain forest types in Switzerland was measured by eddy covariance (EC) measurements at a montane mixed forest, the Lgeren forest, over 5 years (2005-2009), and at a subalpine coniferous forest the Seehornwald in Davos, over 12 years (1997-2009). NEE was validated against annual carbon (C) storage estimates, based on biometrie and soil respiration measurements as well as soil C modeling. There different approaches were used: (1) calculation of net ecosystem production by quantifying C pools and fluxes, (2) assessment of change in wood biomass and soil C storage (C), and (3) application of biomass expansion factors. Although biometric estimates were sensitive to assumptions made for each method applied, they agreed well with measured NEE. Comparing 5 years of EC measurements available at both sites during 2005 and 2009 revealed that NEE, gross primary production (GPP), and total ecosystem respiration (TER) were larger at the Lgeren forest compared to the Davos forest, whereas soil respiration and soil C sequestration were of similar magnitudes. Both sites showed similar annual trends for NEE, GPP and TER, but different seasonal courses, due to different responses to environmental conditions (temperature, soil moisture, and radiation). Differences in the magnitude as well as in the seasonally of ecosystem CO exchange could mainly be attributed to tree phenology, productivity, and carbon allocation patterns, which are combined effects of tree type (broad-leaved vs. coniferous trees) and site-specific climatic conditions. Flux differences between the two mountain sites highlight the importance of considering the role of altitude in ecological studies and modeling.
41413045|Litter decomposition is a central focus of ecosystem science because of its importance to biogeochemical pools and cycling, but predicting dryland decomposition dynamics is problematic. Some studies indicate photodegradation by ultraviolet (UV) radiation can be a significant driver of dryland decomposition, whereas others suggest soil-litter mixing controls decomposition. To test the influence of soil coverage on UV photodegradation of litter, we conducted a controlled environment experiment with shrub (Prosopis velutina) leaf litter experiencing two UV levels and three levels of coverage with dry sterile soil. Under these conditions, decomposition over 224 days was enhanced by UV, but increasing soil coverage strongly and linearly diminished these effects. In a complementary study, we placed P. glandulosa leaf litter in different habitats in the field and quantified litter surface coverage by soil films. After 180 days, nearly half of the surface area of litter placed under shrub canopies was covered by a tightly adhering film composed of soil particles and fungal hyphae; coverage was less in grassy zones between shrubs. We propose a conceptual model for the shifting importance of photodegradation and microbial decomposition over time, and conclude that (1) soil deposition can ameliorate the direct effects of UV photodegradation in drylands and (2) predictions of C losses based solely on UV effects will overestimate the importance of this process in the C cycle. An improved understanding of how development of the soil-litter matrix mediates the shift from abiotic (photodegradation) to biotic (microbial) drivers is necessary to predict how ongoing changes in land cover and climate will influence biogeochemistry in globally extensive drylands.
40296314|We used tree-ring dating and C dating to document the temporal distribution and carbon storage of oak (Quercus spp.) wood in trees recruited and buried by streams and floodplains in northern Missouri, USA. Frequency distributions indicated that oak wood has been accumulating in Midwest streams continually since at least the late Pleistocene, about 14,000 calibrated radiocarbon years before present (cal. BP). The median residence time of an oak bole in the study streams was 3,515 years (n = 200). More than 30% of sampled oak wood entered the floodplain sediments and stream waters within the last 1,000 years, though very few samples dated to the last 150 years. Temporal variability in the record of oak recruitment to streams suggests a potentially strong influence from shifts in climate and fluvial processes, although other possible influences are addressed. Recent human impacts on streams have altered the dynamics of oak input and sequestered carbon with unknown long-term consequences. The long duration of carbon storage (mean age = 1,960 years) in this waterlogged environment appears to be strongly limited by decreasing wood density resulting from reductions in cell wall thickness. Lack of evidence of biotic degradation may imply that wood loss is largely due to abiotic hydrolyses. These findings document a continuous and long-term form of carbon storage that is sensitive to changes in climate and anthropogenic alteration of fluvial processes.
3658770|The problem of multiple scales permeates the study of ecological process and pattern, uniting aspects of space, time, and organizational complexity. In particular, it supports the maintenance of biological diversity, allowing for the magnification of underlying patterns of variation in the physical environment to create many resources from few, through the evolutionary diversification of species' niches and life histories. Specialization to particular stages of a successional gradient facilitates coexistence of multiple types in the presence of uncorrelated local disturbances, such as gap formation, which reinitiate successional sequences. Superimposed upon such successional dynamics are the effects of multiple stable states and multiple successional pathways (Levin 1976), which increase diversity even more. Multiple stable states more generally raise the possibility of sudden flips of systems from one stable configuration to another, and with such changes may come huge changes in the biotic composition. On larger spatial scales and longer time scales, these flips may become correlated, resulting in the transformation of the landscape, or may result in sustained spatiotemporal mosaics of states. Instability at the local level may lead to the maintenance of biodiversity on broader scales. Finally, the ultimate scale mismatch involves that between the dynamics of natural systems and the cultural dynamics of human societies. Our ability to live sustainably in a global commons is dependent upon adjusting normative behavior, and tightening feedback loops more generally, so that individual actions serve the common good.
41505906|Abandonment of arable land is often assumed to happen mostly in marginal areas where the conditions for arable cultivation are relatively unfavorable, whereas arable expansion is expected to occur mostly in areas with favorable conditions. This assumption, used in many land-use change forecasts, was never properly tested, mainly because the relatively short period of full-coverage land-use inventories did not allow a systematic analysis of the phenomena. With the recent release of CORINE 2006 this has changed. In this article, we explore the typical locations of abandonment and expansion of arable land in Europe during the period 1990-2006 by means of logistic regressions. More specifically, we test whether or not locations of abandonment and expansion can be inferred from the location characteristics of arable land in 1990. If the above assumption holds, this should be the case. We demonstrate that although arable expansion indeed happens in locations that resemble the bulk of arable land in 1990 (the presumably favorable locations), arable abandonment does not necessarily happen in locations that resemble the bulk of uncultivated land (that is, the presumably unfavorable locations). In other words, the assumption does not hold. Particularly, areas close to the road network were found to be associated with both high abandonment rates and high expansion rates, which suggest that abandonment is not limited to areas that are marginal in terms of agricultural production.
25622870|High amounts of phosphorus (P) are in soil of former farmland due to previous fertilizer additions. Draining these residues would provide conditions for grassland plant species diversity restoration amongst other ecosystem benefits. Nitrogen (N) fertilization followed by cutting with subsequent removal of biomass has been suggested as a P residue removal method. We present a general model of N and P ecosystem cycling with nutrients coupled in plant biomass. We incorporate major P pools and biological and physico-chemical fluxes around the system together with transfers into and out of the system given several decades of management. We investigate conditions where N addition and cutting accelerate fertilizer P draining. Cutting does not generally accelerate soil P depletion under short-term management because the benefits of biomass removal through decreased P mineralization occur on too long a timescale compared to cutting's impact on the ability of plants to deplete nutrients. Short-term N fertilization lowers soil fertilizer P residues, provided plant growth remains N limited. In such situations, N fertilization without biomass removal increases soil organic P. Some scenarios show significant reductions in available P following N addition, but many situations record only marginal decreases in problematic soil P pools compared to the unfertilized state. We provide explicit conditions open to experimental testing. Cutting might have minimal adverse impacts, but will take time to be successful. N fertilization either alone or in combination with cutting is more likely to bring about desired reductions in P availability thus allowing grassland restoration, but might have undesired ecosystem consequences.
43677526|Coastal ecosystems are energetically connected through passive transport of nutrients but also by migrations of motile organisms. Mangroves are highly productive tropical ecosystems that replenish offshore populations of many species, but we know little about the degree to which this production is fuelled by prey from mangroves, especially in the cases in which mangroves are only accessible at high tide. Different results have been obtained on the importance of mangroves as feeding habitats, confounded by differences in species composition, seascape configuration, and methodology. In the present study, we took a more holistic approach by exploring reliance by fishes on man-groves as a feeding habitat at multiple ecological levels: from individuals to species to communities in mangrove ecosystems from across the globe, using a stable isotope approach. A two end-member mixing model showed a wide range (12-72%) in degree of reliance on mangrove food sources by fishes from different studies across the globe. However, analyzed at the levels of individual fish and species, reliance was low (for example, <25% for 55% of the species worldwide, or <50% for 85% of species, respectively) even though they were collected from sites that differed in geographical location, tidal regime, seascape structure, and species composition. The high fisheries productivity of mangroves appears to be energetically supported largely by food sources from adjacent habitats. In light of the ongoing rapid demise and fragmentation of mangrove and adjacent ecosystems, loss of ecosystem connectivity is likely to affect the productivity and functioning of tropical coastal ecosystems and the services they provide.
25470396|Invasive species have the capacity to substantially alter soil processes, including rates of litter decomposition. Currently, the few remaining native-dominated lowland wet forests in Hawai'i are being invaded by Falcataria moluccana, a large, fast-growing, N-fixing tree. In this study, we sought to determine the extent to which Falcataria invasion alters decomposition in these lowland wet forests, and whether changes resulted from differences in litter substrate type, lava flow age and type, forest stand type and associated soil biota, or some combination of these factors. We measured decomposition rates and nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) dynamics of Metrosideros polymorpha and Falcataria leaf litter in native-dominated and Falcataria-invaded stands on 48- and 300-year-old a'a lava flows and a 213-year-old phoehoe flow in the Puna district of eastern Hawai'i. Despite significant differences in the initial quality of Metrosideros and Falcataria litter, in nearly all cases mass remaining of the two litter types did not differ within a given forest stand, whether native-dominated or invaded. Instead, stand type accounted for large differences in the decomposition of both litter types, and litter decomposed two to 10 times faster in Falcataria-invaded stands than it did in their native-dominated counterparts on each lava flow. Dynamics of N (that is, immobilization or release) during decomposition were affected by stand, litter, and lava flow type; P dynamics were affected by stand and flow type, but not litter type. Although not definitive proof of causality, the decay rates of both species were positively correlated to previously measured inputs of N mass and P mass via litterfall as well as availability of soil N and P, characteristics that all increased substantially with Falcataria invasion. Given the degree of change to a host of ecosystem processes, including decomposition, after invasion by Falcataria, these transformed forest ecosystems may best be viewed as fundamentally new and different, in both structure and function, from the native ecosystems they have replaced.
27823692|Ecological transition zones are increasingly recognized as systems that play a critical role in controlling or modifying flows of organisms, materials, and energy across landscapes. Many concepts describing transitional areas have been proposed over the years, such as the prevalent and durable ecotone concept. Confusion among ecologists and land managers about transition zone concepts and the isolation of studies that use only one transition concept can hinder unified progress in understanding these key systems. Currently, a movement toward conceptual synthesis under the umbrella concept of 'ecological boundary' is underway. Here we examine the history and theoretical baggage of the ecotone, riparian zone, and several other concepts. Subsequently, we present a conceptual cluster analysis, which facilitates a better understanding of the similarities and differences between boundary and transition concepts. We emphasize the hierarchical nature of these concepts: higher-level synthetic concepts can be used in the development of theory, whereas lower-level concepts allow more specificity and the formulation of operational definitions. Finally, we look briefly at the utility and future use of boundary and transition zone concepts.
23253736|In tropical mountains, trees are the dominant life form from sea level to above 4,000-m altitude under highly variable thermal conditons (range of mean annual temperatures: <8 to > 28C). How light-saturated net photosynthesis of tropical trees adapts to variation in temperature, atmospheric CO 2 concentration, and further environmental factors, that change along elevation gradients, is not precisely known. With gas exchange measurements in mature trees, we determined light-saturated net photosynthesis at ambient temperature (T) and [CO 2 ] (A sat ) of 40 tree species from 21 families in tropical mountain forests at 1000-, 2000-, and 3000-m elevation in southern Ecuador. We tested the hypothesis that stand-level averages of A sat and leaf dark respiration (R D ) per leaf area remain constant with elevation. Stand-level means of A sat were 8.8, 11.3, and 7.2 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 ; those of R D 0.8, 0.6, and 0.7 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 at 1000-, 2000-, and 3000-m elevation, respectively, with no significant altitudinal trend. We obtained coefficients of among-species variation in A sat and R D of 2053% (n = 1016 tree species per stand). Examining our data in the context of a pan-tropical A sat base for maturedata tropical trees (c. 170 species from 18 sites at variable elevation) revealed that area-based A sat decreases in tropical mountains by, on average, 1.3 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 per km altitude increase (or by 0.2 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 per K temperature decrease). The A sat decrease occurred despite an increase in leaf mass per area with altitude. Local geological and soil fertility conditions are related foliar N and P concentrations considerably influenced the altitudinal A sat patterns. We conclude that elevation is an important influencing factor of the photosynthetic activity of tropical trees. Lowered A sat together with a reduced stand leaf area decrease canopy C gain with elevation in tropical mountains.
3659042|In western Oregon, forest ecosystem processes are greatly affected by patterns of stand replacement disturbance. A spatially explicit characterization of clear-cut logging and wildfire is a prerequisite to understanding the causes and consequences of disturbance in this region. We analyzed stand replacement disturbance over 4.6 million forested hectares of three major provinces in western Oregon between 1972 and 1995, contrasting the relative amounts of wildfire and harvest in each province and comparing harvest statistics among the dominant land ownership categories. Clear-cut harvest and wildfire occurred over 19.9% and 0.7% of the study area, respectively. The moist Coast Range Province (CRP) was dominated by private industrial (PI) ownerships and had the greatest concentration of cutting. The relatively dry Klamath Mountains Province (KMP) and the climatically moderate Western Cascades Province (WCP) were dominated by public landowners and had lower concentrations of cutting and larger amounts of wildfire than the CRP. Rates of harvest over time generally followed similar trends across landowners; it was lowest in the early 1970s, peaked in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and then decreased to near 1970s levels by the mid-1990s. PI landowners had harvest rates that were about two and one-half times as high as public owners throughout the study period. Public and private nonindustrial (PNI) owners tended to have relatively small cutting units that remained spatially dispersed throughout the study period, whereas the PI owners had larger individual cutting units that tended toward spatial aggregation over time. Comparing the managed disturbance regimes with historical wild disturbance regimes can help us to understand the relative impact of management regimes on ecosystems.
40296413|Deadwood is an important component for conserving carbon stock and maintaining species diversity. Scarce information is, at present, available concerning the amount and composition of deadwood in Mediterranean-type ecosystems. In this study, 21 sites were chosen to characterize different forest types among representative managed and unmanaged stands in the Central Apennines (Molise, Italy). Data were collected to assess living tree and deadwood volumes, and the relative abundance of different deadwood components in decay classes. The information gathered was related to human-induced disturbances on a regional scale. There were substantial differences in the deadwood volumes between managed and unmanaged stands, although this was not the case in the living tree volumes. Deadwood volumes were larger in unmanaged than in managed stands. In particular, large amounts of deadwood were found in managed Mediterranean and Anatolian fir forests, probably due to minimal management practices. Dead downed trees were less represented in managed forests as they are normally removed to facilitate logging activities. Logs occurred more frequently in managed stands as logging residues left on site. Most deadwood material belonged to early decay classes. Proportionally larger amounts of deadwood ascribed to class 1 in managed stands correlated with recent cutting activities. The relatively large amounts of deadwood attributed in unmanaged stands to class 3 demonstrate its longer persistence in unmanaged forests. This study represents a first systematic analysis of deadwood occurrence in a typical Mediterranean forest area, and should be useful in defining important objectives for sustainable forest management.
41505996|We investigated the influence of rainfall attributes on litter decomposition over an 8-year period in a well-preserved tropical dry forest ecosystem in western Mexico. We examined the relationship between the size and number of rainfall events and rainy-season litter decomposition rates and determined if this relationship varied along a landscape gradient. A mass balance approach was used to estimate decomposition rate in four permanent 2,400 m plots located in two small watersheds. Watershed I included three plots in different landscape positions (upper, middle, and lower) in the elevation gradient, whereas Watershed IV included one plot in the middle position. Surface litter C mass was lower in the rainy than in the dry season in all plots in response to seasonal fluctuations in rainfall. The frequency of small ( 5 mm) and medium (5.1-9.9 mm) size rainfall events largely did not correlate with litter decomposition, but the frequency of large events (10 mm) had a positive correlation with decomposition rates (P < 0.05), except in plot IV (P < 0.1). Decomposition rates were similar among plots at the different landscape positions within Watershed I (P > 0.05). The relevance of large rainfall events (10 mm) in rainyseason litter decomposition suggests that changes in the precipitation regime which alter the frequency of these rainfall pulses or increase their variability would affect the vulnerability of the litter C and nutrient pools to extreme events.
40296415|Massive anthropogenic acceleration of the global nitrogen (N) cycle has stimulated interest in understanding the fate of excess N loading to aquatic ecosystems. Nitrate (NO) is traditionally thought to be removed mainly by microbial respiratory denitrification coupled to carbon (C) oxidation, or through biomass assimilation. Alternatively, chemolithoautotrophic bacterial metabolism may remove NO by coupling its reduction with the oxidation of sulfide to sulfate (SO). The NO may be reduced to N or to NH , a form of dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA). The objectives of this study were to investigate the importance of S oxidation as a NO removal process across diverse freshwater streams, lakes, and wetlands in southwestern Michigan (USA). Simultaneous NO removal and SO production were observed in situ using modified "push-pull" methods in nine streams, nine wetlands, and three lakes. The measured SO production can account for a significant fraction (25-40%) of the overall NO removal. Addition of 15 NO and measurement of 15 NH production using the push-pull method revealed that DNRA was a potentially important process of NO removal, particularly in wetland sediments. Enrichment cultures suggest that Thiomicrospira denitriflcans may be one of the organisms responsible for this metabolism. These results indicate that NO-driven SO production could be widespread and biogeochemically important in freshwater sediments. Removal of NO by DNRA may not ameliorate problems such as eutrophication because the N remains bio-available. Additionally, if sulfur (S) pollution enhances NO removal in freshwaters, then controls on N processing in landscapes subject to S and N pollution are more complex than previously appreciated.
25053847|The amount, chemical composition, and source of dissolved organic carbon (DOC), together with in situ ultraviolet (UV-B) attenuation, were measured at 1-2 week intervals throughout the summers of 1999, 2000, and 2001 at four sites in Rocky Mountain National Park (Colorado). Eight additional sites, four in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Park/John Muir Wilderness (California) and four in Glacier National Park (Montana), were sampled during the summer of 2000. Attenuation of UV-B was significantly related to DOC concentrations over the three years in Rocky Mountain
40603614|The seasonality of pan-tropical wet forests has been highlighted by recent remote sensing and eddy flux measurements that have recorded both increased and sustained dry-season gross primary productivity (GPP). These observations suggest that wet tropical forests are primarily light limited and that the mechanisms for resilience to drought and projected climate change must be considered in ecosystem model development. Here we investigate two proposed mechanisms for drought resilience of tropical forests, deep soil water access and the seasonality of phenology, using the LPJmL Dynamic Global Vegetation Model. We parameterize a new seasonal phenology module for tropical evergreen trees using remotely sensed leaf area index (LAI) and incoming solar radiation data from the Terra Earth Observing System. Simulations are evaluated along a gradient of dry-season length (DSL) in South America against MODIS GPP estimates. We show that deep soil water access is critical for maintaining dry-season GPP, whereas implementing a seasonal LAI did not enhance simulated dry-season GPP. The Farquhar-Collatz photosynthesis scheme used in LPJmL optimizes leaf nitrogen allocation according to light conditions, causing maximum photosynthetic capacity in the dry season. High LAI, characteristic of tropical forests, also dampens the seasonal amplitude of the fraction of photosynthetically active radiation (FPAR). Given the relatively high uncertainty in tropical phenology observations and their corresponding proximate drivers, we recommend that ecosystem model development focus on belowground processes. An improved representation of soil depths and rooting distributions is necessary for modeling the dynamics of dry-season tropical forest functioning and may have important impacts for modeling tropical forest vulnerability to climate change.
3658715|Forest growth is important both economically (yielding billions of dollars of annual revenues) and ecologically (with respect to ecosystem health and global carbon budgets). The growth of all forests follows a predictable general trend with age. In young forests, it accelerates as canopies develop; it then declines substantially soon after full canopy leaf area is reached. The classic explanation for the decline in growth invoked the increasing respiration costs required to sustain the larger masses of wood characteristic of older forests. Direct measurements of respiration have largely refuted this hypothesis, and recent work has focused on stand-level rates of resource supply, resource use, and growth. We developed and tested a hypothesis at the scale of individual trees (in relation to stand structure) to explain this declining stand-level rate of stem growth. According to our hypothesis, changes in stand structure allow dominant trees to sustain high rates of growth by increasing their acquisition of resources and using these resources efficiently (defined as stem growth per unit of resource used); smaller, nondominant trees grow more slowly as a result of their more limited acquisition of resources and a reduced rate of growth per unit of resource acquired. In combination, these two trends reduce overall stand growth. We tested this hypothesis by comparing growth, growth per unit of leaf area, and variation among trees within plots in two series of plantations of Eucalyptus in Brazil and by estimating individual-tree rates of growth and use of light, water, and nutrients in a plantation of Eucalyptus saligna in Hawaii. Our results supported the individual-tree hypothesis. We conclude that part of the universal age-related decline in forest growth derives from competition-related changes in stand structure and the resource-use efficiencies of individual trees.
3658890|Black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP) is the most dominant forest ecosystem in the North American boreal region. There are at least two contrasting boreal black spruce forest communities: open-canopy black spruce overstory with Sphagnum ground cover (BSSP) and closed-canopy black spruce overstory with feathermoss ground cover (BSFM). The objectives of this study were (a) to compare net primary production (NPP) and light-use efficiency (LUE) for the two contrasting black spruce communities, and (b) to quantify the contribution of different vegetation strata (bryophytes, understory, overstory, and belowground) to total NPP and LUE in a mature black spruce forest stand in central Saskatchewan, Canada. Total NPP for the BSFM community
23501302|Soil organic carbon (soil C) sequestration in forests is often higher under nitrogen (N 2 )-fixing than under non-N 2 -fixing tree species. Here, we examined whether soil C could be increased using mixed-species plantations compared to monocultures, which are less productive aboveground than mixtures. In addition, we compared soil C sequestration under N 2 -fixing trees with non-N 2 -fixing trees that received N fertilizer. Monocultures of Eucalyptus globulus (E) and the N 2 -fixing Acacia mearnsii (A) and mixtures of these species were planted in a replacement series: 100%E, 75%E + 25%A, 50%E + 50%A, 25%E + 75%A and 100%A. Soil samples were also collected from fertilized monoculture treatments (100%EFer) of E. globulus (250 kg N ha -1 ). Total organic C, N and phosphorus were determined at age 8 years at two soil depths (010 cm and 1030 cm) and three density fractions of soil organic matter (SOM) were quantified for 05 cm depth. Soil C was highest in the 50%E + 50%A mixed stand and was highly correlated with aboveground biomass, not to the percentage of A. mearnsii in mixtures. This was largely due to soil C at 1030 cm because there were no treatment effects on soil C at 010 cm. All density fractions of SOM at 05 cm increased with the percentage of A. mearnsii. In E. globulus monocultures, N fertilization did not increase soil C when compared with unfertilized stands. These results indicate that the inclusion of N 2 -fixing trees into eucalypt plantations may increase soil C stocks through increased productivity.
3659057|Urban ecological systems are characterized by complex interactions between the natural environment and humans at multiple scales; for an individual urban ecosystem, the strongest interactions may occur at the local or regional spatial scale. At the regional scale, external ecosystems produce resources that are acquired and transported by humans to urban areas, where they are processed and consumed. The assimilation of diffuse human wastes and pollutants also occurs at the regional scale, with much of this process occurring external to the urban system. We developed the urban funnel model to conceptualize the integration of humans into their ecological context. The model captures this pattern and process of resource appropriation and waste generation by urban ecosystems at various spatial scales. This model is applied to individual cities using a modification of traditional ecological footprint (EF) analysis that is spatially explicit; the incorporation of spatial heterogeneity in calculating the EF greatly improves its accuracy. The method for EF analysis can be further modified to ensure that a certain proportion of potential ecosystem services are left for in situ processes. Combining EF models of human appropriation with ecosystem process models would help us to learn more about the effects of ecosystem service appropriation. By comparing the results for food and water, we were able to identify some of the potentially limiting ecological factors for cities. A comparison of the EFs for the 20 largest US cities showed the importance of urban location and interurban competition for ecosystem services. This study underscores the need to take multiple scales and spatial heterogeneity into consideration to expand our current understanding of human-ecosystem interactions. The urban funnel model and the spatially heterogeneous EF provide an effective means of achieving this goal.
25622875|The effects of experimental nitrogen (N) additions (0, 12.5, and 50 kg N ha Y) on long-term (12 years) understorey vegetation dynamics were examined in a boreal forest. The results showed that two types of natural enemies of the dominant dwarf-shrub Vaccinium myrtillus (pathogenic fungs of the species Valdensia heterodoxa and herbivorous larvae of the genus Operophtera) influenced the vegetation dynamics. The pathogenic fungus, causing premature leaf-shed of V. myrtillus, showed a strong positive N response during the initial 5-year period. For the larvae, a relatively modest N response was overshadowed by an almost 40-fold population increase during an outbreak event that followed the initial 5-year period. This outbreak occurred irrespective of N addition, resulting in V. myrtillus decline and depriving the pathogenic fungus of its substrate. Hence our study demonstrates that vegetation dynamics in this relatively species poor and seemingly simple ecosystem are driven by complex biotic interactions. Further, we show that an important component of these interactions is the temporal alternation of the two natural enemies and, resultant regulation of the dominant plant's abundance. Finally, we emphasize that long-term data are essential to capture the complexity of this type of biotic interactions. In our case, a short-term study may have resulted in markedly different conclusions regarding effects of N enrichment and the role of biotic interactions for forest vegetation dynamics.
3658682|The objectives of this study were to understand the ecological processes and possible management strategies in desertified shrublands. We hypothesized that biological production and diversity in desertified shrublands in the Negev in Israel are low due to water, soil, and nutrient leakage from the ecosystem. We designed a series of field experiments in order to examine (a) whether source-sink relationships exist between the crusted soil and the shrub patches, (b) whether resources (water, soil, and nutrients) leak from the system, and (c) whether management, which changes the landscape mosaic by introducing new sink patches that reduce leakage of resources, may increase productivity and diversity. The results indicate that the low number of shrub patches, which serve as sinks for resources, leads to water, soil, and nutrient leakage from the ecosystem. This leakage reduces ecosystem production and diversity. We found that artificially created pits, which act as sinks for resources, decrease leakage and increase biomass production and annual plant species diversity. Based on the experimental results, we developed conceptual models for shrubland desertification and ecosystem management. The models are based on a source-sink relationship between two patch types characteristic of shrublands. The models relate landscape productivity to the number of sink patches and suggest that, in cases where there are too few sinks, artificially created sink patches should be added. Management methods were developed to reduce resource leakage in the desertified shrubland of the Negev. Methods included construction of man-made pits in the landscape that add resource-enriched patches to the landscape. These patches are used to create parks consisting of clusters of trees integrated into a matrix of shrubs and herbaceous vegetation. The managed parks are used for recreational purposes and for rangeland.
41505905|Carbon (C) inputs and nutrient availability are known to affect soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks. However, general rules regarding the operation of these factors across a range of soil nutrient availabilities and substrate qualities are unidentified. "Priming" (stimulated decomposition by labile C inputs) and 'preferential substrate utilization' (retarded decomposition due to shifts in community composition towards microbes that do not mineralize SOC) are two hypotheses to explain effects of labile C additions on SOC dynamics. For effects of nutrient additions (nitrogen and phosphorus) on SOC dynamics, the stoichiometric (faster decomposition of materials of low carbon-to-nutrient ratios) and 'microbial mining' (that is, reduced breakdown of recalcitrant C forms for nutrients under fertile conditions) hypotheses have been proposed. Using the natural gradient of soil nutrient availability and substrate quality of a chronosequence, combined with labile C and nutrient amendments, we explored the support for these contrasting hypotheses. Additions of labile C, nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and combinations of C and N and C and P were applied to three sites: 2-year fallow grassland, mature grassland and forest, and the effects of site and nutrient additions on litter decomposition and soil C dynamics were assessed. The response to C addition supported the preferential substrate hypothesis for easily degradable litter C and the priming hypothesis for SOC, but only in nitrogen-enriched soils of the forest site. Responses to N addition supported the microbial mining hypothesis irrespective of C substrate (litter or SOC), but only in the forest site. Further, P addition effects on SOC support the stoichiometric hypothesis; P availability appeared key to soil C release (priming) in the forest site if labile C and N is available. These results clearly link previously contrasting hypotheses of the factors controlling SOC with the natural gradient in litter quality and nutrient availability that exists in ecosystems at different successional stages. A holistic theory that incorporates this variability of responses, due to different mechanisms, depending on nutrient availability and substrate quality is essential for devising management strategies to safeguard soil C stocks.
27823666|Primary productivity on old, weathered soils often is assumed to be limited by phosphorus (P), especially in the lowland tropics where climatic conditions promote the rapid depletion of rock-derived nutrients. This assumption is based on a static view of soils weathering in place with no renewal of the bedrock source. In reality, advection of material through the soil column introduces a spatially variable supply of rock-derived nutrients. This flux is dependent on the residence time of soil, which can range from a few hundred years in rapidly uplifting collisional mountain belts to tens of millions of years in tectonically quiescent tropical cratons. We modeled the effects of tectonic uplift, erosion, and soil depth on the advection of P through the soil column and P availability, calibrating rate of change in biologically available P over time with data from two basaltic chronosequences in Hawai'i and a series of greywacke terraces in New Zealand. Combining our model with the global distribution of tectonic uplift rates and soil depths, we identified tectonic settings that are likely to support P-depleted ecosystemsassuming that tectonic uplift and erosion are balanced (that is, landscape development has reached steady state). The model captures the occurrence of transient P limitation in rapidly uplifting young ecosystems where mineral weathering is outpaced by physical erosiona likely occurrence where biological N fixation is important. However, we calculate that P depletion is unlikely in areas of moderate uplift, such as most of Central America and Southeast Asia, due to the continuous advection of P into the rooting zone. Finally, where soil advection is slow, such as the Amazon Basin, we expect widespread P depletion in the absence of exogenous nutrient inputs.
25470381|Disturbed grassland soils are often cited as having the potential to store large amounts of carbon (C). Fertilization of grasslands can promote soil C storage, but little is known about the generation of recalcitrant pools of soil organic matter (SOM) with management treatments, which is critical for long-term soil C storage. We used a combination of soil incubations, size fractionation and acid hydrolysis of SOM, [C], [N], and stable isotopic analyses, and biomass quality indices to examine how fertilization and haying can impact SOM dynamics in Kansan grassland soils. Fertilized soils possessed 113% of the C possessed by soils subjected to other treatments, an increase predominantly harbored in the largest size fraction (212-2,000 m). This fraction is frequently associated with more labile material. Haying and fertilization/haying, treatments that more accurately mimic true management techniques, did not induce any increase in soil C. The difference in N-enrichment between size fractions was consistent with a decoupling of SOM processing between pools with fertilization, congruent with gains of SOM in the largest size fraction promoted by fertilization not moving readily into smaller fractions that frequently harbor more recalcitrant material. Litterfall and root biomass C inputs increased 104% with fertilization over control plots, and this material possessed lower C:N ratios. Models of incubation mineralization kinetics indicate that fertilized soils have larger pools of labile organic C. Model estimates of turnover rates of the labile and recalcitrant C pools did not differ between treatments (65.5  7.2 and 2.9  0.3 g C d, respectively). Although fertilization may promote greater organic inputs into these soils, much of that material is transformed into relatively labile forms of soil C; these data highlight the challenges of managing grasslands for long-term soil C sequestration.
25622869|A positive feedback between submerged vegetation and water clarity forms the backbone of the alternative state theory in shallow lakes. The water clearing effect of aquatic vegetation may be caused by different physical, chemical, and biological mechanisms and has been studied mainly in temperate lakes. Recent work suggests differences in biotic interactions between (sub)tropical and cooler lakes might result in a less pronounced clearing effect in the (sub)tropics. To assess whether the effect of submerged vegetation changes with climate, we sampled 83 lakes over a gradient ranging from the tundra to the tropics in South America. Judged from a comparison of water clarity inside and outside vegetation beds, the vegetation appeared to have a similar positive effect on the water clarity across all climatic regions studied. However, the local clearing effect of vegetation decreased steeply with the contribution of humic substances to the underwater light attenuation. Looking at turbidity on a whole-lake scale, results were more difficult to interpret. Although lakes with abundant vegetation (>30%) were generally clear, sparsely vegetated lakes differed widely in clarity. Overall, the effect of vegetation on water clarity in our lakes appears to be smaller than that found in various Northern hemisphere studies. This might be explained by differences in fish communities and their relation to vegetation. For instance, unlike in Northern hemisphere studies, we find no clear relation between vegetation coverage and fish abundance or their diet preference. High densities of omnivorous fish and coinciding low grazing pressures on phytoplankton in the (sub)tropics may, furthermore, weaken the effect of vegetation on water clarity.
3658687|We studied the aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) of wheat crops in the Argentine Pampas. Our specific objectives were to determine (a) the response of ANPP to changes in water availability (b) the regional patterns of ANPP and (c) the interannual variability and environmental controls of ANPP. We used ground and satellite data to address these questions. Wheat ANPP was calculated as the ratio between grain yield and harvest index. We developed a simple model that took into account environmental and genetic improvement effects upon harvest index. We used the normalized difference vegetational index (NDVI) as a surrogate for ANPP at the county level. Straight-line regression models were fitted to single-year and average values of ANPP and precipitation to derive temporal and spatial models for wheat. For grasslands, we used spatial and temporal models already published. At any given site, there was no difference between modeled wheat and grassland average ANPP. The response of ANPP to changes in interannual water availability decreased along the precipitation gradient when vegetation structure (for example, species composition, density, and total cover) was held constant (wheat crops). Wheat ANPP and total production variability, estimated from remotely sensed data, decreased as mean annual precipitation (MAP) increased. The percentage of soils without drainage problems was the variable that explained most of the wheat ANPP spatial variability as shown by stepwise linear regression. Precipitation variability accounted for 49% of wheat ANPP variability. Remotely sensed estimates of ANPP variability showed lower and wheat ANPP higher temporal variability than annual precipitation.
40793011|Ecological functions of bioturbation in ecosystems have received increasing attention over the recent decades, and crab burrowing has been considered as one of the major bioturbations affecting the physical and chemical processes in salt marshes. This study assessed the integrated effects of crab excavating and burrow mimic trapping on sediment turnover and vertical and N distributions in a Chinese salt marsh in the Yangtze River estuary. Crab burrowing increased soil water content and the turnover of carbon and nitrogen and decreased bulk soil density. Vertical movement of materials, nutrient cycling and reuse driven by crab burrowing might be obstructed by vegetation (Phragmites australis and Spartina alterniflora communities). The amount of soil excavated by crab burrowing was higher than that deposited into burrow mimics. In Phragmites marshes, Spartina marshes and unvegetated mudflats, net transport of soil to the marsh surface was 171.73, 109.54, and 374.95 g m d , respectively; and the corresponding estimated soil turnover time was 2.89, 4.07 and 1.83 years, respectively. Crab burrowing in salt marshes can mix surface and deeper soil over a period of years, accelerating litter decomposition and promoting the efficient reuse of nutrients by plants. Therefore, bioturbation affects soil physical processes and functioning of ecosystems, and needs to be addressed in ecosystem management.
23501298|Climate change is expected to affect forest landscape dynamics in many ways, but it is possible that the most important direct impact of climate change will be drought stress. We combined data from weather stations and forest inventory plots (FIA) across the upper Great Lakes region (USA) to study the relationship between measures of drought stress and mortality for four drought sensitivity species groups using a weight-of-evidence approach. For all groups, the model that predicted mortality as a function of mean drought length had the greatest plausibility. Model tests confirmed that the models for all groups except the most drought tolerant had predictive value. We assumed that no relationship exists between drought and mortality for the drought-tolerant group. We used these empirical models to develop a drought extension for the forest landscape disturbance and succession model LANDIS-II, and applied the model in Oconto county, Wisconsin (USA) to assess the influence of drought on forest dynamics relative to other factors such as stand-replacing disturbance and site characteristics. The simulations showed that drought stress does affect species composition and total biomass, but effects on age classes, spatial pattern, and productivity were insignificant. We conclude that (for the upper Midwest) (1) a drought-induced tree mortality signal can be detected using FIA data, (2) tree species respond primarily to the length of drought events rather than their severity, (3) the differences in drought tolerance of tree species can be quantified, (4) future increases in drought can potentially change forest composition, and (5) drought is a potentially important factor to include in forest dynamics simulations because it affects forest composition and carbon storage.
41505913|We report on soil leaching of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) along transects across exposed edges of four coniferous and four deciduous forest stands. In a 64-m edge zone, DIN leaching below the main rooting zone was enhanced relative to the interior (at 128 m from the edge) by 21 and 14 kg N ha y in the coniferous and deciduous forest stands, respectively. However, the patterns of DIN leaching did not univocally reflect those of DIN throughfall deposition. DIN leaching in the first 20 m of the edges was lower than at 32-64 m from the edge (17 vs. 36 kg N ha y and 15 vs. 24 kg N ha y in the coniferous and deciduous forests, respectively). Nitrogen stocks in the mineral topsoil (0-30 cm) were, on average, 943 kg N ha higher at the outer edges than in the interior, indicating that N retention in the soil is probably one of the processes involved in the relatively low DIN leaching in the outer edges. We suggest that a complex of edge effects on biogeochemical processes occurs at the forest edges as a result of the interaction between microclimate, tree dynamics (growth and litterfall), and atmospheric deposition of N and base cations.
40296317|Plants across diverse biomes tend to produce smaller leaves and a reduced total leaf area when exposed to drought. For mature trees of a single species, however, the leaf areawater supply relationship is not well understood. We tested the paradigm of leaf area reduction upon drought by a transect study with 14 mature Fagus sylvatica forests along a steep precipitation gradient (970-520 mm y) by applying two independent methods of leaf size determination. Contrary to expectation, average leaf size in dry stands (520550 mm y) was about 40% larger and SLA was higher than in moist stands (910-970 mm y). As a result of increased leaf sizes, leaf area index significantly increased from the high-to the low-precipitation stands. Multiple regression analyses suggested that average leaf size was primarily controlled by temperature, whereas the influence of soil moisture and soil C/N ratio was low. Summer rainfall of the preceding year was the most significant predictor of total leaf number. We assume that leaf expansion of beech was independent of water supply, because it takes place in May with ample soil water reserves along the entire transect. In contrast, bud formation, which determines total leaf number, occurs in mid-summer, when droughts are severest. We conclude that leaf expansion and stand leaf area oi beech along this precipitation gradient are not a simple function of water availability, but are controlled by several abiotic factors including spring temperature and possibly also nitrogen supply, which both tend to increase toward drier sites, thus overlaying any negative effect of water shortage on leaf development.
3658792|Here we report measurements of organic and inorganic nitrogen (N) fluxes from the high-elevation Green Lakes Valley catchment in the Colorado Front Range for two snowmelt seasons (1998 and 1999). Surface water and soil samples were collected along an elevational gradient extending from the lightly vegetated alpine to the forested subalpine to assess how changes in land cover and basin area affect yields and concentrations of ammonium-N ( NH
3658784|The movement of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) through soils is an important process for the transport of carbon within ecosystems and the formation of soil organic matter. In some cases, DOC fluxes may also contribute to the carbon balance of terrestrial ecosystems; in most ecosystems, they are an important source of energy, carbon, and nutrient transfers from terrestrial to aquatic ecosystems. Despite their importance for terrestrial and aquatic biogeochemistry, these fluxes are rarely represented in conceptual or numerical models of terrestrial biogeochemistry. In part, this is due to the lack of a comprehensive understanding of the suite of processes that control DOC dynamics in soils. In this article, we synthesize information on the geochemical and biological factors that control DOC fluxes through soils. We focus on conceptual issues and quantitative evaluations of key process rates to present a general numerical model of DOC dynamics. We then test the sensitivity of the model to variation in the controlling parameters to highlight both the significance of DOC fluxes to terrestrial carbon processes and the key uncertainties that require additional experiments and data. Simulation model results indicate the importance of representing both root carbon inputs and soluble carbon fluxes to predict the quantity and distribution of soil carbon in soil layers. For a test case in a temperate forest, DOC contributed 25% of the total soil profile carbon, whereas roots provided the remainder. The analysis also shows that physical factors-most notably, sorption dynamics and hydrology-play the dominant role in regulating DOC losses from terrestrial ecosystems but that interactions between hydrology and microbial-DOC relationships are important in regulating the fluxes of DOC in the litter and surface soil horizons. The model also indicates that DOC fluxes to deeper soil layers can support a large fraction (up to 30%) of microbial activity below 40 cm.
40603622|Peatland-margin habitats with organic matter accumulation of 40-150 cm make up a significant but poorly quantified portion of Canada's boreal forest region. Spanning the transition between non-wetland forest and fen proper, these ecosystems represent a zone of complex environmental and vegetation change, yet little is known about their ecological function or development. We here use vegetation and macrofossil analysis, traditional C, bomb-spike C, and Pb dating to investigate the development, organic matter accumulation, and recent vegetation history of peat margin communities at two sites in central Saskatchewan, Canada. Although similar in general shape, bomb-spike C and Pb chronologies show limited agreement in three of the four profiles examined, with Pb generally producing younger ages than C. Peat initiation and long-term organic matter accumulation at the Old Black Spruce (OBS) transect were probably by the dynamics of Sphagnum, whereas at the Sandhill Fen (SF) transect, they were controlled by water level fluctuations in the neighboring fen. Bryophyte macrofossils suggest a recent drying of the vegetation surface at both sites, most likely triggered by regional drought in the late 1950s and 1960s. At OBS, the shift from Sphagnum-to feather moss-dominated communities continued in the 1990s, possibly reflecting effects of direct disturbance on local drainage patterns. Overall, our results suggest that community composition and C dynamics of peat-margin swamps respond dynamically to climatic and hydrologie fluctuations. However, uncertainties regarding the reliability of different chronologies limit our ability to link observed community changes to specific causal events.
25053879|Riparian zones associated with alluvial rivers are spatially dynamic, forming distinct vegetative mosaics that exhibit sharp contrasts in structure and processes related to the underlying biophysical template. The productivity of riparian plants, especially trees, influences streamside community characteristics as well as the forms and fluxes of organic matter to adjacent streams - thereby strongly impacting patterns of channel morphology, water flow, sedimentation, and habitat in rivers. As part of a comprehensive investigation of riparian dynamics in coastal rain forest rivers of the Pacific Northwest (USA), we examined riparian tree abundance (density, basal area, and biomass) and rates of production (basal area growth [BAI] and bole wood biomass increase [P]) of seven common species - red alder (Alnus rubra), Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis), bigleaf maple (Acer macrophyllum), western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla), black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa), vine maple (Acer circinatum) and willow (Salix spp.) - in the lowland floodplain of the Queets River (Olympic National Park), Washington. Measurements were made annually for three years (1999 - 2001) in 16 permanent plots on three biophysical templates that formed a toposequence - active floodplain, young terrace and mature terrace. Stem density was highest in the active floodplain (27,000 stems/ ha), decreasing in the young terrace (2,700 stems /ha) and the mature terrace (500 stems/ha). Basal area and total stem biomass were lowest in the active floodplain (16
43677501|The natural abundance of nitrogen (N) stable isotopes (N) has the potential to enhance our understanding of the ecosystem N cycle at large spatial scales. However, vegetation and soil N patterns along climatic and edaphic gradients have not yet been fully understood, particularly for highaltitude ecosystems. Here we determined vegetation and soil N in alpine grasslands on the Tibetan Plateau by conducting four consecutive regional surveys during 2001-2004, and then examined their relationships with both climatic and edaphic variables. Our results showed that both vegetation and soil N in Tibetan alpine grasslands were more N-enriched than global averages. Vegetation N did not exhibit any significant trend along the temperature gradient, but decreased significantly with an increase in precipitation amount. In contrast, soil N did not vary with either mean annual temperature or precipitation. Our results also indicated that soil (N exhibited a slight increase with day content, but decreased with soil carboninitrogen ratio. A general linear model analysis revealed that variations in vegetation N were dominantly determined by climatic variables, whereas soil N was related to edaphic variables. These results provide clues for potential climatic and edaphic regulations on ecosystem N cycle in these high-altitude regions.
23501502|In aquatic systems, light and subsidy input often co-vary along a canopy cover gradient. This creates systems where subsidies are more prevalent in areas with low primary productivity and less prevalent in areas with high primary productivity. We expect ecosystem processes and community structure to respond to these changes in resources. We examined the effects of light and subsidy input (leaf litter) on ponds by placing pond mesocosms along a canopy gradient and manipulating litter input. We then sampled mesocosms for ecosystem and community parameters for 2 years during April (pre-leaf out), July (full canopy), and November (start of leaf fall). Neither canopy cover nor litter input tended to dominate effects overall, highlighting the importance of the light-subsidy gradient combination that is frequently encountered in temperate aquatic systems. Ponds shifted from an autotrophy/heterotrophy balance to net heterotrophy with increasing canopy cover in concordance with our predictions. Although litter input affected dissolved oxygen, we did not detect an effect of litter on trophic state, primary production, or community respiration. We additionally found effects of both canopy cover and litter input on community composition, but very differently than that found in streams. In general, the grazer and shredder macroinvertebrate functional feeding groups were rare in the pond mesocosms, and thus did not respond to treatments. The collector proportion of the community, mainly chironomids, increased with canopy cover and was higher in mesocosms with litter input than those without. Contrary to predictions, there were few differences between subsidy input type (leaves or grass) despite differences in litter quality. This study, along with many others, highlights the importance of canopy gradients in determining ecosystem function and community composition.
27823730|The ecosystems of coastal and enclosed seas are under increasing anthropogenic pressure worldwide, with Chesapeake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico and the Black and Baltic Seas as well known examples. We use an ecosystem model (Ecopath with Ecosim, EwE) to show that reduced top-down control (seal predation) and increased bottom-up forcing (eutrophication) can largely explain the historical dynamics of the main fish stocks (cod, herring and sprat) in the Baltic Sea between 1900 and 1980. Based on these results and the historical fish stock development we identify two major ecological transitions. A shift from seal to cod domination was caused by a virtual elimination of marine mammals followed by a shift from an oligotrophic to a eutrophic state. A third shift from cod to clupeid domination in the late 1980s has previously been explained by overfishing of cod and climatic changes. We propose that the shift from an oligotrophic to a eutrophic state represents a true regime shift with a stabilizing mechanism for a hysteresis phenomenon. There are also mechanisms that could stabilize the shift from a cod to clupeid dominated ecosystem, but there are no indications that the ecosystem has been pushed that far yet. We argue that the shifts in the Baltic Sea are a consequence of human impacts, although variations in climate may have influenced their timing, magnitude and persistence.
43677496|Palsa peatlands, permafrost-affected peatlands characteristic of the outer margin of the discontinuous permafrost zone, form unique ecosystems in northern-boreal and arctic regions, but are now degrading throughout their distributional range due to climate warming. Permafrost thaw and the degradation of palsa mounds are likely to affect the biogeochemical stability of soil organic matter (that is, SOM resistance to microbial decomposition), which may change the net C source/sink character of paisa peatland ecosystems. In this study, we have assessed both biological and chemical proxies for SOM stability, and we have investigated SOM bulk chemistry with mid-infrared spectroscopy, in surface peat of three distinct peatland features in a paisa peatland in northern Norway. Our results show that the stability of SOM in surface peat as determined by both biological and chemical proxies is consistently higher in the permafrost-associated paisa mounds than in the surrounding internal lawns and bog hummocks. Our results also suggest that differences in SOM bulk chemistry is a main factor explaining the present SOM stability in surface peat of palsa peatlands, with selective preservation of recalcitrant and highly oxidized SOM components in the active layer of palsa mounds during intense aerobic decomposition over time, whereas SOM in the wetter areas of the peatland remains stabilized mainly by anaerobic conditions. The continued degradation of paisa mounds and the expansion of wetter peat areas are likely to modify the bulk SOM chemistry of paisa peatlands, but the effect on the future net C source/sink character of paisa peatlands will largely depend on moisture conditions and oxygen availability in peat.
27823769|A series of recent high-profile papers in Science and Nature have led readers to believe that most fisheries worldwide are overexploited and that current fisheries management practices have universally failed. In reality, current fisheries management is working well to achieve the legislated objective of MSY in some countries but is failing in others. Here, I present three interpretations about the status of fisheries management that are widely accepted and for each consider an alternative interpretation of the data. I propose that, rather than abandoning current approaches to fisheries management, we should expand the use of the management tools used in fisheries that currently achieve biological and economic sustainability.
25053812|Scenarios can help planners and decision makers to think through uncertainties about the future and make decisions that are robust to a variety of possible outcomes. To develop useful scenarios we need to understand the main processes of relevance to the system of interest. Ecological processes, and the feedbacks that they can create between human actions and human well-being, are thought to be important for human societies. Current uncertainties over the long-term resilience of ecosystems and the substitutability of ecosystem goods and services can be translated into three alternative realities: ecosystems may be relatively brittle, relatively resilient, or largely irrelevant. Although these extremes are only rough characterizations of reality, they help us to focus our thinking about the possible outcomes of interactions between humans and the rest of the biosphere. Existing global scenarios can be categorized into a small number of families based on shared themes and assumptions about the future. Considering the internal consistency of four of the main scenario families in relation to the three alternative ecological realities suggests that all existing scenarios make strong, implicit assumptions about the resilience of ecosystems. After a detailed discussion of individual examples, we present a synthesis of the incorporation of ecology in existing scenarios. All current scenarios are inconsistent with at least one possible property of ecosystems and their likely interaction with society. The interrelationships between ecological reality, human views of ecosystems, and social responses to actual and perceived ecological change are complex. For the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment and future scenario exercises, we recommend that essential ecological assumptions should be made explicit to ensure that the details of each scenario are consistent with both the perceived and the actual degree of resilience of ecosystems.
41505920|Pelagic, littoral, and terrestrial resources can all play a role in supporting consumers in lakes. The role of benthic algal-derived food web pathways in lakes is perhaps the least understood because limnologists have historically focused on pelagic (open-water) production and processes. We compiled carbon stable isotope data from 546 fish populations (75 lakes), and used a two end-member mixing model to calculate littoral-benthic reliance for each fish species in each lake. Fish littoral-benthic reliance values were averaged by lake to assess overall fish species benthic reliance for each lake. Lake-specific mean littoral reliance (BR L ; fish species not weighted according to production or biomass) averaged 57% and was independent of lake morphological and limnological attributes. For these same lakes, water column nutrients, light, and morphometry data were used to estimate whole-lake benthic algal and phytoplankton primary production. On average, benthic algae comprised 36% of whole-lake primary production (BP f = 0.36). BP f and BR L were weakly correlated: BR L tends to be high even in large/deep lakes in which benthic algae is a minor contributor to whole-lake primary production. The high littoralbenthic contribution to individual fish species appears to reflect the high concentration of fish species diversity in the littoral zone. Our work cannot be extrapolated to whole-lake fish production. However, the result is consistent with other work indicating that most fish species inhabit the littoral zone, whereas relatively few exclusively inhabit the pelagic. Our results suggest that it takes less primary production to support a single fish species in the littoral zone than is required to support a species in the pelagic.
23328062|Management efforts to promote forest resiliency as climate changes have often used historical forest structure and composition to provide general guidance for fuels reduction and forest restoration treatments. However, it has been difficult to identify what stand conditions might be fire and drought resilient because historical data and reconstruction studies are generally limited to accurate estimates only of large, live tree density and composition. Other stand features such as smaller tree densities, dead wood, understory structure, regeneration, and fuel loads have been difficult to quantify, estimate how they may vary across a landscape, or assess how they would be affected by fire under current climate conditions. We sampled old-growth, mixed-conifer forests with at least two low-intensity fires within the last 65 years in 150 plots at 48 sample sites ranging over 400 km of the Sierra Nevada. Recent fire history had the strongest influence on understory conditions with small tree density decreasing and shrub cover increasing with the increased intensity and frequency of fire associated with upper-slope and ridge-top locations. In contrast, stand structures associated with large, overstory trees such as total basal area, canopy cover, and the abundance of large snags and logs increased in topographic locations associated with more mesic, productive sites regardless of fire history. In forests with restored fire regimes, topography, fire and their interaction influence productivity and burn intensity, creating the structural heterogeneity characteristic of frequent-fire forests.
40296278|In this 'perspectives' article, we share experiences gained from the century-old Kruger National Park (KNP) in South Africa to illustrate the dynamic complexity of biophysical and socio-political systems, the interactions that occur between them, and the consequences for ecosystem-scale functions and resources and for their management. As in KNP, the social-ecological milieu surrounding many national parks and protected areas is changing rapidly. There will be significant managerial adjustments as human populations grow and the needs for resources accelerate. The changes, driven largely by global-scale environmental shifts as well as by new knowledge, are intimately intertwined with evolving societal perceptions, values, and expectations. Many KNP resource-related issues of the past century originated more internally and were largely environmental, whereas the emerging issues are more external and largely social. Here, we illustrate how interrelated scientific and managerial advances in integrating biophysical and social systems are acting to conserve and rehabilitate resources within KNP, and to aid in their conservation. Where appropriate, we relate these advances to similar examples in the region or other protected areas in the world. Strategies to address emerging issues are identified and discussedand their combined effects on resource conservation and management are evaluated. In our experience the approach to conservation within KNP has been successful, despite well-intended but damaging management actions in the past. We believe that the perceived success stems from a willingness to continually incorporate new knowledge into management, to foster close working and personal associations among scientists, managers, and rangers, to acquire an intimate knowledge and understanding of the social-ecological system by the administrators as well as by the staff, and to be actively 'forward' thinking in an increasingly complex and uncertain world. We accept that many decisions taken today will be challenged by future managers and scientists, and we expect that some will be found wanting as emerging knowledge and continued learning shape future decisions. Further, evolving political, social, and environmental contexts may mean that protected areas will need to be managed in different ways. Therefore, we emphasize the importance of minimizing the permanency and impact of decisions so that today's actions do not compromise future decisions when meaningful changes need to be made.
3658861|Studies in temperate grassland ecosystems have shown that differences in composition of C
3658930|Bighorn Lake, a fishless alpine lake, was stocked with nonnative brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalis, in 1965 and 1966. The newly introduced trout rapidly eliminated the large crustaceans Hesperodiaptomus arcticus and Daphnia middendorffiana from the plankton. In July 1997, we began to remove the fish using gill nets. The population comprised 261 fish that averaged 214 g in wet weight and 273 mm in fork length. Thereafter, zooplankton abundance increased within weeks. Early increases were caused by the maturation of Diacyclops bicuspidatus, few of which reached copepodid stages before the removal of the fish because of fish predation. Daphnia middendorffiana, absent when fish were present, reappeared in 1998. Hesperodiaptomus arcticus, which had been eliminated by the stocked fish, did not return. The proportion of large zooplankton increased after fish removal, but their overall biomass did not change. Algal biomass was low and variable throughout the 1990s and correlated with water temperature but not with nutrient concentrations or grazer densities. Diatoms were the most abundant algal taxon in the lake, followed by Dinophyceae. Chrysophyceans and cryptophyceans were eliminated after the fish were removed. Chlorophyll a concentrations were unaffected. Gill netting is a viable fish eradication technique for smaller (less than 10 ha), shallow (less than 10 m deep) lakes that lack habitable inflows and outflows or other sensitive species. Further work is required to define appropriate removal methods for larger lakes and watersheds.
27823709|Wastelands are likely to host a significant part of urban floristic diversity but have received limited attention because they are not considered interesting green zones. Here, we explore the potential role of wastelands in maintaining urban biodiversity to help define effective urban management plans. We quantified floristic diversity in 98 wasteland sites of Hauts-de-Seine, one of the most densely populated areas in France, and characterized the environmental parameters and spatial distribution of sites to identify some of the factors that influence plant species composition and to explore the impact of urban environment on the floristic interest of wastelands. Their floristic richness represented 58% of the total richness observed in the whole study area. Site richness depended on site area (the largest sites were the richest) and site age, with a maximum in sites of intermediate age (413 years). In the largest sites only (>2,500 m2), the floristic distance among sites was positively correlated with geographic distance, which suggests that migration of species among large sites partly controls local floristic composition. In contrast, the environmental distance among sites was not correlated with floristic distance. Finally, we showed that the presence of collective and individual dwellings within 200 m of a wasteland decreased its floristic rarity, whereas the presence of rivers or ponds increased it. We derive several recommendations to optimize the management of wastelands with respect to conservation of urban biodiversity.
40296421|Research that connects ecosystem processes to genetic mechanisms has recently gained significant ground, yet actual studies that span the levels of organization from genes to ecosystems are extraordinarily rare. Utilizing foundation species from the genus Populus, in which the role of condensed tannins (CT) has been investigated aboveground, belowground, and in adjacent streams, we examine the diverse mechanisms for the expression of CT and the ecological consequences of CT for forests and streams. The wealth of data from this genus highlights the importance of form and function of CT in large-scale and long-term ecosystem processes and demonstrates the following four patterns: (1) plant- specific concentration of CT varies as much as fourfold among species and individual genotypes; (2) large within-plant variation in CT occurs due to ontogenetic stages (that is, juvenile and mature), tissue types (that is, leaves versus twigs) and phenotypic plasticity in response to the environment; (3) CT have little consistent effect on plant-herbivore interactions, excepting organisms utilizing woody tissues (that is, fungal endophytes and beaver), however; (4) CT in plants consistently slow rates of leaf litter decomposition (aquatic and terrestrial), alter the composition of heterotrophic soil communities (and some aquatic communities) and reduce nutrient availability in terrestrial ecosystems. Taken together, these data suggest that CT may play an underappreciated adaptive role in regulating nutrient dynamics in ecosystems. These results also demonstrate that a holistic perspective from genesto-ecosystems is a powerful approach for elucidating complex ecological interctions and their evolutionary implications
27823738|The importance of the spatial pattern of vegetation for hydrological behavior in semiarid environments is widely acknowledged. However, there is little empirical work testing the hypothetical covariation between vegetation spatial structure and hillslope water and sediment fluxes. We evaluated the relationships between vegetation structural attributes (spatial pattern, functional diversity), soil surface properties (crust, stone, plant, and ground cover, and particle size distribution) and hillslope hydrologic functioning in a semiarid Mediterranean landscape; in particular, we tested whether decreasing patch density or coarsening plant spatial pattern would increase runoff and sediment yield at the hillslope scale. Runoff and sediment yield were measured over a 45-month period on nine 8  2-m plots that varied in vegetation type and spatial pattern. We grouped vegetation into functional types and derived plant spatial pattern attributes from field plot maps processed through a GIS system. We found that there was an inverse relationship between patch density and runoff, and that both runoff and sediment yields increased as the spatial pattern of vegetation coarsened. Vegetation pattern attributes and plant functional diversity were better related to runoff and sediment yield than soil surface properties. However, a significant relationship was found between physical crust cover and plant spatial pattern. Our results present empirical evidence for the direct relationship between the hydrologic functioning of semiarid lands and both the spatial pattern and the functional diversity of perennial vegetation, and suggest that plant spatial pattern, physical crust cover, and functional diversity may be linked through feedback mechanisms.
23501437|Water availability is the dominant control of global terrestrial primary productivity with concurrent effects on evapotranspiration and ecosystem respiration, especially in water-limited ecosystems. Process-oriented ecosystem models are critical tools for understanding landatmosphere exchanges and for up-scaling this information to regional and global scales. Thus, it is important to understand how ecosystem models simulate ecosystem fluxes under changing weather conditions. Here, we applied both time-series analysis and meta-analysis techniques to study how five ecosystem process-oriented models-simulated gross primary production (GPP), ecosystem respiration (Reco), and evapotranspiration (ET). Ecosystem fluxes were simulated for 3 years at a daily time step from four evergreen and three deciduous Mediterranean oak woodlands (21 site-year measurements; 105 site-year-simulations). Mediterranean ecosystems are important test-beds for studying the interannual dynamics of soil moisture on ecosystem mass and energy exchange as they experience cool, wet winters with hot, dry summers and are typically subject to drought. Results show data-model disagreements at multiple temporal scales for GPP, Reco, and ET at both plant functional types. Overall there was a systematic underestimation of the temporal variation of Reco at both plant functional types at temporal scales between weeks and months, and an overestimation at the yearly scale. Modeled Reco was systematically overestimated during drought for all sites, but daily GPP was systematically underestimated only for deciduous sites during drought. In contrast, daily estimates of ET showed good data-model agreement even during drought conditions. This meta-analysis brings attention to the importance of drought conditions for modeling purposes in representing forest dynamics in water-limited ecosystems.
41507771|Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia) is a non-native riparian tree that has become common and continues to rapidly spread throughout the western United States. Due to its dinitrogen (N)-fixing ability and proximity to streams, Russian olive has the potential to subsidize stream ecosystems with nitrogen (N), which may in turn alter nutrient processing in these systems. We tested these potential effects by comparing background N concentrations; nutrient limitation of biofilms; and uptake of ammonium (NH-N), nitrate (NO-N), and phosphate (PO-P) in paired upstream-reference and downstream-invaded reaches in streams in southeastern Idaho and central Wyoming. We found that stream reaches invaded by Russian olive had higher organic N concentrations and exhibited reduced N limitation of biofilms compared to reference reaches. However, at low inorganic N background concentrations, reaches invaded by Russian olive exhibited higher demand for both NH-N and NO-N compared to their paired reference reaches, suggesting these streams have the potential to retain the N subsidy from Russian olive N fixation and diminish its downstream export and effects. Our findings demonstrate the potential for a nonnative riparian plant to significantly alter biogeochemical cycling in streams. Finally, we used our results to develop a conceptual model that describes predicted effects of Russian olive and other nonnative riparian N fixers on in-stream N dynamics.
25470408|We compiled a time series of Earth Observing-1 Hyperion satellite observations with field measurements to compare the structural, biochemical, and physiological characteristics of an invasive nitrogen-fixing tree Myrica faya and native Metro-sideros polymorpha in montane rainforests in Hawai'i. Satellite-based canopy water measurements closely tracked variations in leaf area index, and the remotely sensed photochemical and carotenoid reflectance indices (PRI, CRI) indicated variations in upper-canopy leaf chlorophyll and carotenoid content during a climatological transition. The PRI and CRI were related to differences in light-use efficiency of each species, as indicated by field measurements of leaf electron transport rate. The suite of hyperspectral metrics indicated maximum differences in the structure, biochemistry, and physiology of Myrica and Metrosideros when canopy vapor pressure deficit was high during hotter and drier periods. These satellite data, combined with the Carnegue-Ames-Stanford Approach (CASA) carbon cycle model, suggested that Myrica growth rates were 16-44% higher than Metrosideros, with relative differences between species closely linked to climate conditions. The satellite hyperspectral data identified the basic biological mechanisms favoring the spread of an introduced tree, and provided a more detailed understanding of how vegetation-climate interactions affect the time course of plant growth with respect to the invasion process.
43677540|Sustainable nutrient cycling in agroecosystems combining grazing and crops has global ramifications for protecting these ecosystems and for the livelihoods they support. We sought to understand environmental, management, and social drivers of nutrient management and sustainability in Andean grazing/crop systems. We assessed the impact of farmer wealth, fields' proximity to villages, topography, and rangeland net primary productivity (NPP) on mass balances for nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) of 43 fields. Wealthier farmers applied greater total amounts (kg) of manure nutrients. However, higher manure application rates (kg ha) were associated with field proximity and NPP rather than wealth. Manure P inputs in far fields (> 500-m distant) were half those in near fields. Harvest exports increased with manure inputs (P < 0.001) so that balances varied less than either of these flows. Erosion nutrient losses in steeper far fields matched crop exports, and yields declined with increasing field slope (P < 0.001), suggesting that erosion reduces productivity. Balances for P were slightly positive in near and far fields (+ 2.2 kg P ha y, combined mean) when calculated without erosion, but zero in near fields and negative in far fields with erosion included (-6.1 kg P ha y in far fields). Near/far differences in both inputs and erosion thus drove P limitation. Crop K exports dominated K balances, which were negative even without accounting for erosion. Modeled intensification scenarios showed that remediating far field deficits would require P addition and erosion reduction. Management nested within environmental constraints (NPP, erosion) rather than socioeconomic status drives soil nutrient sustainability in these agroecosystems. Time-lags between management and long-term degradation are a principal sustainability challenge to farming in these montane grazing/crop agroecosystems.
43677533|We investigated long-term responses (since 1850) of Fagus sylvatica (Luxembourg; central Europe) to shifts in temperature, precipitation, and nitrogen deposition by analyzing diameter at breast height (DBH) increment, basal area increment (BAI), and tree-ring stable isotopes (C, N). We compared stands on soils with contrasting water supply (Regosols and Cambisols with an available water capacity of ca. 40 and 170 mm, respectively) and of two different age classes (ca. 60 vs. 200 years). All stands showed a peak in DBH increment in the decade 1978-1987, but a decline in increment growth in subsequent decades. In addition, BAI declined in mature stands in the last two decades. Decreasing increment rates were attributable to an increasing drought limitation of stands, mainly induced by increasing temperatures in the last two decades. Contrary to our expectations, stands on Cambisols showed a similar susceptibility to shifts in temperature and precipitation as stands on Regosols, suggesting a strong adaptation of the respective ecotypes grown at dryer sites. This result was in line with long-term trends for tree-ring C signatures, which did not differ significantly between stands on Cambisols and Regosols. Climate impacts on tree-ring N signatures were low. High spring precipitation and temperatures caused increasing and decreasing N values, respectively, but only in mature stands on Cambisols. Stands on Regosols tended to have lower N values than stands on Cambisols. Decreasing N values in recent decades suggest an increasing impact of allochthonous N loads with isotopically lighter N.
41413971|Production and distribution of fine roots (< 2.0 mm diameter) are central to belowground ecological processes. This is especially true where vegetation serves as a pump to prevent saturation of soil and possible drainage of excess water into or from potentially toxic waste material stored underground or in mounds aboveground. In this study undertaken near Sydney in Australia, we determined fine root biomass and evapotranspiration (ET) on a waste disposal site restored with either a 15-year-old grass sward or plantations of mixed woody species that were either 5 years old (plantation-5) with a vigorous groundcover of pasture legumes and grasses, or 3 years old (plantation-3) with sparse groundcover. These sites were compared with nearby remnant woodland; all four were located within 0.5-km radius at the same site. Ranking of fine root biomass was in the order woodland (12.3 Mg ha) > plantation-5 (8.3 Mg ha) > grass (4.9 Mg ha) > plantation-3 (1.2 Mg ha) and was not correlated with nutrient contents in soil or plants, but reflected the form and age of the vegetation covers. Trends in root length density (RLD) and root area index (RAI) followed those in root biomass, but the differences in RAI were larger than those in biomass amongst the vegetation covers. Annual ET in the dry year of 2009 was similar in the three woody vegetation covers (652-683 mm) and was at least 15% larger than for the grass (555 mm), which experienced restrained growth in winter and periodic mowing. This resulted in drainage from the grass cover while there was no drainage from any of the woody vegetation covers. In plantation-5, root biomass, RAI and RLD were reduced in the rain shadow side of the tree rows. Similarly, the amount and depth of rooting in the groundcover were reduced close to the trees compared to midway between rows. Differences in the root variables were larger than those in ET, which suggested that more roots were produced than were needed for water uptake and/or presence of considerable amounts of necromass. We conclude that vegetation covers, such as plantation-5 consisting of widely spaced trees and a heavy groundcover containing winter-active pasture legumes, will promote year-round water-use with a reduced risk of deep rooting that could breach buried wastes. This function could be sustained through progressive thinning of trees to account for not more than 25% of the whole canopy cover; this will minimize competition for limited soil-water and thereby constrain deep rooting as vegetation ages and attains climax.
25622884|Successful ecosystem-based management requires the selection and use of informative indicators of ecosystem status. We analyzed seven marine food web models to evaluate the performance of candidate indicators of ecosystem structure and function. The basic approach involved simulating fishing perturbations to each model, measuring the response of ecosystem attributes and candidate indicators to the perturbations, and testing the ability of the indicators to track changes in the values of the attributes. We focused on 22 ecosystem attributes, encompassing structural and functional properties that are relevant to a number of stakeholder groups but are typically difficult to measure directly (for example, food web structure, energy recycling). We tested for correlations between the attributes and 27 empirically tractable candidate indicators (for example, foraging guild biomasses, ratios of community-level groups) within each of the models and quantified consistency in indicator performance across the models. Our analysis suggests that no single indicator is sufficient to describe all of the ecosystem attributes, but at the same time highlights broad, catch-all indicators (for example, detritivores, jellyfish) and distinguishes the strongest attribute-indicator relationships. Ecosystem indicators consisting of lower-trophic level, higher-productivity functional groups tended to perform particularly well. We also identified indicators that showed strong or weak associations with different attributes, but together captured changes in nearly all of them. Examples of such complementary indicators include phytoplankton, zooplanktivorous fish, piscivorous fish, and trophic level of the catch. Quantitative approaches such as this one will enable managers to make informed decisions about ecosystem-scale monitoring in the oceans.
40793008|A ubiquitous problem for community-based regional environmental agencies is to set strategic management priorities among a myriad of issues and multiple stakeholder perspectives. Here, we quantify the strategic management priorities for natural capital and ecosystem services using multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) in a case study of the South Australian Murray-Darling Basin Natural Resources Management Board (the Board) region. A natural capital and ecosystem services framework was tailored to present decision-makers with a range of potential issues for strategic consideration as goal hierarchies in MCDA. Priorities were elicited from the Board and its four regionally based consultative groups using the Analytical Hierarchy Process and swing weights. Centered log ratio transformed weights were analyzed using multiple pairwise ANOVA comparisons (Dunnett's T3) and hierarchical cluster analysis. Substantial variation in priorities occurred between decision -makers. Nonetheless, analysis of priorities for assets and services robustly demonstrated that water was the highest priority, followed by land, then biota, with atmosphere the lowest priority. Decisionmakers also considered that environmental management should not impact negatively on built or social capital. Few significant differences in priorities were found between decision-maker groups. However, clusters of manager types were found which represent distinct alternative management strategies, notably the prioritization of either intermediate or final ecosystem services. The results have implications for regional environmental decision-making and suggest that embracing variation in perspectives may be a better way forward for multistakeholder MCDA. The study operationalizes natural capital and ecosystem services by providing strategic priorities for targeting management and policy within the context of communitybased, regional environmental management.
40603507|Coastal mangrove forests were historically considered as a source of organic matter (OM) for adjacent marine systems due to high net primary production; yet recent research suggesting little uptake through the food web because of low nutritional quality, challenges the concept of trophic linkage between mangrove forests and coral reefs. To examine the importance of mangrove forests to coral reef nutrient availability, we examined sessile reef-forming invertebrate consumers including hard corals, sponges, a bivalve mollusc, polychaete annelid and tunicate, and potential sources of OM (decaying mangrove leaves, microalgae, macroalgae, and seagrass) in Bocas del Toro, Panama. Using stable isotope analyses of  and C and a concentrationdependent version of the IsoSource mixing model, we were able to discriminate among and determine the range of potential contributions of our four OM sources to consumers. Contributions of microalgae and macroalgae were often indeterminate due to high variability, yet seagrass and mangrove contributions were often substantial. Mangrove OM ranged across sites and species of filter feeders from 0 to 57%, 7 to 41%, and 18 to 52% for sponges, file clams, and feather duster worms, respectively. Mangrove contribution to corals (Acropora cervicor nis, Agaricia fragilis, Agaricia tenuifolia, Montastrea annularis, Diploria sp.) ranged from 0 to 44%. To examine whether OM contribution varied with distance from mangroves, we conducted a sponge transplant experiment that demonstrated declining mangrove contribution across three sponge species with increasing distance from the shore. These results supported the hypothesis of mangrove-coral reef nutrient linkages, providing the first evidence that mangrove inputs of OM to sessile invertebrates are substantial, accounting for 0-57% of the composition.
25470346|The arrangement and composition of flowpath types within a given network are thought to govern its functioning. This concept assumes that different flowpath types are functionally distinct. We investigated this assumption in a fluvial ecosystem by comparing the riparian zone, parafluvial zone (in-channel gravel bars), and surface stream. We hypothesized that differences in advection, uptake, and sorption would render material cycles more (a) open and (b) mutable in the surface stream, whereas the converse would occur in the riparian zone, and an intermediate state would be seen in the intervening parafluvial zone. To test our first hypothesis, we predicted that spatial heterogeneity in solute concentrations would be least in the surface stream, greater in the parafluvial zone, and greatest in the riparian zone. Using a null model, we ascertained that this pattern was shown by all solute species we examined (nitrate, ammonium, total dissolved inorganic nitrogen [DIN], dissolved organic N, total dissolved N, soluble reactive phosphorus, dissolved organic carbon, and chloride). To test our second hypothesis, we predicted that temporal change in spatial heterogeneity would be greatest in the surface stream, less in the parafluvial zone, and least in the riparian zone. Nitrate, DIN, and chloride showed this pattern. In particular, surface stream inorganic N was less spatially variable following months of high rainfall. According to an extant hypothesis, these results suggest that inorganic N processing may be a stable function in this ecosystem. Other solute species did not support our second prediction, perhaps because their retention and release dynamics are influenced principally by geochemistry. Generally, our findings indicate that a geomorphic template can generate spatial patterns in ecosystem function, warranting an expansion of the spiraling framework to a variety of flowpath types.
27823689|It has only recently become apparent that biological activity during winter in seasonally snow-covered ecosystems may exert a significant influence on biogeochemical cycling and ecosystem function. One-seventh of the global soil carbon pool is stored in the bulk soil component of arctic ecosystems. Consistent climate change predictions of substantial increases in winter air temperatures and snow depths for the Arctic indicate that this region may become a significant net annual source of CO2 to the atmosphere if its bulk soil carbon is decomposed. We used snow fences to investigate the influence of a moderate increase in snow depth from approximately 0.3 m (ambient) to approximately 1 m on winter carbon dioxide fluxes from mesic birch hummock tundra in northern Canada. We differentiated fluxes derived from the bulk soil and plant-associated carbon pools using an experimental 'weeding' manipulation. Increased snow depth enhanced the wintertime carbon flux from both pools, strongly suggesting that respiration from each was sensitive to warmer soil temperatures. Furthermore, deepened snow resulted in cooler and relatively stable soil temperatures during the spring-thaw period, as well as delayed and fewer freezethaw cycles. The snow fence treatment increased mean total winter efflux from 27 to 43 g CO2-C m2. Because total 2004 growing season net ecosystem exchange for this site is estimated at 2937 g CO2-C m2, our results strongly suggest that a moderate increase in snow depth can enhance winter respiration sufficiently to switch the ecosystem annual net carbon exchange from a sink to source, resulting in net CO2 release to the atmosphere.
25053880|Recent, parallel developments in the study of freshwater and marine ecosystems have provided evidence that net heterotrophic systems (those in which respiratory organic matter destruction exeeds photosynthetic production) are more prevalent than hitherto believed, including most rivers, oligo- to mesotrophic lakes and some oligotrophic regions of the ocean. In parallel, these aquatic ecosystems have been shown to act as
3658973|Nomadism in animals is a response to resource distributions that are highly variable in time and space. Using the avian fauna of the Mediterranean-climate region of southcentral Australia, we tested a number of variables to determine if they predicted nomadism. These variables were species body mass, the distance in body mass terms to the edge of a body mass aggregation, and diet (for example, seeds, invertebrates, nectar, or plants). We utilized two different classifications of the avifauna that diverged in their definition of nomadic to build two different predictive models. Using both classifications, distance to the edge of a body mass aggregation was found to be a significant predictor of nomadism. There was also evidence that nomads tend to feed on nectar and tend to be large. The significance of the variables body mass and diet (nectar) may reflect the greater energy requirements of large birds and the inherent variability of nectar as a food source. The significance of the variable distance to the edge of a body mass aggregation provides further evidence of inherent variability in resources between domains of scale. The edges of body mass aggregations are hypothesized to be areas of increased resource variability that reflect the transition from one scale of landscape pattern to another.
41505961|The sensitivity of surface waters to acidic deposition is governed by the interaction of catchment geology, soils, topography, land use, climate and atmospheric deposition. Accordingly at the landscape scale, catchment attributes may be used to predict lake chemistry (for example, acid neutralising capacity (ANC), pH, calcium (Ca) and dissolved organic carbon (DOC)). Empirical (multiple linear regression) models based on average measured chemistry (2000-2006) for 204 lakes in Nova Scotia (NS) Canada, and their catchment attributes, were used to predict chemistry for all lakes in NS (n = 6104). Damage to aquatic biota, such as loss of species and/or reduced biodiversity has been widely evaluated using critical chemical thresholds commonly based on pH, ANC and Ca. The proportion of sensitive lakes in NS (that is, the stock at risk) was estimated as lakes with ANC less than 20 eq l, pH below 6, and Ca less than 75 eq l (13, 73 and 74%, respectively). Many lakes in NS are characterized by high DOC (> 7 mg l); in these lakes organic acids contribute to total acidity, making anthropogenic influences difficult to discern. To account for the potential contribution of organic acidity, all lakes with pH below 6 (and DOC < 7 mg l) and lakes below a threshold for ANC adjusted for organic acids were quantified; 63% of the lakes fell below either of these thresholds. Despite substantial reductions in sulphur emissions in North America since the 1980s, many lakes in NS remain at risk to acidic deposition.
3658616|Old forests are generally believed to exhibit low net primary productivity (NPP) and therefore to be insignificant carbon sinks. This relationship between age and NPP is based, in part, on the hypothesis that the biomass of respiratory tissues such as sapwood increases with age to a point where all photosynthate is required just to maintain existing tissue. However, this theoretical connection between respiration:assimilation ratios and forest productivity is based on age-dependent trends in the sapwood:leaf ratios of individual trees and even-aged stands; it does not take into account such processes in natural forests as disproportional increases in shade-tolerant species over time and multiple-age cohorts. Ignoring succession and structural complexity may lead to large underestimates of the productivity of old forests and inaccurate estimates of the ages at which forest productivity declines. To address this problem, we compared biomass allocation and productivity between whitebark pine, a shade-intolerant, early-successional tree species, and subalpine fir, a shade-tolerant, late-successional species, by harvesting 14 whitebark pines and nine subalpine firs that varied widely in dbh and calculating regression models for dbh vs annual productivity and biomass allocation to leaves, sapwood, and heartwood. Late-successional subalpine fir allocated almost twice as much biomass to leaves as early-successional whitebark pine. Subalpine firs also had a much lower allocation to sapwood and higher growth rates across all tree sizes. We then modeled biomass allocation and productivity for 12 natural stands in western Montana that were dominated by subalpine fir and whitebark pine varying in age from 67 to 458 years by applying the regressions to all trees in each stand. Whole-stand sapwood:leaf ratios and stand productivity increased asymptotically with age. Sapwood:leaf ratios and productivity of whitebark pine in these stands increased for approximately 200-300 years and then decreased slowly over the next 200 years. In contrast, sapwood:leaf ratios of all sizes of subalpine fir were lower than those of pine and productivity was higher. As stands shifted in dominance from pine to fir with age, subalpine fir appeared to maintain gradually increasing rates of whole-forest productivity until stands were approximately 400 years old. These results suggest that forests such as these may continue to sequester carbon for centuries. If shade-tolerant species that predominate late in succession maintain high assimilation-to-respiration ratios in other forests, we may be underestimating production in old forests, and current models may underestimate the importance of mature forests as carbon sinks for atmospheric CO
40296320|Secondary forests are becoming increasingly widespread in the tropics, but our understanding of how secondary succession affects carbon (C) cycling and C sequestration in these ecosystems is limited. We used a well-replicated 80-year pasture to forest successional chronosequence and primary forest in Puerto Rico to explore the relationships among litterfall, litter quality, decomposition, and soil C pools. Litterfall rates recovered rapidly during early secondary succession and averaged 10.5 ( 0.1 SE) Mg/ha/y among all sites over a 2-year period. Although forest plant community composition and plant life form dominance changed during succession, litter chemistry as evaluated by sequential C fractions and by C-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy did not change significantly with forest age, nor did leaf decomposition rates. Root decomposition was slower than leaves and was fastest in the 60-year-old sites and slowest in the 10-and 30-year-old sites. Common litter and common site experiments suggested that site conditions were more important controls than litter quality in this chronosequence. Bulk soil C content was positively correlated with hydrophobic leaf compounds, suggesting that there is greater soil C accumulation if leaf litter contains more tannins and waxy compounds relative to more labile compounds. Our results suggest that most key C fluxes associated with litter production and decomposition re-establish rapidly: within a decade or two during tropical secondary succession. Therefore, recovery of leaf litter C cycling processes after pasture use are faster than aboveground woody biomass and species accumulation, indicating that these young secondary forests have the potential to recover litter cycling functions and provide some of the same ecosystem services of primary forests.
27823754|Stable isotope ratios of terrestrial ecosystem nitrogen (N) pools reflect internal processes and inputoutput balances. Disturbance generally increases N cycling and loss, yet few studies have examined ecosystem 15N over a disturbance-recovery sequence. We used a chronosequence approach to examine N distribution and 15N during forest regrowth after agricultural abandonment. Site ages ranged from 10 to 115 years, with similar soils, climate, land-use history, and overstory vegetation (white pine Pinus strobus). Foliar N and 15N decreased as stands aged, consistent with a progressive tightening of the N cycle during forest regrowth on agricultural lands. Over time, foliar 15N became more negative, indicating increased fractionation along the mineralizationmycorrhizalplant uptake pathway. Total ecosystem N was constant across the chronosequence, but substantial internal N redistribution occurred from the mineral soil to plants and litter over 115 years (>25% of ecosystem N or 1,610 kg ha1). Temporal trends in soil 15N generally reflected a redistribution of depleted N from the mineral soil to the developing O horizon. Although plants and soil 15N are coupled over millennial time scales of ecosystem development, our observed divergence between plants and soil suggests that they can be uncoupled during the disturbance-regrowth sequence. The approximate 2 decrease in ecosystem 15N over the century scale suggests significant incorporation of atmospheric N, which was not detected by traditional ecosystem N accounting. Consideration of temporal trends and disturbance legacies can improve our understanding of the influence of broader factors such as climate or N deposition on ecosystem N balances and 15N.
40603646|Ecosystem nutrient budgets often report values for pools and fluxes without any indication of uncertainty, which makes it difficult to evaluate the significance of findings or make comparisons across systems. We present an example, implemented in Excel, of a Monte Carlo approach to estimating error in calculating the N content of vegetation at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire. The total N content of trees was estimated at 847 kg ha with an uncertainty of 8%, expressed as the standard deviation divided by the mean (the coefficient of variation). The individual sources of uncertainty were as follows: uncertainty in allometric equations (5%), uncertainty in tissue N concentrations (3%), uncertainty due to plot variability (6%, based on a sample of 15 plots of 0.05 ha), and uncertainty due to tree diameter measurement error (0.02%). In addition to allowing estimation of uncertainty in budget estimates, this approach can be used to assess which measurements should be improved to reduce uncertainty in the calculated values. This exercise was possible because the uncertainty in the parameters and equations that we used was made available by previous researchers. It is important to provide the error statistics with regression results if they are to be used in later calculations; archiving the data makes resampling analyses possible for future researchers. When conducted using a Monte Carlo framework, the analysis of uncertainty in complex calculations does not have to be difficult and should be standard practice when constructing ecosystem budgets.
27823664|We tested whether pelagic light and nutrient availability, metabolism, organic pools and CO2- supersaturation were related to lake size and surrounding forest cover in late summerautumn measurements among 64 small (0.0220 ha), shallow seepage lakes located in nutrient-rich, calcareous moraine soils in North Zealand, Denmark. We found a strong implicit scaling to lake size as light availability increased significantly with lake size as light availability increased significantly with lake size while nutrient availability, phytoplankton biomass and dissolved organic matter declined. Forest lakes had significantly stronger net heterotrophic traits than open lakes as higher values were observed for light attenuation above and in the water, dissolved organic matter, pelagic community respiration (R) relative to maximum gross primary production (R/GPP) and CO2-supersaturation. Total-phosphorus was the main predictor of phytoplankton biomass (Chl) despite a much weaker relationship than observed in previous studies of larger lakes. Maximum gross primary production increased with algal biomass and decreased with dissolved organic matter, whereas community respiration increased with dissolved organic matter and particularly with gross primary production. These results suggest that exogenous organic matter supplements primary production as an energy source to heterotrophs in these small lakes, and particularly so in forest lakes experiencing substantial shading from the forest and dissolved humic material. This suggestion is supported by 2030-fold CO2 supersaturaiton in the surface water of the smallest forest lakes and more than sixfold supersaturation in 75% of all measurements making these lakes among the most supersaturated temperate lakes examined so far.
3658866|We investigated the atmospheric concentrations and deposition fluxes of major ions to the Turkey Lakes Watershed (TLW) between 1980 and 1996. During that time, daily
23501476|Nitrogen immobilization in fresh litter represents a significant N flux in forest ecosystems, and changes in this process resulting from atmospheric N deposition could have important implications for ecosystem responses. We conducted two leaf decay experiments, using 15 N-labeled sugar maple leaf litter, to quantify N transport from old litter and soil to fresh litter during early stages of decomposition, and we examined the influence of litter N concentration and soil N availability on upward N transfer in a northern hardwood forest. After one year of decay, the average N transfer from soil to fresh litter (2.63 mg N g -1 litter) was much higher than the N transfer from older litter (1 - to 2-years-old) to fresh litter (0.37 mg N g -1 litter). We calculated the ratio of annual N transfer per unit of excess 15 N pool for these two N sources. The ratio was not significantly different between old litter and soil, suggesting that fungi utilize N in the old litter and mineral soil pools for transport to decaying fresh litter with similar efficiency. Initial litter N concentration had a significant effect on upward N flux into decaying leaf litter, whereas no effect of soil N fertilization was observed. Reduction in the flux from soil to fresh litter owing to anthropogenic N inputs probably contributes significantly to changing soil N dynamics. Future work is needed on fungal N acquisition and transport as well as the fungal taxa involved in this process and their responses to changing environments.
3659046|Land use can exert a powerful influence on ecological systems, yet our understanding of the natural and social factors that influence land use and land-cover change is incomplete. We studied land-cover change in an area of about
27823685|We examined the dynamics of organic nitrogen (N) turnover in situ across a primary successional sequence in interior Alaska, USA, in an attempt to understand the magnitude of these fluxes in cold, seasonally frozen soils. Through a combination of soil extraction procedures and measurements of 13C-enriched CO2 efflux from soils amended in the field with 13C-labeled amino acids, we were able to trace the fate of this N form. Amino acid turnover in situ at soil temperatures of 10C or below show that amino acids represent a highly dynamic soil N pool with turnover times of approximately 36 h. The rapid turnover of free amino acids is associated with high soil proteolytic activity, which in turn is tightly correlated with soil protein concentration. Moreover, these estimates of soil amino acid turnover in the field correspond well with measurements of amino acid turnover under equivalent temperatures in the laboratory. The gross flux of amino acid-N over the growing season greatly exceeded the annual vegetation N requirement, suggesting that microbial biomass represent a significant sink for this organic N. Depending on the strength of this sink, N flow via free soil amino acids can potentially account for the entire N demand of vegetation in the absence of net N mineralization. These relationships underscore the important biogeochemical role of labile DON fractions in high-latitude forest ecosystems.
27823717|We conducted a 2-year in situ experiment to test the capacity of iron additions to reverse the decline experienced by a Posidonia oceanica meadow colonizing carbonate, iron poor sediment. Iron additions improved the sediment conditions that support seagrass growth by decreasing the sediment sulfide concentration and sulfate reduction rates, and decreased sulfide intrusion into the plants. Iron additions for 2 years did not significantly change survivorship of shoots present at the onset of the experiment, but significantly increased shoot recruitment and survivorship of shoots recruited during the experiment. After 2 years, iron additions reversed seagrass decline and yielded positive growth rates of shoots relative to control populations where seagrass continued to decline. This research demonstrates that seagrass decline in carbonate sediments may be reversed by targeting critical processes such are sediment sulfide pools and seagrass nutritional status, controlling the functioning of the ecosystem.
41413035|Recent advances in soil C saturation concepts have increased our understanding of soil C storage and mineralization without explicit links to N retention and saturation theories. Here, we exploit soil texture and organic matter (OM) gradients in a Maryland, USA hardwood forest to test hypotheses that link soil organic C saturation with soil N retention and nitrification. At our site, mineral-associated OM (MAOM) N concentrations in the silt + clay particle fraction (g MAOM-N g silt + clay) were negatively correlated with the fraction of NH-N transferred to MAOM during a 3-day in situ incubation (R = -0.85), but positively correlated with potential net nitrification (R = 0.76). Moreover, the fraction of NH-N transferred to MAOM was negatively correlated with potential net nitrification (R =  0.76). Due to physicochemical stabilization mechanisms, MAOM is considered to be resistant to mineralization. Carbon saturation theory suggests that the proportion of new C inputs that can be stabilized in MAOM decreases in proportion to the amount of C already present in the fraction; C inputs not stabilized in MAOM are susceptible to rapid mineralization. We demonstrate that NH-N stabilization in MAOM is similar to C stabilization in MAOM and associated with nitrification, thereby extending soil C saturation theory to mineral N and linking it with N retention and saturation theories. These data and concepts complement N saturation models that emphasize vegetation type, N input levels, and microbial turnover. Incorporating the OM retention capacity of fine mineral particles into N saturation theory can improve predictions of N saturation rates and resolve inconsistent relationships between soil organic matter, texture, N mineralization, and N retention.
40928242|Determination of the direct causal factors controlling wildfires is key to understanding wildfirevegetation-climate dynamics in a changing climate and for developing sustainable management strategies for biodiversity conservation and maintenance of long-term forest productivity. In this study, we sought to understand how the fire frequency of a large mixedwood forest in the central boreal shield varies as a result of temporal and spatial factors. We reconstructed the fire history of an 11,600-km area located in the northwestern boreal forest of Ontario, using archival data of large fires occurring since 1921 and dendrochronological dating for fires prior to 1921. The fire cycle decreased from 295 years for the period of 1820-1920 to approximately 100 years for the period of 1921-2008. Spatially, fire frequency increased with latitude, attributable to higher human activities that have increased fragmentation and fire suppression in the southern portion of the study area. Fire frequency also increased with distance to waterbodies, and was higher on Podzols that were strongly correlated with moderate drainage and coniferous vegetation. The temporal increase of fire frequency in the central region, unlike western and eastern boreal forests where fire frequency has decreased, may be a result of increased warm and dry conditions associated with climate change in central North America, suggesting that the response of wildfire to global climate change may be regionally individualistic. The significant spatial factors we found in this study are in agreement with other wildfire studies, indicating the commonality of the influences by physiographic features and human activities on regional fire regimes across the boreal forest. Overall, wildfire in the central boreal shield is more frequent than that in the wetter eastern boreal region and less frequent than that in the drier western boreal region, confirming a climatic top-down control on the fire activities of the entire North American boreal forest.
43677495|Recent studies report that multifunctionalitythe simultaneous provision of multiple ecosystem functionsin drylands depends on biodiversity. Others report that specific size distributions of vegetation patches indicate overall ecosystem health and function. Using a biocrust (micro-vegetation of mosses, lichens, and cyanobacteria) model system, and multivariate modeling, we determined the relative importance of biodiversity, patch-size distribution, and total abundance to nutrient cycling and multifunctionality. In most cases we explained at least 20%, and up to 65%, of the variation in ecosystem functions, and 42% of the variation in multifunctionality. Species richness was the most important determinant of C cycling, constituting an uncommonly clear link between diversity and function in a non-experimental field setting. Regarding C cycling in gypsiferous soils, we found that patch size distributions with a greater frequency of small to medium patches, as opposed to very small patches, were more highly functional. Nitrogen cycling was largely a function of biocrust cover in two soil types, whereas in gypsiferous soils, more central-tending patch size distributions were less functional with regards to N cycling. All three community properties were about equally important to multifunctionality. Our results highlight the functional role of biotic attributes other than biodiversity, and indicate that high cover and diversity, together with a particular patch-size distribution, must be attained simultaneously to maximize multifunctionality. The results also agree with trends observed with other terrestrial and aquatic communities that more biodiversity is needed to sustain multifunctionality compared to single functions considered independently.
27823661|Ephemeral wetlands in the Antarctic dry valleys alternate as sites of in situ net primary production when inundated and sources of organic matter for eolian export when desiccated. Evidence of this switch was obtained from observations made in two field seasons (2001 and 2003), coincidentally separated by a season of exceptionally high water yield from nearby glaciers (2002). In 2001, organic matter on soil surfaces adjacent to several ponds in Taylor Valley often exceeded 500 g C/m2. One pond had a total stock of approximately 1,388 kg organic C on soils within 20 m of the shoreline. These materials formed concentric rings around the pond, suggesting historically higher water levels, consistent with aerial photographs taken a decade earlier (1993). In 2003, these materials were submerged by water apparently received during the intervening year. Also in 2003, pitfall traps were placed along the edges of exposed organic matter adjacent to another pond to evaluate organic material erosion by wind. Over 4.5 days, traps collected 0.22  0.12 to 2.91  1.68 g C/m2, both confirming and quantifying wind transport. These results indicate that organic matter production and movement, driven by seasonal and decadal patterns of inundation/desiccation of small, ephemeral wetlands, overlay longer term (centuries and millennia) and larger scale (landscape) patterns of production and distribution driven by regional fluctuations in hydrological balance between glaciers and large freshwater lakes.
40603434|Over the past 50 years, China's ancient agricultural village landscapes have been transformed by unprecedented social technological, and ecological changes. Although these dense anthropogenic mosaics of croplands, settlements, and other used lands cover more than 2 million square kilometers across China, the nature of these changes and their environmental impacts remain poorly understood because their spatial scale is generally too small to measure accurately using conventional landchange methods. Here, we investigate the regional consequences of fine-scale landscape changes across China's village regions from 1945 to 2002 using high-resolution, field-validated ecological mapping of a regionally stratified sample of village landscapes at five sites across China, with uncertainties estimated using model-based resampling and Monte Carlo methods. From 1945 to 2002, built surface areas increased by about 7% (90% credible interval = 2-17%) across China's village regions, an increase equivalent to about three times the total urban area of China in 2000. Although this striking result is explained by a near doubling of already large village populations and by lower housing density per capita in rural areas, two unexpected changes were also observed: a 9% net increase (4% to + 21%) in regional cover by closed canopy trees and an 11 % net decline (30% to + 3%) in annual crops. These major regional changes were driven primarily by intensive finescale land-transformation processes including tree planting and regrowth around new buildings, cropland abandonment, and by the adoption of perennial crops and improved forestry practices. Moreover, the fragmentation, heterogeneity, and complexity of village landscapes increased over time. By coupling regional sampling and upscaling with observations in the field, this study revealed that fine-scale land-change processes in anthropogenie landscapes have the potential for globally significant environmental consequences that are not anticipated, measured, or explained by conventional coarser resolution approaches to global and regional change measurement or modeling.
40603501|The GLOBIO3 model has been developed to assess human-induced changes in biodiversity, in the past, present, and future at regional and global scales. The model is built on simple cause-effect relationships between environmental drivers and biodiversity impacts, based on state-of-the-art knowledge. The mean abundance of original species relative to their abundance in undisturbed ecosystems (MSA) is used as the indicator for biodiversity. Changes in drivers are derived from the IMAGE 2.4 model. Drivers considered are landcover change, land-use intensity, fragmentation, climate change, atmospheric nitrogen deposition, and infrastructure development. GLOBIO3 addresses (i) the impacts of environmental drivers on MSA and their relative importance; (ii) expected trends under various future scenarios; and (iii) the likely effects of various policy response options. GLOBIO3 has been used successfully in several integrated regional and global assessments. Three different global-scale policy options have been evaluated on their potential to reduce MSA loss. These options are: climate-change mitigation through expanded use of bio-energy, an increase in plantation forestry, and an increase in protected areas. We conclude that MSA loss is likely to continue during the coming decades. Plantation forestry may help to reduce the rate of loss, whereas climate-change mitigation through the extensive use of bioenergy crops will, in fact, increase this rate of loss. The protection of 20% of all large ecosystems leads to a small reduction in the rate of loss, provided that protection is effective and that currently degraded protected areas are restored.
3658917| To evaluate the effects of climate change on boreal forest ecosystems, both atmospheric CO
3658940|Applied ecological models that are used to understand and manage natural systems often rely on spatial data as input. Spatial uncertainty in these data can propagate into model predictions. Uncertainty analysis, sensitivity analysis, error analysis, error budget analysis, spatial decision analysis, and hypothesis testing using neutral models are all techniques designed to explore the relationship between variation in model inputs and variation in model predictions. Although similar methods can be used to answer them, these approaches address different questions. These approaches differ in (a) whether the focus is forward or backward (forward to evaluate the magnitude of variation in model predictions propagated or backward to rank input parameters by their influence); (b) whether the question involves model robustness to large variations in spatial pattern or to small deviations from a reference map; and (c) whether processes that generate input uncertainty (for example, cartographic error) are of interest. In this commentary, we propose a taxonomy of approaches, all of which clarify the relationship between spatial uncertainty and the predictions of ecological models. We describe existing techniques and indicate a few areas where research is needed.
3658651|Land-use change in the tropics is creating secondary forest at an unprecedented rate. In the tropical Americas, mature dry tropical forest is rapidly being converted to secondary forest during the fallow period of shifting cultivation. We investigated litter phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) dynamics in forests recovering from shifting cultivation of maize (corn) in three regions of the Southern Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. Our goal was to understand how nutrient and water availability affect forest recovery following conversion of mature forest to agricultural land. To investigate such changes at a regional scale, newly fallen litter was collected monthly along a seasonal, a successional, and a precipitation gradient. Reflecting possible P limitation, litter P concentration declined with forest age, while litter N concentration did not differ between age classes. Average litter P concentration from the southern, wettest region was 0.87 mg/g, almost twice the litter P concentration in the drier central and northern regions (0.44 and 0.45 mg/g, respectively). Average N concentrations of litter from the three regions ranged from 1.1% to 1.2%, with no regional differences. However, minima in both P and N concentration from all regions were pronouncedly timed with peak litterfall, suggesting nutrient retranslocation during periods of water stress. Additionally, successional differences in litter P were clearest during wetter months. P nutrient-use efficiency was lowest in the southern region and highest in the central and northern study regions. N nutrient-use efficiency was up to 40 times lower than P nutrient-use efficiency and showed no regional differences. Overall, our results suggest that litter nutrient dynamics in secondary dry tropical forests of the Southern Yucatan are strongly influenced by water and nutrient availability, especially P, as well as land-use history.
40296280|Plant biomass accumulation and productivity are important determinants of ecosystem carbon (C) balance during post-fire succession. In boreal black spruce (Picea mariana) forests near Delta Junction, Alaska, we quantified aboveground plant biomass and net primary productivity (ANPP) for 4 years after a 1999 wildfire in a welldrained (dry) site, and also across a dry and a moderately well-drained (mesic) chronosequence of sites that varied in time since fire (2 to ~116 years). Four years after fire, total biomass at the 1999 burn site had increased exponentially to 160  21 g m (mean  1SE) and vascular ANPP had recovered to 138  32 g m y, which was not different than that of a nearby unburned stand (160  48 g m y) that had similar pre-fire stand structure and understory composition. Production in the young site was dominated by re-sprouting graminoids, whereas production in the unburned site was dominated by black spruce. On the dry and mesic chronosequences, total biomass pools, including overstory and understory vascular and non-vascular plants, and lichens, increased logarithmically (dry) or linearly (mesic) with increasing site age, reaching a maximum of 2469  180 (dry) and 4008  233 g m (mesic) in mature stands. Biomass differences were primarily due to higher tree density in the mesic sites because mass per tree was similar between sites. ANPP of vascular and non-vascular plants increased linearly over time in the mesic chronosequence to 335  68 g m y in the mature site, but in the dry chronosequence it peaked at 410  43 g m y in a 15-year-old stand dominated by deciduous trees and shrubs. Key factors regulating biomass accumulation and production in these ecosystems appear to be the abundance and composition of re-sprouting species early in succession, the abundance of deciduous trees and shrubs in intermediate aged stands, and the density of black spruce across all stand ages. A better understanding of the controls over these factors will help predict how changes in climate and fire regime will affect the carbon balance of Interior Alaska.
40928222|We examine macronutrient limitation in New Zealand (NZ) lakes where, contrary to the phosphorus (P) only control paradigm, nitrogen (N) control is widely adopted to alleviate eutrophication. A review of published results of nutrient enrichment experiments showed that N more frequently limited lake productivity than P; however, stoichiometric analysis of a sample of 121 NZ lakes indicates that the majority (52.9%) of lakes have a mean ratio of total nitrogen (TN) to total phosphorus (TP) (by mass) indicative of potential P-limitation (> 15:1), whereas only 14.0% of lakes have mean TN:TP indicative of potential N-limitation (< 7:1). Comparison of TN, TP, and chlorophyll a data between 121 NZ lakes and 689 lakes in 15 European Union (EU) countries suggests that at the national scale, N has a greater role in determining lake productivity in NZ than in the EU. TN:TP is significantly lower in NZ lakes across all trophic states, a difference that is driven primarily by significantly lower in-lake TN concentrations at low trophic states and significantly higher TP concentrations at higher trophic states. The form of the TN:TP relationship differs between NZ and the EU countries, suggesting that lake nutrient sources and/or loss mechanisms differ between the two regions. Dual control of N and P should be the status quo for lacustrine eutrophication control in New Zealand and more effort is needed to reduce P inputs.
40296310|In a combined field and laboratory study in the southwest of Burkina Faso, we quantified soilatmosphere NO and NO exchange. NO emissions were measured during two field campaigns throughout the growing seasons 2005 and 2006 at five different experimental sites, that is, a natural savanna site and four agricultural sites planted with sorghum (n = 2), cotton and peanut. The agricultural fields were not irrigated and not fertilized. Although NO exchange mostly fluctuated between -2 and 8 g NO-N m h, peak NO emissions of 10-35 g NO-N m h during the second half of June 2005, and up to 150 g NO N m h at the onset of the rainy season 2006, were observed at the native savanna site, whereas the effect of the first rain event on N O emissions at the crop sites was low or even not detectable. Additionally, a fertilizer experiment was conducted at a sorghum field that was divided into three plots receiving different amounts of N fertilizer (plot A: 140 kg N ha; plot B: 52.5 kg N ha; plot C: control). During the first 3 weeks after fertilization, only a minor increase in NO emissions at the two fertilized plots was detected. After 24 days, however, NO emission rates increased exponentially at plot A up to a mean of 80 g NO-N m h, whereas daily mean values at plot B reached only 19 g NO-N m h, whereas NO flux rates at plot C remained unchanged. The calculated annual NO emission of the nature reserve site amounted to 0.52 kg NO-N ha a in 2005 and to 0.67 kg NO-N ha a in 2006, whereas the calculated average annual NO release of the crop sites was only 0.19 kg NO-N ha a and 0.20 kg NO-N ha a in 2005 and 2006, respectively. In a laboratory study, potential NO and NO formation under different soil moisture regimes were determined. Single wetting of dry soil to medium soil water content with subsequent drying caused the highest increase in NO and NO emissions with maximum fluxes occurring 1 day after wetting. The stimulating effect lasted for 3-4 days. A weaker stimulation of NO and NO fluxes was detected during daily wetting of soil to medium water content, whereas no significant stimulating effect of single or daily wetting to high soil water content (>67%
23325685|The quantity of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emissions from inland waters into the atmosphere varies, depending on spatial and temporal variations in the partial pressure of CO 2 (pCO 2 ) in waters. Using 22,664 water samples from 851 boreal lakes and 64 boreal streams, taken from different water depths and during different months we found large spatial and temporal variations in pCO 2 , ranging from below atmospheric equilibrium to values greater than 20,000 atm with a median value of 1048 atm for lakes (n = 11,538 samples) and 1176 atm for streams (n = 11,126). During the spring water mixing period in April/May, distributions of pCO 2 were not significantly different between stream and lake ecosystems (P > 0.05), suggesting that pCO 2 in spring is determined by processes that are common to lakes and streams. During other seasons of the year, however, pCO 2 differed significantly between lake and stream ecosystems (P < 0.0001). The variable that best explained the differences in seasonal pCO 2 variations between lakes and streams was the temperature difference between bottom and surface waters. Even small temperature differences resulted in a decline of pCO 2 in lake surface waters. Minimum pCO 2 values in lake surface waters were reached in July. Towards autumn pCO 2 strongly increased again in lake surface waters reaching values close to the ones found in stream surface waters. Although pCO 2 strongly increased in the upper water column towards autumn, pCO 2 in lake bottom waters still exceeded the pCO 2 in surface waters of lakes and streams. We conclude that throughout the year CO 2 is concentrated in bottom waters of boreal lakes, although these lakes are typically shallow with short water retention times. Highly varying amounts of this CO 2 reaches surface waters and evades to the atmosphere. Our findings have important implications for up-scaling CO 2 fluxes from single lake and stream measurements to regional and global annual fluxes.
3658696|Many types of ecosystems have little or no N
23501480|Wood ants (Formica rufa group) are regarded as key-stone species in boreal and mountain forests of Europe and Asia by their effect on ecosystem carbon (C) and nutrient pools and fluxes. To quantify the impact of their activity on boreal forest ecosystems, C, nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) and calcium (Ca) pools and fluxes in wood ant nests (WAN), and soil were assessed along a 5-, 30-, 60-, and 100-year-old Norway spruce (Picea abies L. Karsten) dominated successional gradient in eastern Finland. Amounts of C and nutrients in WAN increased with stand age, but contained less than 1 % of total C and nutrient pools in these stands. The CO 2 -efflux from nests was also insignificant, as compared to CO 2 -efflux from the forest floor. Annually, the amount of C brought by wood ants into their nests as honeydew, prey and nest-building materials ranged from 2.7 to 49.3 kg ha -1 C, but this is only 0.10.7% of the combined net primary production of trees and understorey in boreal forests. The difference between wood ant nest C inputs and outputs was very small in the younger-aged stands, and increased in the older stands. Carbon accumulation rates in nests over a 100 year period are estimated to be less than 10 kg ha -1 a -1 . In contrast to C, annual inputs of N, P, and K are larger compared to wood ant nest nutrient pool size, ranging from 3 to 6% of the annual tree stand and understorey uptake. This indicates a more rapid turnover and transport of N, P, and K out of WAN, and suggests that wood ants increase the cycling rate of these nutrients in boreal forests.
25470412|Industrial ecosystems are fruitful sites for examinating ecosystem management. Sewage treatment plants, breweries, biotechnology reactors, and ethanol production plants are all ecosystems-complex biophysical systems in which communities of bacteria, yeast, fungi, and other organisms are maintained to extract services or resources. The industrial analog to ecosystem management is "process control", where the industrial operator is the ecosystem manager. Process control is the management of a production process through the careful measurement and adjustment of its physical and chemical conditions. By analyzing the history of process control in activated sludge sewage treatment plants, I show the importance of craft knowledge in ecosystem management. Sewage treatment plant workers, through their experience in operating the plants, developed means of evaluating process conditions based on sight and smell rather than laboratory analysis. These craft techniques developed and persisted in spite of concerted efforts on the part of sanitary scientists to institute "scientific" control of the process based on laboratory analysis and models of microbial kinetics, suggesting that craft knowledge of ecosystem function can contribute to successful management. The craft knowledge of sewage plant workers is a kind of adaptive management, in which workers constantly adjust ecosystem parameters and observe the results. This approach is contrasted to "command and control" approaches to treatment plant automation, which have met with uneven success.
40928210|Theory predicts that wildfires will encounter spatial thresholds where different drivers may become the dominant influence on continued fire spread. Studying these thresholds, however, is limited by a lack of sufficiently detailed data sets. To address this problem, we searched for scale thresholds in data describing wildfire size at the Avon Park Air Force Range, south-central Florida. We used power-law statistics to describe the "heavy-tail" of the fire size distribution, and quantile regression to determine how the edges of data distributions of fire size were related to climate. Power-law statistics revealed a heavy-tail, a pattern consistent with scale threshold theory, which predicts that large fires will be rare because only fires that cross all thresholds will become large. Results from quantile regression suggested that different climate conditions served as critical thresholds, influencing wildfire size at different spatial scales. Modeling at higher quantiles (75th) implicated drought as driving the spread of larger fires, whereas modeling at lower quantiles ( 25th) implicated that wind governed the spread of smaller fires. Fires of intermediate size were negatively associated with relative humidity. Our results are consistent with the idea that fire spread involves scale thresholds, with the small-scale drivers allowing fires to spread after ignition, but with further spread only being possible when largescale drivers are favorable. These results suggest that other data sets that have heavy-tailed distributions may contain patterns generated by scale thresholds, and that these patterns may be revealed using quantile regression.
40603503|We examined the effects of elevated CO and O and their interaction on leaf litter chemistry and decomposition in pure stands of aspen (Populus tremuloides) and mixed stands of birch (Betula papyrifera) and aspen at the Aspen Free Air CO Enrichment (FACE) experiment. A 935-day in situ incubation study was performed using litterbags filled with naturally senesced leaf litter. We found that elevated CO had no overall effects on litter decomposition rates, whereas elevated O reduced litter mass loss (-13%) in the first year. The effect of O on mass loss disappeared in the second year. For aspen litter but not mixed birch-aspen litter, decomposition rates were negatively correlated with initial concentrations of condensed tannins and phenolics. Most soluble components (94% of soluble sugars, 99% of condensed tannins, and 91% of soluble phenolics) and any treatment effects on their initial concentrations disappeared rapidly. However, the mean residence time (MRT) of birch-aspen litter (3.1 years) was significantly lower than that of aspen litter (4.8 years). Further, because of variation in total litterfall, total litter mass, C, lignin and N remaining in the ecosystem was highest under elevated CO and lowest under elevated O during the incubation period. Our results indicate that elevated CO and O can alter short-term litter decomposition dynamics, but longer-term effects will depend more on indirect effects mediated through changes in forest community composition. Treatment effects on soluble components are likely to influence cyclical microbial processes and carbon pulses in the ecosystem only when coupled with increased (CO) or decreased (O) litter inputs.
23501498|Forest succession may cause changes in nitrogen (N) availability, vegetation and fungal community composition that affect N uptake by trees and their mycorrhizal symbionts. Understanding how these changes affect the functioning of the mycorrhizal symbiosis is of interest to ecosystem ecology because of the fundamental roles mycorrhizae play in providing nutrition to trees and structuring forest ecosystems. We investigated changes in tree and mycorrhizal fungal community composition, the availability and uptake of N by trees and mycorrhizal fungi in a forest undergoing a successional transition (age-related loss of early successional tree taxa). In this system, 8296% of mycorrhizal hyphae were ectomycorrhizal (EM). As biomass production of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) trees increased, AM hyphae comprised a significantly greater proportion of total fungal hyphae, and the EM contribution to the N requirement of EM-associated tree taxa declined from greater than 75% to less than 60%. Increasing N availability was associated with lower EM hyphal foraging and 15 N tracer uptake, yet the EM-associated later-successional species Quercus rubra was nonetheless a stronger competitor for 15 N than AM-associated Acer rubrum, likely due to the more extensive nature of the persistent EM hyphal network. These results indicate that successional increases in N availability and co-dominance by AM-associated trees have increased the importance of AM fungi in the mycorrhizal community, while down-regulating EM N acquisition and transfer processes. This work advances understanding of linkages between tree and fungal community composition, and indicates that successional changes in N availability may affect competition between tree taxa with divergent resource acquisition strategies.
23253729|The number of anthropogenic compounds that occur in aquatic ecosystems today is in the thousands, many at trace concentrations. One group of compounds that has captured the interest of both the scientific community and the general public is pharmaceutical and personal care products (PPCPs), for example, hormones, chemotherapy drugs, antihistamines, stimulants, antimicrobials and various cosmetic additives. Toxicology of some PPCPs is currently understood, but their effect on ecological structure and function of aquatic ecosystems is largely unknown. We review sources and fates of these compounds in aquatic ecosystems and discuss how methods developed to study aquatic ecosystem ecology can contribute to our understanding of the influence of PPCPs on aquatic ecosystems. We argue that aquatic ecology has a well-developed tool kit for measuring the transformation, fate, and transport of solutes using assays and experiments and that these methods could be employed to investigate how PPCPs impact ecological function. We discuss the details of these approaches and conclude that application of existing ecological methods to the study of this issue could substantially improve our understanding of the effect of these compounds in aquatic ecosystems.
23501299|Conceptual models of riverfloodplain systems and biogeochemical theory predict that floodplain soil nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) mineralization should increase with hydrologic connectivity to the river and thus increase with distance downstream (longitudinal dimension) and in lower geomorphic units within the floodplain (lateral dimension). We measured rates of in situ soil net ammonification, nitrification, N, and P mineralization using monthly incubations of modified resin cores for a year in the forested floodplain wetlands of Difficult Run, a fifth order urban Piedmont river in Virginia, USA. Mineralization rates were then related to potentially controlling ecosystem attributes associated with hydrologic connectivity, soil characteristics, and vegetative inputs. Ammonification and P mineralization were greatest in the wet backswamps, nitrification was greatest in the dry levees, and net N mineralization was greatest in the intermediately wet toe-slopes. Nitrification also was greater in the headwater sites than downstream sites, whereas ammonification was greater in downstream sites. Annual net N mineralization increased with spatial gradients of greater ammonium loading to the soil surface associated with flooding, soil organic and nutrient content, and herbaceous nutrient inputs. Annual net P mineralization was associated negatively with soil pH and coarser soil texture, and positively with ammonium and phosphate loading to the soil surface associated with flooding. Within an intensively sampled low elevation flowpath at one site, sediment deposition during individual incubations stimulated mineralization of N and P. However, the amount of N and P mineralized in soil was substantially less than the amount deposited with sedimentation. In summary, greater inputs of nutrients and water and storage of soil nutrients along gradients of riverfloodplain hydrologic connectivity increased floodplain soil nutrient mineralization rates.
41507785|To examine the influence of landscape characteristics and landscape position on aquatic biogeochemistry, we sampled a total of 76 lakes within 14 different lake-chains spanning the latitudinal extent of the high-elevation Sierra Nevada (California). We measured water chemistry, dissolved organic matter (DOM), nutrients, and biotic variables in study catchments that encompassed representative ranges of area (3-22 km), elevation (2,200-3,700 m.a.s.l), elevation change (50-700 m), and average slope (13-26). Hierarchical models were used to account for variability in biogeochemistry because they explicitly maintain the framework of lakes within individual lake-chains while accounting for variation among lake-chains. Unconditional means models, where lake-chain was a random effect, revealed significant differences among lake-chains for nearly all biogeochemical variables. Models explained 42-95% of this variability, with the majority of the variation (70%) explained by the among lake-chain component. To explore the amount of additional variation explained by lake landscape position, we added lake network number (LNN) to models. LNN explained a significant amount of additional variation (7% average) in 8 of 23 biogeochemical parameters. However, it explained more variability within individual lake-chains (75%), where among lake-chain differences did not obscure patterns. Patterns of increase with LNN were found for dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen, fluorescence of DOM, alkalinity, and bacterioplankton abundance, whereas nitrate and nitrogen to phosphorus nutrient ratios decreased. LNN explained variation because it served as a proxy for underlying catchment characteristics that changed consistently along downstream flow paths. To characterize the amount of variation explained by catchment characteristics alone, we fit a third model that included lake-chain as a random effect and landscape or lake morphometry attributes as fixed effects. Catchment characteristics explained about as much additional variation (6%) as LNN, but for substantially more biogeochemical parameters (18 out of 23). The catchment characteristics most predictive of biogeochemistry were land-cover factors delineating alpine and subalpine zones (elevation, slope, or proportions of rock or shrub cover). In general, catchment characteristics were stronger predictors of biogeochemistry than characteristics of lake morphometry, emphasizing the relative importance of landscape processes in snowmelt-dominated lake ecosystems.
23501497|Upland humid tropical forest soils are often characterized by fluctuating redox dynamics that vary temporally and spatially across the landscape. An increase in the frequency and intensity of rainfall events with climate change is likely to affect soil redox reactions that control the production and emissions of greenhouse gases. We used a 24-day rainfall manipulation experiment to evaluate temporal and spatial trends of surface soil (020 cm) redox-active chemical species and greenhouse gas fluxes in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. Treatments consisted of a high rainfall simulation (60 mm day -1 ), a fluctuating rainfall regime, and a control. Water addition generated high temporal and spatial variation in soil moisture (0.30.6 m 3 m -3 ), but had no significant effect on soil oxygen (O 2 ) concentrations. Extractable nitrate (NO 3 - ) concentrations decreased with daily water additions and reduced iron (Fe(II)) concentrations increased towards the end of the experiment. Overall, redox indicators displayed a weak, non-deterministic, nonlinear relationship with soil moisture. High concentrations of Fe(II) and manganese (Mn) were present even where moisture was relatively low, and net Mn reduction occurred in all plots including controls. Mean CO 2 fluxes were best explained by soil C concentrations and a composite redox indicator, and not water addition. Several plots were CH 4 sources irrespective of water addition, whereas other plots oscillated between weak CH 4 sources and sinks. Fluxes of N 2 O were highest in control plots and were consistently low in water-addition plots. Together, these data suggest (1) a relative decoupling between soil moisture and redox processes at our spatial and temporal scales of measurement, (2) the co-occurrence of aerobic and anaerobic biogeochemical processes in well-drained surface soils, and (3) an absence of threshold effects from sustained precipitation on redox reactions over the scale of weeks. Our data suggest a need to re-evaluate representations of moisture in biogeochemical models.
40296285|Agroecosystem health derives from a combination of biophysical and socioeconomic conditions that jointly influence such properties as productivity, sustainability, stability, and equitability. In this case study, we describe and analyze a method to quantify agroecosystem health through a combination of geographically referenced data at various spatial scales. Six key variables were hypothesized to provide a minimum set of conditions required to quantify agroecosystem health: soil health, biodiversity, topography, farm economics, land economics, and social organization. Each of these key variables was quantified by one or more attributes of a study area near Wooster, Ohio. Data sources included remote sensing, digital elevation models, soil maps, county auditor records, and a structured questionnaire of landowners in the study area. These data were combined by an analytical hierarchy process to yield an agroecosystem health index. The two steps in the process were first to combine the data at the pixel scale (30 m) into key variables with normalized values, and then to combine the key variables into the final index. The analytical hierarchy process model was developed by panels of experts for each key variable and by participants in the Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center's Agroecosystems Management Program for the final agroecosystem health index value. Observed spatial patterns of the agroecosystem health index were then analyzed with respect to the underlying data. Consistent with our hypothesis and the definition of agroecosystems, spatial patterns in the agroecosystem health index were an emergent property of combined socioeconomic and biophysical conditions not apparent in any of the underlying data or key variables. The method proposed in this study permits estimation of agroecosystem health as a function of specific underlying conditions, which combine in complex ways. Because values of the agroecosystem health index and the data underlying them can be analyzed for a particular landscape, the method proposed could be useful to policy makers, educators, service agencies, organizations, and the people who live in the area for finding opportunities to improve the health of their agroecosystem.
3658635|Soil texture plays a key role in belowground C storage in forest ecosystems and strongly influences nutrient availability and retention, particularly in highly weathered soils. We used field data and the Century ecosystem model to explore the role of soil texture in belowground C storage, nutrient pool sizes, and N fluxes in highly weathered soils in an Amazonian forest ecosystem. Our field results showed that sandy soils stored approximately 113 Mg
3658679|Studies of complex systems in other disciplines provide models and analytical strategies for understanding ecosystems and landscapes. The emphasis is on invariant properties, particularly processes that create scaling relations over wide ranges of scale, both in time and space. Translations between levels of ecological organization may be accomplished by succinct characterizations of processes that operate at fine scales, followed by renormalization group analysis to reveal patterns at broad scales. The self-organized patterns found in simple ecosystem, landscape, and forest-fire models may be explained as feedback between the system state and control parameters. Critical phenomena and phase transitions are expected in open, dissipative systems where long-range correlations defy predictions based on average population densities, a concept that becomes irrelevant as nonstationary conditions prevail. Thus, complexity theory for open systems relates to the ecology of self-entailing ecosystems that function as their own environments and thereby create constraints through emergence.
3658851| I used measures of
25470426|The US Environmental Protection Agency established the Adirondack Effects Assessment Program (AEAP) to evaluate and monitor the status of biological communities in lakes in the Adirondack region of New York that have been adversely affected by acid deposition. This program includes chemical analysis of 30 lakes, sampled two to three times each summer. Results of trends analysis for lake chemistry and chlorophyll a (chlor a) are presented for 1994 to 2003, and a general comparison is made with recent results of the Adirondack Long-Term Monitoring (ALTM) Program, which included chemical analysis of all but two of these lakes (plus an additional 24 lakes) monthly, year-round for 1992-2004. Increases in pH were found in 25 of the 30 AEAP lakes (P < 0.05) and increases in acid-neutralizing capacity (ANC) were found in 12 of the 30 lakes (P < 0.05). Concentrations of both SO and Mg decreased in 11 lakes (P < 0.05), whereas concentrations of NO decreased in 20 lakes (P < 0.05). Concentrations of NH decreased in 10 lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and in three other lakes based on P < 0.1. Concentrations of inorganic and organic monomeric aluminum generally were below the reporting limit of 1.5 mol L, but decreases were detected in four and five lakes, respectively (P < 0.1). Concentrations of chlor a increased in seven lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and two lakes at a significance level of P < 0.1. A significant inverse correlation was also found between chlor a and NO concentrations in nine lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and two lakes at a significance level of P < 0.1. Results of AEAP analysis of lake chemistry were similar to those of the ALTM Program, although decreases in SO concentrations were more evident in the year-round ALTM record. Overall, the results suggest (a) a degree of chemical recovery from acidification during the summer, (b) an increase in phytoplankton productivity, and (c) a decreasing trend in NO concentrations resulting from the increased productivity.
40603431|Free air CO enrichment (FACE) experiments in aggrading temperate forests and plantations have been initiated to test whether temperate forest ecosystems act as sinks for anthropogenic emissions of CO. These FACE experiments have demonstrated increases in net primary production and carbon (C) storage in forest vegetation due to increased atmospheric CO concentrations. However, the fate of this extra biomass in the forest floor or mineral soil is less clear. After 6 years of FACE treatment in a short-rotation poplar plantation, we observed an additional sink of 32 g C m y in the forest floor. Mineral soil C content increased equally under ambient and increased CO treatment during the 6-year experiment. However, during the first half of the experiment the increase in soil C was suppressed under FACE due to a priming effect, that is, the additional labile C increased the mineralization of older SOM, whereas during the second half of the experiment the increase in soil C was larger under FACE. An additional sink of 54 g C m y in the top 10 cm of the mineral soil was created under FACE during the second half of the experiment. Although, this FACE effect was not significant due to a combination of soil spatial variability and the low number of replicates that are inherent to the present generation of forest stand FACE experiments. Physical fractionation by wet sieving revealed an increase in the C and nitrogen (N) content of macro-aggregates due to FACE. Further fractionation by density showed that FACE increased C and N contents of the light iPOM and mineral associated intra-macroaggregate fractions. Isolation of micro-aggregates from macro-aggregates and subsequent fractionation by density revealed that FACE increased C and N contents of the light iPOM, C content of the fine iPOM and C and N contents of the mineral associated intra-micro-aggregate fractions. From this we infer that the amount of stabilized C and N increased under FACE treatment. We compared our data with published results of other forest FACE experiments and infer that the type of vegetation and soil base saturation, as a proxy for bioturbation, are important factors related to the size of the additional C sinks of the forest floor-soil system under FACE.
40603644|Livestock are the major consumers of water but also sustain millions of pastoralist and farming families. In regions where water is a scarce commodity, such as the Nile basin, there is a need for strategies to improve livestock water productivity (LWP). This study seeks to contribute to this need through a better understanding of livestock water use and productivity within the Nile basin and how this varies across the basin. We developed a spatial framework combining dynamic models of digestion in ruminants, crop water requirements (CWRs), and animal drinking water requirements to estimate spatial distribution of livestock water requirements in different livestock production systems (LPSs). We compared this with livestock production and water availability estimates within the basin. The results show that in most areas LWP is less than 0.1 USD/m, with only few areas showing a LWP of 0.5 USD/m and higher. This is largely related to very low livestock meat and milk production on one hand and very variable, but, in general, low feed water productivity (fWP). Total water need for feed production was estimated to be roughly 94 billion m, which amounts to approximately 5% of the total annual rainfall (68 billion m or 3.6% of total annual rainfall when excluding water for residues). Differences in LWP between systems and regions are large, suggesting considerable scope for improvements. We discuss the main factors influencing observed patterns of LWP and livestock water use and how this information can be used for developing strategies for increasing the water productivity of agricultural systems at the basin level.
40296307|In annual grasslands that experience a mediterranean-type climate, the synchrony between plant senescence and peak solar radiation over summer results in high litter sun exposure. We examined the decomposition of both shaded and sun-exposed litter over summer and inferred the effects of photodegradation from changes in mass loss and litter chemistry. The carry-over effects of summer litter exposure on wet season decomposition were also assessed, and the attenuation of photodegradation with litter layer thickness was used to estimate the proportion of grass litter lignin susceptible to photodegradation under different treatments of a factorial global change experiment. Over summer, mass loss from grass and forb litter exposed to ambient sunlight ranged from 8% to 10%, whereas lignin decreased in grass litter by approximately 20%. After one year of decomposition, mass losses from grass leaves exposed to sunlight over summer were more than double the mass losses from summer-shaded leaves. When shade litter layer thickness was varied, mass losses over summer for all treatments were also approximately 8%; however, lignin decreased significantly only in the low shade treatments (0-64 g m of shade litter). Aboveground production of annual grasses nearly quadrupled in response to the combined effects of N addition, elevated atmospheric CO, increased precipitation and warming. The estimated proportion of grass litter lignin experiencing full photodegradation ranged from 100% under ambient conditions to 31-62% in plots receiving the combined global change treatments. These results reveal an important role of sun exposure over summer in accelerating litter decomposition in these grasslands and provide evidence that future changes in the quantity of litter deposition may modulate the influence of photodegradation integrated across the litter layer.
25053816|Fine root length production, biomass production, and turnover in forest floor and mineral soil (0-30 cm) layers were studied in relation to irrigated (I) and irrigated-fertilized (IL) treatments in a Norway spruce stand in northern Sweden over a 2-year period. Fine roots (<1 mm) of both spruce and understory vegetation were studied. Minirhizotrons were used to estimate fine root length production and turnover, and soil cores were used to estimate standing biomass. Turnover was estimated as both the inverse of root longevity (RTL) and the ratio of annual root length production to observed root length (RTR). RTR values of spruce roots in the forest floor in I and IL plots were 0.6 and 0.5
3658868|The chemical composition of stream and soil water collected from two first-order stream basins in the Turkey Lakes Watershed (TLW) during the spring melt periods of 1992-1996 was examined to determine the flowpaths of snowmelt to the stream channel. Soil water was intensively sampled from within the soil organic layers as well as above (shallow soil water) and within (deep soil water) a compact basal till. Stream SiO
3658636|Eutrophication is arguably the biggest pollution problem facing estuaries globally, with extensive consequences including anoxic and hypoxic waters, reduced fishery harvests, toxic algal blooms, and loss of biotic diversity. However, estuaries vary greatly in their susceptibility to eutrophication. The Hudson River estuary receives very high levels of nutrient inputs yet in the past has shown relatively low rates of phytoplankton productivity and is generally considered to be only moderately susceptible to eutrophication. Here, we show that eutrophication and primary production in the Hudson estuary can increase dramatically in response to climatic variation and lowered freshwater discharge from the watershed. During dry summer periods in 1995 and 1997, rates of primary production were substantially higher than those measured during the 1970s, when freshwater discharge tended to be high. In the Hudson, low freshwater discharge increases water residence times and stratification and deepens the photic zone, all of which (alone or in combination) could lead to the observed increase in primary production. Our data, along with the prediction of most climate change models that freshwater discharge will be lower in the future during the summer in the northeastern US, suggest that the Hudson will become more susceptible to eutrophication. Eutrophication in an estuary is a complex process, and climate change is likely to affect each estuary differently due to interactions with nutrient loadings and physical circulation. Hence, it is essential to consider the effects of climate change in the context of individual estuarine functioning to successfully manage eutrophication in the future.
23501301|Wood nitrogen isotope composition ( 15 N) provides a potential retrospective evaluation of ecosystem N status but refinement of this index is needed. We calibrated current wood  15 N of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), an ectomycorrhizal tree species, against a productivity gradient of contrasting coastal forests of southern Vancouver Island (Canada). We then examined historical  15 N via increment cores, and tested whether wood  15 N corresponded with climatic fluctuations. Extractable soil N ranged from 11 to 43 kg N ha -1 along the productivity gradient, and was characterized by a progressive replacement of N forms (amino acids, NH 4 + and NO 3 - ). Current wood  15 N was significantly less depleted (-5.0 to -2.6 ) with increasing productivity, although linear correlations were stronger with  15 N (the difference between wood and soil  15 N) to standardize the extent of isotopic fractionation by ectomycorrhizal fungi. An overall decline in wood  15 N of 0.9  over the years 19002009 was detected, but trends diverged widely among plots, including positive, negative and no trend with time. We did not detect significant correlations in detrended wood  15 N with mean annual temperature or precipitation. The contemporary patterns in stand productivity, soil N supply and wood  15 N were moderately strong, but interpreting historical patterns in  15 N was challenging because of potential variations in N uptake related to stand dynamics. The lack of wood  15 N correlations with climate may be partly due to methodological limitations, but might also reflect the relative stability in N supply due to the overriding constraints of soil organic matter quantity and quality.
3658860|Herbivore grazing is increasingly used as a management tool to prevent the dominance of vegetation by tall grasses or trees. In this report, a model is described that is used to analyze plant-herbivore interactions and their scaling up to landscape scale. The model can be used to predict effects of herbivory on vegetation development. The model is an ecosystem model including modules for carbon and nitrogen cycling through plants, soil organic matter, and atmosphere. Plants compete for light and nitrogen. An herbivory module is included that implements selective foraging by a herbivore in a spatially heterogeneous area. Simulations were done to analyze the effects of herbivore density on vegetation dynamics, to analyze the impact of soil fertility on maximum herbivore density, and to analyze effects of herbivore density on landscapes. Two important points come forward from the model. Maximum herbivore abundance shows a hump-shaped curve along a soil fertility gradient. At higher soil fertility, light competition becomes more important. Herbivory interferes with plant competition, giving the tall, less palatable species a competitive advantage and thereby reducing the food quality and availability and hence the carrying capacity of the area. At a landscape scale, herbivory leads to increased heterogeneity. This increased heterogeneity may increase carrying capacity. The implications of these points for nature management are discussed.
40296360|In many coastal locations, seagrass meadows are part of a greater seascape that includes both marine and terrestrial elements, each linked to the other via the foraging patterns of consumers (both predators and herbivores), and the passive drift of seagrass propagules, leaves, roots and rhizomes, and seagrass-associated macroalgal detritus. With seagrasses declining in many regions, the linkages between seagrass meadows and other habitats are being altered and diminished. Thus, it is timely to summarize what is known about the prevalence and magnitude of cross-habitat exchanges of seagrass-derived energy and materials, and to increase awareness of the importance of seagrasses to adjacent and even distant habitats. To do so we examined the literature on the extent and importance of exchanges of biomass between seagrass meadows and other habitats, both in the form of exported seagrass biomass as well as transfers of animal biomass via migration. Data were most abundant for Caribbean coral reefs and Australian beaches, and organisms for which there were quantitative estimates included Caribbean fishes and North American migratory waterfowl. Overall, data from the studies we reviewed clearly showed that seagrass ecosystems provide a large subsidy to both near and distant locations through the export of particulate organic matter and living plant and animal biomass. The consequences of continuing seagrass decline thus extend far beyond the areas where seagrasses grow.
27823660|The non-native rusty crayfish (Orconectes rusticus) has invaded many lakes of northern Wisconsin, profoundly changing littoral zones in the process. There are other lakes that have been invaded, but do not exhibit these changes. We hypothesized that endogenous feedbacks could form involving rusty crayfish, the macrophytes they destroy, and Lepomis species whose abundance is positively related to macrophyte abundance and also consume juvenile crayfish. We assessed this proposal with long-term data from one lake, a regional comparative study, and a case study of Lepomis predation on crayfish. Through time and across lakes, abundances of rusty crayfish, littoral macrophytes and species of the genus Lepomis were related in a fashion that indicated a set of feedbacks that regulate the abundance of all three. Intense predation on juvenile crayfish by abundant Lepomis is capable of maintaining some crayfish populations at low abundance. Thus, some lakes display profound ecological changes where crayfish achieve high abundance, and others sustain crayfish at low abundance. Consequently, lakes invaded by rusty crayfish may take on the appearance of alternative ecological regimes. Direct experimentation is necessary to determine if, and under what conditions, a lake can exist in either regime.
25470353|Organic carbon (C) in lakes originates from two distinct sources-primary production from within the lake itself (autochthonous supply) and importation of organic matter from the terrestrial watershed (allochthonous supply). By manipulating the C of dissolved inorganic C, thereby labeling within-lake primary production, we examined the relative importance of autochthonous and allochthonous C in supporting bacterial production. For 35 days, NaHCO was added daily to two small, forested lakes. One of the lakes (Peter) was fertilized so that primary production exceeded total respiration in the epilimnion. The other lake (Tuesday), in contrast, was low in productivity and had high levels of colored dissolved organic C (DOC). To obtain bacterial C isotopes, bacteria were regrown in situ in particle-free lake water in dialysis tubes. The contribution of allochthonous C to bacterial biomass was calculated by applying a two-member mixing model. In the absence of a direct measurement, the isotopic signature of the autochthonous end-member was estimated indirectly by three different approaches. Although there was excess primary production in Peter Lake, bacterial biomass consisted of 43-46% allochthonous C. In Tuesday Lake more than 75% of bacterial growth was supported by allochthonous C. Although bacteria used autochthonous C preferentially over allochthonous C, DOC from the watershed contributed significantly to bacterial production. In combination with results from similar experiments in different lakes, our findings suggest that the contribution of allochthonous C to bacterial production can be predicted from ratios of chromophoric dissolved organic matter (a surrogate for allochthonous supply) and chlorophyll a (a surrogate for autochthonous supply).
23501447|Human activities are rapidly changing ecosystems, landscapes and ecosystem service provision, yet there remain significant gaps in our understanding of the spatial ecology of ecosystem services. These gaps hinder our ability to manage landscapes effectively for multiple ecosystem services. In particular, we do not fully understand how changes in landscape connectivity affect ecosystem service provision, despite theory suggesting that connectivity is important. Here, we perform a semi-quantitative review of the literature that investigates how landscape connectivity affects the provision of specific ecosystem services. The vast majority of studies, including reviews, models, and field studies, suggest that decreased connectivity will have negative effects on ecosystem service provision. However, only 15 studies provided empirical evidence of these effects. Average effect sizes from these 15 studies suggest negative effects of connectivity loss on pollination and pest regulation. We identify a number of significant gaps in the connectivity-ecosystem services literature, including: a lack of multiple service studies, which precludes identification of tradeoffs between services as connectivity changes; few studies that directly measure organism movement and its effects on ecosystem services; and few empirical studies that investigate the importance of abiotic flows on service provision. We propose that future research should aim to understand how different aspects of connectivity affect ecosystem service provision; which services are most influenced by connectivity; and how connectivity influences how humans access and benefit from ecosystem services. Studies that answer these questions will advance our understanding of connectivity-ecosystem service provision relationships and allow for better ecosystem and landscape management and restoration.
23501305|Fire is a globally important ecosystem process, and invasive grass species generally increase fire spread by increasing the fuel load and continuity of native grassland fuelbeds. We suggest that invasive grasses that are photosynthetically active, while the native plant community is dormant reduce fire spread by introducing high-moisture, live vegetation gaps in the fuelbed. We describe the invasion pattern of a high-moisture, coolseason grass, tall fescue (Schedonorus phoenix (Scop.) Holub), in tallgrass prairie, and use spatially explicit fire behavior models to simulate fire spread under several combinations of fuel load, invasion, and fire weather scenarios. Reduced fuel load and increased extent of tall fescue invasion reduced fire spread, but high wind speed and low relative humidity can partially mitigate these effects. We attribute reduced fire spread to asynchrony in the growing seasons of the exotic, coolseason grass, tall fescue, and the native, warmseason tallgrass prairie community in this model system. Reduced fire spread under low fuel load scenarios indicate that fuel load is an important factor in fire spread, especially in invaded fuel beds. These results present a novel connection between fire behavior and asynchronous phenology between invasive grasses and native plant communities in pyrogenic ecosystems.
40296352|The emerging spatial scale of interest for fluvial ecosystem studies and applications is the river basin. Although much focus has been directed toward habitat availability and nutrient cycling across the fluvial landscape, light availability has received considerably less attention and has not been assessed quantitatively at the basin-scale despite it being the primary energy source for aquatic ecosystems. We developed a basin-scale light availability model that couples readily available broad spatial data with easily measured synoptic data using a GIS framework and the principles of hydraulic geometry. We used this model to (i) quantify benthic light availability
3658743| Climate change may affect ecosystem functioning through increased temperatures or changes in precipitation patterns. Temperature and water availability are important drivers for ecosystem processes such as photosynthesis, carbon translocation, and organic matter decomposition. These climate changes may affect the supply of carbon and energy to the soil microbial population and subsequently alter decomposition and mineralization, important ecosystem processes in carbon and nutrient cycling. In this study, carried out within the cross-European research project CLIMOOR, the effect of climate change, resulting from imposed manipulations, on carbon dynamics in shrubland ecosystems was examined. We performed a
41505942|Patterns of mangrove vegetation in two distinct basins of Florida Coastal Everglades (FCE), Shark River estuary and Taylor River Slough, represent unique opportunities to test hypotheses that root dynamics respond to gradients of resources, regulators, and hydroperiod. We propose that soil total phosphorus (P) gradients in these two coastal basins of FCE cause specific patterns in belowground biomass allocation and net primary productivity that facilitate nutrient acquisition, but also minimize stress from regulators and hydroperiod in flooded soil conditions. Shark River basin has higher P and tidal hydrology with riverine mangroves, in contrast to scrub mangroves of Taylor basin with more permanent flooding and lower P across the coastal landscape. Belowground biomass (0-90 cm) of mangrove sites in Shark River and Taylor River basins ranged from 2317 to 4673 g m, with the highest contribution (62-85%) of roots in the shallow root zone (0-45 cm) compared to the deeper root zone (45-90 cm). Total root productivity did not vary significantly among sites and ranged from 407 to 643 g m y. Root production in the shallow root zone accounted for 57-78% of total production. Root turnover rates ranged from 0.04 to 0.60 y and consistently decreased as the root size class distribution increased from fine to coarse roots, indicating differences in root longevity. Fine root biomass was negatively correlated with soil P density and frequency of inundation, whereas fine root turnover decreased with increasing soil N:P ratios. Lower P availability in Taylor River basin relative to Shark River basin, along with higher regulator and hydroperiod stress, confirms our hypothesis that interactions of stress from resource limitation and long duration of hydroperiod account for higher fine root biomass along with lower fine root production and turnover. Because fine root production and organic matter accumulation are the primary processes controlling soil formation and accretion in scrub mangrove forests, root dynamics in the P-limited carbonate ecosystem of south Florida have a major controlling role as to how mangroves respond to future impacts of sealevel rise.
3658811|In the coming decades, a large fraction of the world's tropical forests will be fragmented into remnants surrounded by secondary vegetation, land-use areas, or roads. It is important to develop integrative tools to monitor the evolution of these fragmented ecosystems. We used the individual-oriented and process-based forest growth simulator Formind2.0 to investigate the spatial and temporal effects on standing biomass and functional diversity of various intensities and patterns of fragmentation within a forest landscape. The simulator was calibrated for an old-growth wet forest in French Guiana, South America. We found that the standing biomass of forest remnants was reduced significantly compared to a similar area of nonfragmented forest. When fewer but larger remnants were created rather than many small ones, the total loss in biomass and the increase in the abundance of early-successional species were significantly reduced, confirming that edge effects dominate the functioning of forest remnants. We also performed simulations of secondary succession after the landscape had been abandoned. The simulated recovery time in those secondary forests depends on both the size of cleared area and the spatial pattern of the remnant forests.
40928225|Wetlands are known to be important sources of dissolved organic matter (DOM) to rivers and coastal environments. However, the environmental dynamics of DOM within wetlands have not been well documented on large spatial scales. To better assess DOM dynamics within large wetlands, we determined high resolution spatial distributions of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations and DOM quality by excitation-emission matrix spectroscopy combined with parallel factor analysis (EEM-PARAFAC) in a subtropical freshwater wet-land, the Everglades, Florida, USA. DOC concentrations decreased from north to south along the general water flow path and were linearly correlated with chloride concentration, a tracer of water derived from the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA), suggesting that agricultural activities are directly or indirectly a major source of DOM in the Everglades. The optical properties of DOM, however, also changed successively along the water flow path from high molecular weight, peat-soil and highly oxidized agricultural soil-derived DOM to the north, to lower molecular weight, biologically produced DOM to the south. These results suggest that even though DOC concentration seems to be distributed conservatively, DOM sources and diagenetic processing can be dynamic throughout wetland landscapes. As such, EEM-PARAFAC clearly revealed that humic-enriched DOM from the EAA is gradually replaced by microbial- and plant-derived DOM along the general water flow path, while additional humic-like contributions are added from marsh soils. Results presented here indicate that both hydrology and primary productivity are important drivers controlling DOM dynamics in large wetlands. The biogeochemical processes controlling the DOM composition are complex and merit further investigation.
25053822|As defined by Ascher, biocomplexity results from a "multiplicity of interconnected relationships and levels." However, no integrative framework yet exists to facilitate the application of this concept to coupled human-natural systems. Indeed, the term "biocomplexity" is still used primarily as a creative and provocative metaphor. To help advance its utility, we present a framework that focuses on linkages among different disciplines that are often used in studies of coupled human-natural systems, including the ecological, physical, and socioeconomic sciences. The framework consists of three dimensions of complexity: spatial, organizational, and temporal. Spatial complexity increases as the focus changes from the type and number of the elements of spatial heterogeneity to an explicit configuration of the elements. Similarly, organizational complexity increases as the focus shifts from unconnected units to connectivity among functional units. Finally, temporal complexity increases as the current state of a system comes to rely more and more on past states, and therefore to reflect echoes, legacies, and evolving indirect effects of those states. This three-dimensional, conceptual volume of biocomplexity enables connections between models that derive from different disciplines to be drawn at an appropriate level of complexity for integration.
40928215|Future climate scenarios predict simultaneous changes in environmental conditions, but the impacts of multiple climate change drivers on ecosystem structure and function remain unclear. We used a novel experimental approach to examine the responses of an upland grassland ecosystem to the 2080 climate scenario predicted for the study area (3.5C temperature increase, 20% reduction in summer precipitation, atmospheric CO levels of 600 ppm) over three growing seasons. We also assessed whether patterns of grassland response to a combination of climate change treatments could be forecast by ecosystem responses to single climate change drivers. Effects of climate change on aboveground production showed considerable seasonal and interannual variation; April biomass increased in response to both warming and the simultaneous application of warming, summer drought, and CO enrichment, whereas October biomass responses were either non-significant or negative depending on the year. Negative impacts of summer drought on production were only observed in combination with a below-average rainfall regime, and showed lagged effects on spring biomass. Elevated CO had no significant effect on aboveground biomass during this study. Both warming and the 2080 climate change scenario were associated with a significant advance in flowering time for the dominant grass species studied. However, flowering phenology showed no significant response to either summer drought or elevated CO. Species diversity and equitability showed no response to climate change treatments throughout this study. Overall, our data suggest that single-factor warming experiments may provide valuable information for projections of future ecosystem changes in cool temperate grasslands.
40603635|Shifts between alternative stable states have become a focus of research in temperate shallow lakes. Here we show that sharp transitions between a clear, macrophyte-dominated state and a turbid state without submerged plants can also occur in tropical floodplain lakes, albeit driven by a largely different set of mechanisms. We show how a shallow lake in the Pantanal becomes covered by an exploding population of the submerged macrophyte Egeria najas Planchn as the water level rises during the annual high-water period. Water clarity increases spectacularly in this period due to flushing with river water that has lost most of its suspended matter during its slow flow over the flooded vegetated plains. A few months later when the water level drops again, the submerged plant beds die and decompose rapidly, triggering a phase of increasing turbidity. During this period an increase in dissolved organic matter, suspended matter, and phytoplankton biomass results in a sharp deterioration in water clarity. The concomitant water level decrease largely counteracts the effects on the underwater light climate, so that the amount of light at the bottom may not differ in comparison with the high-water period. Therefore, changes in light climate seem unlikely to be the sole driver of the vegetation shifts, and other mechanisms may prevent recovery of the submerged vegetation until the next high-water episode.Also, contrary to what is found in temperate lakes, there is no evidence for top-down control of phytoplankton biomass associated with the macrophyte-dominated state in our tropical lake.
43677510|Global wildfire frequency and extent are expected to increase under projected climate change in the twenty-first century, yet little is known about how human activities might affect this trend. In central Mongolia, there has been a 2.5C rise in spring and summer temperatures during the last 40 years and a decrease in moisture availability during the latter half of the twentieth century. Concurrently, Mongolia has experienced multiple shifts in socioeconomic systems during the twentieth century, most notably the establishment of a Soviet-backed communist economy in the 1920s and a rapid transition to privatization in the 1990s. Observed records of fire in the late twentieth century suggested that fire activity had increased, but no longterm data existed to place these trends in a historical context. Our objective was to identify spatial and temporal patterns in fire occurrence in the forest-steppe ecotone of the Tuul River watershed in the context of changing climatic and social conditions since 1875. We used fire-scarred trees to reconstruct past fire occurrence during the period 1875-2009. Our results indicate a significant association between human activity and fire occurrence independent of climatic variables. The greatest evidence for an anthropogenic fire regime exists following the transition to a free market economy during the early 1990s when land-use intensification near the capital city of Ulaanbaatar resulted in fire exclusion. We emphasize the importance of including socio-political variables in global models of wildfire potential, particularly where fuels limit fire activity.
23501481|In the region northeast of Wawa, Ontario (Canada), many circumneutral lakes downwind of a nearby iron-sintering plant were strongly acidified (pH 34) in response to the emissions of large amounts of sulfur dioxide from 19391998. Following closure of the plant in 1998, lakewater pH has returned to circumneutral conditions due to the high buffering capacity of the local geological substrate. Prior paleolimnological analyses of dated sediment cores have detected some biological recovery among algal communities (diatoms and chrysophytes), although they have not returned to their pre-impact assemblages. Here we take a broader ecosystem approach, and build upon the algal analyses by examining cladoceran sedimentary assemblages, and spectrally-inferred chlorophyll a and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from the same dated sediment cores. Similar to the algal communities, recent cladoceran sedimentary assemblages from three impacted lakes remain in an altered state relative to the pre-impact period (for example, increased relative abundances of Chydorus brevilabris and reduced cladoceran density in sediments). However, trends in the spectrally-inferred chlorophyll a and DOC were mixed, with long-term decreases in the study lake closest to the plant and long-term increases within the other lakes. Collectively, the multi-proxy paleolimnological analyses of these markedly acidified lakes demonstrate the delayed biological recovery from acidification (and differences in timing) across multiple trophic levels, despite the near-elimination of acid deposition almost a decade previously, which led to a striking recovery in lakewater pH and increased food availability.
41413964|Soil nitrogen (N) availability and pH constitute major abiotic controls over microbial community composition and activity in tundra ecosystems. On the other hand, mammalian grazers form an important biotic factor influencing resource coupling between plants and soil microorganisms. To investigate individual effects and interactions among soil nutrients, pH, and grazing on tundra soils, we performed factorial treatments of fertilization, liming, and grazer exclusion in the field for 3 years at 2 contrasting tundra habitats, acidic (N-poor) and non-acidic (N-rich) tundra heaths. The effects of all treatments were small in the nonacidic tundra heaths. In the acidic tundra heaths, fertilization decreased the fungal: bacterial ratio as analyzed by soil PLFAs, but there were no effects of liming. Fertilization increased soil N concentrations more drastically in ungrazed than grazed plots, and in parallel, fertilization decreased the fungal:bacterial ratio to a greater extent in the ungrazed plots. Liming, on the other hand, partly negated the effects of fertilization on both soil N concentrations and PLFAs. Fertilization drastically increased the activity of phenol oxidase, a microbial enzyme synthesized for degradation of soil phenols, in grazed plots, but had no effect in ungrazed plots. Taken together, our results demonstrate that grazers have the potential to regulate the fungal:bacterial ratio in soils through influencing N availability for the soil microorganisms.
25470380|Nutrient cycling and energy flow in ecosystems are tightly linked through the metabolic processes of organisms. Greater uptake of inorganic nutrients is expected to be associated with higher rates of metabolism [gross primary production (GPP) and respiration (R)], due to assimilatory demand of both autotrophs and heterotrophs. However, relationships between uptake and metabolism should vary with the relative contribution of autochthonous and allochthonous sources of organic matter. To investigate the relationship between metabolism and nutrient uptake, we used whole-stream and benthic chamber methods to measure rates of nitrate-nitrogen (NO-N) uptake and metabolism in four headwater streams chosen to span a range of light availability and therefore differing rates of GPP and contributions of autochthonous carbon. We coupled whole-stream metabolism with measures of NO-N uptake conducted repeatedly over the same stream reach during both day and night, as well as incubating benthic sediments under both light and dark conditions. NO-N uptake was generally greater in daylight compared to dark conditions, and although day-night differences in whole-stream uptake were not significant, light-dark differences in benthic chambers were significant at three of the four sites. Estimates of N demand indicated that assimilation by photoautotrophs could account for the majority of NO-N uptake at the two sites with relatively open canopies. Contrary to expectations, photo-autotrophs contributed substantially to NO-N uptake even at the two closed-canopy sites, which had low values of GPP/R and relied heavily on allochthonous carbon to fuel R.
3659028|Vegetation growth characteristics influence ecosystem biogeochemistry and must be incorporated in models used to project biogeochemical responses to climate variations. We used a multiple-element limitation model (MEL) to examine how variations in nutrient use efficiency (NUE) and net primary production to biomass ratio (nPBR) affect changes in ecosystem C stocks after an increase in temperature and atmospheric CO
3658989|We report a multiscale study in the Wind River Valley in southwestern Washington, where we quantified leaf to stand scale variation in spectral reflectance for dominant species. Four remotely sensed structural measures, the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), cover fractions from spectral mixture analysis (SMA), equivalent water thickness (EWT), and albedo were investigated using Airborne Visible Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (AVIRIS) data. Discrimination of plant species varied with wavelength and scale, with deciduous species showing greater separability than conifers. Contrary to expectations, plant species were most distinct at the branch scale and least distinct at the stand scale. At the stand scale, broadleaf and conifer species were spectrally distinct, as were most conifer age classes. Intermediate separability occurred at the leaf scale. Reflectance decreased from leaf to stand scales except in the broadleaf species, which peaked in near-infrared reflectance at the branch scale. Important biochemical signatures became more pronounced spectrally progressing from leaf to stand scales. Recent regenerated clear-cuts (less than 10 years old) had the highest albedo and nonphotosynthetic vegetation (NPV). After 50 years, the stands showed significant decreases in albedo, NPV, and EWT and increases in shade. Albedo was lowest in old-growth forests. Peak EWT, a proxy measure for leaf area index (LAI), was observed in 11 - to 30-year-old stands. When compared to LAI, EWT and NDVI showed exponentially decreasing, but distinctly different, relationships with increasing LAI. This difference is biologically important: at 95% of the maximum predicted NDVI and EWT, LAI was 5.17 and 9.08, respectively. Although these results confirm the stand structural variation expected with forest succession, remote-sensing images also provide a spatial context and establish a basis to evaluate variance within and between age classes. Landscape heterogeneity can thus be characterized over large areas-a critical and important step in scaling fluxes from stand-based towers to larger scales.
3659072|Causes and implications of spatial variability in postfire tree density and understory plant cover for patterns of aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and leaf area index (LAI) were examined in ninety 11-year-old lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm.) stands across the landscape of Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming, USA. Field studies and aerial photography were used to address three questions: (1) What is the range and spatial pattern of lodgepole pine sapling density across the burned Yellowstone landscape and what factors best explain this variability? (2) How do ANPP and LAI vary across the landscape and is their variation explained by abiotic factors, sapling density, or both? (3) What is the predicted spatial pattern of ANPP and LAI across the burned Yellowstone landscape? Stand density spanned six orders of magnitude, ranging from zero to 535,000 saplings ha
43677497|Global warming and land-use change could have profound impacts on ecosystem carbon (C) fluxes, with consequent changes in C sequestration and its feedback to climate change. However, it is not well understood how net ecosystem C exchange (NEE) and its components respond to warming and mowing in tallgrass prairie. We conducted two warming experiments, one long term with a 1.7C increase in a C-dominated grassland (Experiment 1), and one short term with a 2.8C increase in a C-dominated grassland (Experiment 2), to investigate main and interactive effects of warming and clipping on ecosystem C fluxes in the Great Plains of North America during 2009-2011. An infrared radiator was used to simulate climate warming and clipping once a year mimicked mowing in both experiments. The results showed that warming significantly increased ecosystem respiration (ER), slightly increased GPP, with the net outcome (NEE) being little changed in Experiment 1. In contrast, warming significantly suppressed GPP and ER in both years, with the net outcome being enhanced in NEE (more C sequestration) in 2009-2010 in Experiment 2. The C-dominated grassland showed a much higher optimum temperature for C fluxes than the C-dominated grassland, which may partly contribute to the different warming effects in the two experiments. Clipping significantly enhanced GPP, ER, and NEE in both experiments but did not significantly interact with warming in impacting fluxes in either experiment. The warming-induced changes in ecosystem C fluxes correlated significantly with C biomass proportion but not with warming-induced changes in either soil temperature or soil moisture across the plots in the experiments. Our results demonstrate that carbon fluxes in the tallgrass prairie are highly sensitive to climate warming and clipping, and C/C plant functional types may be important factor in determining ecosystem response to climate change.
3658653|Variations in plant community composition across the landscape can influence nutrient retention and loss at the watershed scale. A striking example of plant species importance is the influence of N
25470359|Declining biodiversity in agro-ecosystems, caused by intensification of production or expansion of monocultures, is associated with the emergence of agricultural pests. Understanding how land-use and management control crop-associated biodiversity is, therefore, one of the key steps towards the prediction and maintenance of natural pest-control. Here we report on relationships between land-use variables and arthropod community attributes (for example, species diversity, abundance and guild structure) across a diversification gradient in a rice-dominated landscape in the Mekong delta, Vietnam. We show that rice habitats contained the most diverse arthropod communities, compared with other uncultivated and cultivated land-use types. In addition, arthropod species density and Simpson's diversity in flower, vegetable and fruit habitats was positively related to rice cover in the local landscape. However, across the landscape as a whole, reduction in heterogeneity and the amount of uncultivated cover was associated, generally, with a loss of diversity. Furthermore, arthropod species density in tillering and flowering stages of rice was positively related to crop and vegetation richness, respectively, in the local landscape. Differential effects on feeding guilds were also observed in rice-associated communities with the proportional abundance of predators increasing and the proportional abundance of detritivores decreasing with increased landscape rice cover. Thus, we identify a range of rather complex, sometimes contradictory patterns concerning the impact of rice cover and landscape heterogeneity on arthropod community attributes. Importantly, we conclude that that land-use change associated with expansion of monoculture rice need not automatically impact diversity and functioning of the arthropod community.
3658785| In this study, we take an ecosystem approach to examine the degree of biological self-organization at the ecosystem level. An integrated set of indicators is derived from a theoretical framework and tested by field data from an ecosystem research project focusing on the Bornhved Lake district in northern Germany. This field test is based on a comparison of the self-organized phenomena that comprise the carbon, water, and energy budgets of two adjacent edaphically and climatically similar ecosystems, that have vastly different levels of human interference-a crop field and a beech forest. In terms of biomass storage, biologically incorporated nitrogen and phosphorus, species number, total ecosystem respiration per total biomass
25622868|In contrast to studies on aboveground processes, the effect of species diversity on belowground productivity and fine-root regrowth after disturbance is still poorly studied in forests. In 12 old-growth broad-leaved forest stands, we tested the hypotheses that (i) the productivity and recovery rate (regrowth per standing biomass) of the fine-root system (root diameter < 2 mm) increase with increasing tree species diversity, and that (ii) the seasonality of fine-root biomass and necromass is more pronounced in pure than in tree species-rich stands as a consequence of non-synchronous root biomass peaks of the different species. We investigated stands with 1, 3, and 5 dominant tree species growing under similar soil and climate conditions for changes in fine-root biomass and necromass during a 12-month period and estimated fine-root productivity with two independent approaches (ingrowth cores, sequential coring). According to the analysis of 360 ingrowth cores, fine-root growth into the root-free soil increased with tree species diversity from 72 g m y in the monospecific plots to 166 g m y in the 5-species plots, indicating an enhanced recovery rate of the root system after soil disturbance with increasing species diversity (0.26, 0.34, and 0.51 y in 1-, 3-, and 5-species plots, respectively). Fine-root productivity as approximated by the sequential coring data also indicated a roughly threefold increase from the monospecific to the 5-species stand. We found no indication of a more pronounced seasonality of fine-root mass in species-poor as compared to species-rich stands. We conclude that species identification on the fine root level, as conducted here, may open new perspectives on tree species effects on root system dynamics. Our study produced first evidence in support of the hypothesis that the fine-root systems of more diverse forest stands are more productive and recover more rapidly after soil disturbance than that of species-poor forests.
40296371|Using the Ecopath with Ecosim software, a trophic structure model of the Beibu Gulf was constructed to explore the energy flows and provide a snapshot of the ecosystem operations. Input data were mainly from the trawl survey data collected from October 1998 to September 1999 and related literatures. The impacts of various fishing pressure on the biomass were examined by simulation at different fishing mortality rates. The model consists of 20 functional groups (boxes), each representing organisms with a similar role in the food web, and only covers the major trophic flows in the Beibu Gulf ecosystem. It was found that the food web of the Beibu Gulf was dominated by the primary producers path, and phytoplankton was the primary producer mostly used as a food source. The fractional trophic levels ranged from 1.0 to 4.02, and the marine mammals occupied the highest trophic level. Using network analysis, the ecosystem network was mapped into a linear food chain, and six discrete trophic levels were found with a mean transfer efficiency of 11.2%. The Finn cycling index was 9.73%. The path length was 1.821. The omnivory index was 0.197. The ecosystem had some degree of instability due to exploitation and other human activities, according to Odum's theory of ecosystem development. A 10-year simulation was performed for each fishery scenario. The fishing mortality rate was found to have a strong impact on the biomass. By keeping the fishing mortality rate at the current level for all fishing sectors, scenario 1 had a drastic decrease in the large fish groups. The biomass of the small and medium pelagic fish would increase to some extent. The biomass of the small and low trophic level species, jellyfish, prawns and benthic crustaceans would be stable. The total biomass of the fishery resources would have a 10% decrease from the current biomass after 10 years. In contrast, the reduced fishing mortality rate induced the recovery of biomass (scenarios 2-4). In scenario 2, the biomass of the large demersal fish and the large pelagic fish would increase to over 16 times and 10 times, respectively, of their current level. In scenario 4, the biomass of the large pelagic fish would increase to over 3 times of its current level. The total biomass of the fish groups, especially the high trophic level groups, would become significantly higher after 10 years, which illustrates the contribution on biomass recovery by relaxing the fishing pressure.
40603425|Elevated N deposition is continuing on many forested landscapes around the world and our understanding of ecosystem response is incomplete.Soil processes, especially nitrification, are critical. Many studies of soil N transformations have focused on identifying relationships within a single watershed but these results are often not transferable. We studied 10 small forested research watersheds in the northeastern USA to determine if there were common factors related to soil ammonification and nitrification. Vegetation varied between mixed northern hardwoods and mixed conifers. Watershed surface soils (Oa or A horizons) were sampled at grid or transect points and analyzed for a suite of chemical characteristics. At each sampling point, vegetation and topographic metrics (field and GIS-based) were also obtained. Results were examined by watershed averages (n = 10), seasonal/watershed averages (n = 28), and individual sampling points (n = 608). Using both linear and tree regression techniques, the proportion of conifer species was the single best predictor of nitrification rates, with lower rates at higher conifer dominance. Similar to other studies, the soil C/N ratio was also a good predictor and was well correlated with conifer dominance. Unlike other studies, the presence of Acer saccharum was not by itself a strong predictor, but was when combined with the presence of Betula alleghaniensis.Topographic metrics (slope, aspect, relative elevation, and the topographic index) were not related to N transformation rates across the watersheds. Although found to be significant in other studies, neither soil pH, Ca nor Al was related to nitrification. Results showed a strong relationship between dominant vegetation, soil C, and soil C/N.
25470348|A presumed value of shallow-habitat enhanced pelagic productivity derives from the principle that in nutrient-rich aquatic systems phytoplankton growth rate is controlled by light availability, which varies inversely with habitat depth. We measured a set of biological indicators across the gradient of habitat depth within the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta (California) to test the hypothesis that plankton biomass, production, and pelagic energy flow also vary systematically with habitat depth. Results showed that phytoplankton biomass and production were only weakly related to phytoplankton growth rates whereas other processes (transport, consumption) were important controls. Distribution of the invasive clam Corbicula fluminea was patchy, and heavily colonized habitats all supported low phytoplankton biomass and production and functioned as food sinks. Surplus primary production in shallow, uncolonized habitats provided potential subsidies to neighboring recipient habitats. Zooplankton in deeper habitats, where grazing exceeded phytoplankton production, were likely supported by significant fluxes of phytoplankton biomass from connected donor habitats. Our results provide three important lessons for ecosystem science: (a) in the absence of process measurements, derived indices provide valuable information to improve our mechanistic understanding of ecosystem function and to benefit adaptive management strategies; (b) the benefits of some ecosystem functions are displaced by water movements, so the value of individual habitat types can only be revealed through a regional perspective that includes connectedness among habitats; and (c) invasive species can act as overriding controls of habitat function, adding to the uncertainty of management outcomes.
40928216|Rising atmospheric CO concentration will affect belowground processes and forest function. However, the direction and magnitude of change for many soil processes are unknown. We used minirhizotrons to observe fine root and fungal dynamics in response to elevated CO in a model regenerating longleaf pine community in open-top chambers. The model community consisted of five plant species common to xeric sandhills longleaf pine stands: Pinus palustris, Quercus margaretta, Aristida strkta, Crotalaria rotundifolia, and Asclepias tuberosa. Elevated CO significantly increased both fine root and mycorrhizal tip standing crop by more than 50% in the deeper soil horizon (17-34 cm). Rhizomorph standing crop was nearly doubled in both deep and shallow soil (P= 0.04). Survivorship results for fine roots and rhizomorphs varied between soil depths. Fine root survivorship was likely influenced more by changes in community composition and species interactions driven by elevated CO rather than by direct effects of elevated CO on the fine roots of individual species. In this system, it appears that elevated CO led to a greater reliance on fungal symbionts to meet additional nutrient requirements rather than substantially increased root growth.
25053866|Lake-level fluctuations are common in the North American Great Plains region, where large-scale climate systems (El Nio, the Pacific Decadal Oscillation) and periodic droughts cause substantial hydrologic variability in both summer and winter. To date, most such research has focused on the effects of summer droughts on prairie lake ecosystems; therefore, we studied the impact of water-level decline during winter on ecosystem structure and function. Specifically, we hypothesized that lower lake levels during winter would increase anoxia, freezing and scouring of benthos, fish kills, herbivory by zooplankton, and nutrient release from sediments. In addition, we tested the hypothesis that winter droughts may initiate a switch between alternative stable states (turbid, clear). Physical, chemical, and biological variables were monitored from 1996 to 2001 in both Wascana Lake, which experienced a 50% decline in lake level, and Buffalo Pound Lake, where water levels were constant. A combination of before-after-control-impact (BACI) and multivariate analyses showed that drawdown resulted in elevated
3658732|This paper proposes a hypothesis that relates biodiversity, community biomass, and ecosystem function to a gradient of stress. According to this hypothesis, biodiversity has a low threshold of response to stress, whereas biomass and function are stable or increase under low to moderate stress and decrease only under high stress. This hypothesis was tested by examining communities of primary producers in streams under stress from mine drainage in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado, USA. Mine drainage exerts chemical stress (low pH, dissolved metals) as well as physical stress (deposition of metal oxides) on stream biota. Diversity of primary producers was usually more sensitive to stress from mine drainage than community biomass (chlorophyll a) or primary production. Diversity was negatively related to all stresses from mine drainage, but it was especially low in streams with low pH or high concentration of dissolved zinc. Biomass and production were high in streams with only chemical stress, but they were often low in streams with physical stress caused by metal oxide deposition. Stream sites with aluminum oxide deposition usually had very little algal biomass. The rate of metal oxide deposition, presence of aluminum oxides, and pH together explained 65% of the variation in biomass. The rate of net primary production was highly correlated with biomass and had a similar response to stress from mine drainage. Overall, chemical stresses (low pH, high concentration of zinc) generally led to the hypothesized trends in our model of ecosystems under stress. Physical stress (deposition of metal oxides), however, led to variable responses, and often decreased biomass and function even at low intensity, contrary to the original hypothesis. Thus, the nature of ecosystem response to stress may differ for chemical and physical stresses.
40603653|Paniculate organic matter transported from rivers to estuaries (POM R ) varies quantitatively and qualitatively across estuaries; however, a lack of comparative studies poses a challenge in general understanding of responses of estuarine food webs to POM R input. We studied 20 estuarine tidal flats of the Pacific Northwest coast of North America, with watershed areas ranging from 7 to 8000 km. We used carbon-stable isotope (C) to test the hypothesis that the nutritional contribution of P0M R to macrobenthos is proportional to relative abundances of POM R in tidal flat sediments. The predominant origin of total POM (TPOM) in tidal flat sediments generally shifted from marine-origin POM (POM M ) to POM R as watershed area increased; however, terrestrial-origin POM R with high C/N predominated sediment TPOM even in estuaries with small watershed areas. Some macrobenthos species assimilated POM sources in proportion to sediment TPOM composition, and incorporated POM R in POM R -predominant sediments. These species were considered to have low food selectivity; however, the relative nutritional contribution of POM R to these macrobenthos was still lower than the fraction of POM R in sediment TPOM. Other species disproportionately utilized POM M and/or benthic microalgae regardless of the relative abundance of P0M R , indicating their high food selectivity. The species-specific, low-or highfood selectivity was likely linked with depositfeeding and filter-feeding, respectively. Hence, our hypothesis was supported conditionally. Our findings indicate that watershed area, relative abundance of POM R in an estuary, and food selectivity of estuarine species are key factors controlling the tightness of linkage between watersheds and estuarine food webs.
43677517|Ecosystems in the tropics are predicted to have stronger responses to nutrient enrichment, greater diversity, and more intense biotic interactions than in temperate areas. Mangrove forests, which occur across a broad biogeographic range from warm temperate to tropical, provide a unique opportunity to test these hypotheses by investigating the responses of herbivores to nutrient enrichment in temperate versus tropical latitudes. Mangroves are complex intertidal ecosystems with spatial differences in structure and diversity along tidal gradients and are threatened globally by human activities including nutrient over-enrichment. In this study, we used long-term fertilization experiments at the Indian River Lagoon, FL; Twin Cays, Belize; and Bocas del Toro, Panam to determine how increased nutrients impact herbivore abundance and herbivory of Rhizophora mangle at the tree, forest, and regional scales. At these locations, which span approximately 2185 km and 18.4 of latitude, we fertilized individual trees with one of three treatments (Control, +N, +P) in two zones (fringe, scrub) along transects perpendicular to the shoreline and measured their responses for 4 years. Herbivory was measured as folivory, loss of yield, and tissue mining. Although nutrient enrichment altered plant growth, leaf traits, and nutrient dynamics, these variables had little effect on folivory at any location. Our results did not support the prediction that herbivory and per capita consumption are greatest at the most tropical location. Instead, folivory was highest at the most temperate location and lowest at the intermediate location. Folivory was generally higher in the fringe than in the scrub zone, but the pattern varied by location, herbivore, and nutrient treatment. Folivory by a dominant herbivore, Aratus pisonii, decreased from the highest to the lowest latitude. Our data suggest that factors controlling population dynamics of A. pisonii cascade to the mangrove canopy, linking herbivory to crab densities.
41505870|Urban areas are growing in size and importance; however, we are only beginning to understand how the process of urbanization influences ecosystem dynamics. In particular, there have been few assessments of how the land-use history and age of residential soils influence carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) pools and fluxes, especially at depth. In this study, we used 1-m soil cores to evaluate soil profile characteristics and C and N pools in 32 residential home lawns that differed by previous land use and age, but had similar soil types. These were compared to soils from eight forested reference sites. Residential soils had significantly higher C and N densities than nearby forested soils of similar types (6.95 vs. 5.44 kg C/m and 552 vs. 403 g N/m, P < 0.05). Results from our chronosequence suggest that soils at residential sites that were previously in agriculture have the potential to accumulate C (0.082 kg C/m/y) and N (8.3 g N/m/y) rapidly after residential development. Rates of N accumulation at these sites were similar in magnitude to estimated fertilizer N inputs, confirming a high capacity for N retention. Residential sites that were forested prior to development had higher C and N densities than present-day forests, but our chronosequence did not reveal a significant pattern of increasing C and N density over time in previously forested sites. These data suggest that soils in residential areas on former agricultural land have a significant capacity to sequester C and N. Given the large area of these soils, they are undoubtedly significant in regional C and N balances.
43677532|Production, transport, and degradation of terrestrial dissolved organic matter (DOM) influence carbon (C) and nutrient cycling in both soils and down-stream aquatic ecosystems. Here, we assessed the impacts of wildfire on DOM production, composition, and reactivity (biodegradation versus UV degradation) from soils of upland forest and peatland ecosystems. Soil C solubility was lowest for upland char samples, highest from surface soils in unburned spruce stands and decreased with a higher degree of peat humification regardless of fire history. Soil nitrogen (N) became relatively more soluble in both upland and peat soils post-fire, as leachate C/N decreased. Biodegradability was lower for DOM leachates from burned than unburned soils, both in upland and peatland sites. Several DOM composition indices were related to biodegradability; with the strongest relationship for specific UV absorbance at 254 nm (indicator of aromaticity). Parallel factor analysis revealed distinctive characteristics of leachates from burned soils and char that were related to low biodegradability and high UV-mediated losses. Relative to dark incubations, incubation under UV conditions led to greater C losses for highly aromatic leachates, but reduced losses for leachates with low aromaticity. This suggests that UV-mediated degradation could provide a pathway for highly stable terrestrial organic matter, including char, to become rapidly mineralized and released to the atmosphere once it reaches aquatic ecosystems in dissolved form. Together our results demonstrate that wildfire can potentially alter both turnover of DOM in terrestrial soils and linkages between terrestrial and aquatic C cycling through its influence on terrestrial DOM production and composition.
23253689|Regime shifts in stochastic ecosystem models are often preceded by early warning signals such as increased variance and increased autocorrelation in time series. There is considerable theoretical support for early warning signals, but there is a critical lack of field observations to test the efficacy of early warning signals at spatial and temporal scales relevant for ecosystem management. Conditional heteroskedasticity is persistent periods of high and low variance that may be a powerful leading indicator of regime shift. We evaluated conditional heteroskedasticity as an early warning indicator by applying moving window conditional heteroskedasticity tests to time series of chlorophyll-a and fish catches derived from a whole-lake experiment designed to create a regime shift. There was significant conditional heteroskedasticity at least a year prior to the regime shift in the manipulated lake but there was no significant conditional heteroskedasticity in an adjacent reference lake. Conditional heteroskedasticity was an effective leading indicator of regime shift for the ecosystem manipulation.
25622901|In southern California, wildfire is a ubiquitous agent shaping plant communities. Although fire impacts have been widely studied in chaparral-covered uplands, few data are available regarding fire and riparian vegetation. This study provides an example of the impact of a severe fire on riparian habitat. Plant species found in southern California gallery forests are typically adapted to maintaining populations following flood disturbances; we seek to determine whether structural and compositional changes following fire here demonstrate a similar quasi-equilibrium response. We sampled 65 quadrats on 11 transects along two streams in the Los Padres National Forest to characterize tree species sizeclass distributions before and after the 2002 Wolf Fire. We tested whether species exhibited differential patterns of survivorship and regeneration following the fire, and also tested for spatial variability in mortality within the floodplain. Alnus rhombifolia dominated the pre-fire forest, but experienced severe mortality in the fire and showed very limited resprouting after 3 years. Other prominent taxa (Populus, Salix, Quercus spp.) also lost considerable standing basal area, but had substantially greater rates of resprouting, resulting in a dramatically altered post-fire vegetation composition and structure. Fire impacts did not vary with landform position, leading to a distinctive homogenizing disturbance that contrasts with the spatially zoned and relatively stabilizing compositional influence that flood events have in this same riparian setting.
3658795| Theories of forest nitrogen (N) cycling suggest that stream N losses should increase in response to chronic elevated N deposition and as forest nutrient requirements decline with age. The latter theory was supported initially by measurements of stream NO
27823740|Efforts to conserve, restore, or otherwise manage large rivers and the services they provide are hindered by limited understanding of the functional dynamics of these systems. This shortcoming is especially evident with regard to trophic structure and energy flow. We used natural abundances of carbon and nitrogen isotopes to examine patterns of material flow in ten large-river food webs characterized by different landscape-scale hydrologic characteristics (low-gradient river, high-gradient river, river stretches downstream of reservoirs, and reservoirs), and tested predictions from three ecosystem concepts commonly applied to large-rivers: The River Continuum Concept, The Flood Pulse Concept and the Riverine Productivity Model. Carbon derived from aquatic C3 plants and phytoplankton were the dominant energy sources supporting secondary consumers across the ten large-river food webs examined, but relative contributions differed significantly among landscape types. For low-gradient river food webs, aquatic C3 plants were the principal carbon source, contributing as much as 80% of carbon assimilated by top consumers, with phytoplankton secondarily important. The estimated relative importance of phytoplankton was greatest for food webs of reservoirs and river stretches downriver from impoundments, although aquatic C3 plants contributed similar amounts in both landscape types. Highest 99th percentile source contribution estimates for C4 plants and filamentous algae (both approximately 40%) were observed for high-gradient river food webs. Our results for low-gradient rivers supported predictions of the Flood Pulse Concept, whereas results for the three other landscape types supported the Riverine Productivity Model to varying degrees. Incorporation of landscape-scale hydrologic or geomorphic characteristics, such as river slope or floodplain width, may promote integration of fluvial ecosystem concepts. Expanding these models to include hydrologically impacted landscapes should lead to a more holistic understanding of ecosystem processes in large-river systems.
3658932|Numerous pollen records provide evidence for the widespread range expansion of Alnus throughout Alaska and adjacent Canada during the middle Holocene. Because Alnus can fix atmospheric N
3658888|Ecosystems may exist in more than one state. This provocative ecological theory was initially developed and addressed largely through modeling studies, but over the last 2 decades a number of diverse ecosystems have been shown to display alternate states. Here I present data from 30 lakes located in a relatively limited geographic region (Alberta, Canada) to seek evidence for alternate states in shallow prairie lakes. The lakes that I surveyed fell into the following three clusters based on their turbidity and maximum depth: (a) deep, relatively clear dimictic lakes, (b) shallow clear polymictic lakes, and (c) shallow turbid polymictic lakes. The shallow lakes had similar proportions of lake bottom supporting the growth of rooted submerged macrophytes, yet the macrophyte biomass was approximately five times higher in shallow clear lakes than in shallow turbid lakes. An analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) revealed that there was a significantly higher concentration of chlorophyll per unit of dissolved phosphorus in shallow lakes classified as turbid compared to those classified as clear. A separate ANCOVA also showed that the higher turbidity in the turbid lakes was not due simply to higher
41505989|In Mediterranean-continental regions, changes in land use are leading to the expansion of valuable habitats like endemic Juniperus thurifera woodlands, but the impact of reduced rainfall, due to climate change, on this expansion remains uncertain. We assessed the early performance of J. thurifera in different global change scenarios with and without facilitation. Saplings were transplanted in three ecosystems types with different previous land use (woodlands, former agricultural fields, and former livestock pastures), microhabitats (open vs. understory of adult trees) and were subjected to two watering regimens. We characterized the abiotic environment and measured survival, growth and two ecophysiological parameters. Former livestock pastures were the least favorable ecosystem, where the nursing effect was greatest. Former agricultural fields had the highest survival, but were more sensitive than woodlands to water scarcity. Reduced rainfall decreased photochemical efficiency, particularly in the least favorable scenarios, but did not affect survival. Water use efficiency enhanced growth under the canopy, but not in the open, whereas photochemical efficiency enhanced growth and survival more in the open. Facilitation was critical for effective recruitment in the harshest scenarios: former livestock pastures and reduced rainfall. Comparison with previous studies suggests that establishment depends on infrequent wet episodes. In Mediterranean ecosystems, changes in land use and climate change are leading to woodland expansion due to the modulating effect of facilitation of the oncoming adverse drier conditions. Nevertheless, the positive effect of facilitation and the negative impact of aridity on tree recruitment are strongly influenced by previous land-use history.
40928213|Boreal and subarctic peatlands have been extensively studied for their major role in the global carbon balance. However, study efforts have so far neglected the contribution of these ecosystems to the non-methane biogenic volatile organic compound (BVOC) emissions, which are important in the atmospheric chemistry and feedbacks on climate change. We aimed at estimating the BVOC emissions from a subarctic peatland in northern Finland. Furthermore, our aim was to assess how these emissions are affected by enhanced UV-B radiation, the amount of which has increased especially at high latitudes as a result of stratospheric ozone depletion. The contribution of BVOC emissions to the total net carbon exchange and correlations between the emission of different BVOCs and net ecosystem CO exchange, CH emission, total green leaf area, and abiotic factors were also studied. The UV-B exposure, simulating a 20% depletion of stratospheric ozone, was started in 2003, and measurements were performed during the growing seasons of 2006 and 2008. The subarctic peatland proved to be a small source of BVOCs and the dominant moss, Warnstorfla exannulata, emitted a diverse compound spectrum. The water table level exerted a major influence on the BVOC emissions surpassing the effect of enhanced UV-B. In fact, no overall UV-B effect was established on the BVOC emissions, apart from toluene and 1-octene, emissions of which were doubled and tripled by enhanced UV-B in 2008, respectively. The contribution of BVOCs to the total net carbon exchange was below 1 %.
27823746|Using a 50-year-old field experiment, we investigated the effects of the long-term land management practices of repeated burning and grazing on peatland vegetation and carbon dynamics (C). Plant community composition, C stocks in soils and vegetation, and C fluxes of CO2, CH4 and DOC, were measured over an 18-month period. We found that both burning and grazing reduced aboveground C stocks, and that burning reduced C stocks in the surface peat. Both burning and grazing strongly affected vegetation community composition, causing an increase in graminoids and a decrease in ericoid subshrubs and bryophytes relative to unburned and ungrazed controls; this effect was especially pronounced in burned treatments. Soil microbial properties were unaffected by grazing and showed minor responses to burning, in that the C:N ratio of the microbial biomass increased in burned relative to unburned treatments. Increases in the gross ecosystem CO2 fluxes of respiration and photosynthesis were observed in burned and grazed treatments relative to controls. Here, the greatest effects were seen in the burning treatment, where the mean increase in gross fluxes over the experimental period was greater than 40%. Increases in gross CO2 fluxes were greatest during the summer months, suggesting an interactive effect of land use and climate on ecosystem C cycling. Collectively, our results indicate that long-term management of peatland has marked effects on ecosystem C dynamics and CO2 flux, which are primarily related to changes in vegetation community structure.
25470398|Spatially heterogeneous environments are generally characterized by nested landscape patterns with resource aggregations on several scales. Empirical studies indicate that such nested landscape patterns impose selection constraints on the perceptive scales of animals, but the underlying selection mechanisms are unclear. We investigated the selection dynamics of perceptive scale within a spatial resource utilization model, where the environment is characterized by its resource distribution and species differ in their perceptive scales and resource preemption capabilities. Using three model landscapes with various resource distributions, we found that the optimal perceptive scale is determined by scale-specific attributes of the landscape pattern and that the number of coexisting species increases with the number of characteristic scales. Based on the results of this model, we argue that resource aggregations on different scales act as distinct resources and that animal species of particular perceptive scales are superior in utilizing resource aggregations of comparable spatial extent. Due to the allometric relationship between body size and perceptive scale, such fitness difference might result in discontinuous body mass distributions.
40296299|The ability of an ecosystem to retain anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition is dependent upon plant and soil sinks for N, the strengths of which may be altered by chronic atmospheric N deposition. Sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.), the dominant overstory tree in northern hardwood forests of the Lake States region, has a limited capacity to take up and assimilate NO. However, it is uncertain whether long-term exposure to NO deposition might induce NO uptake by this ecologically important overstory tree. Here, we investigate whether 10 years of experimental NO deposition (30 kg N ha y) could induce NO uptake and assimilation in overstory sugar maple (approximately 90 years old), which would enable this species to function as a direct sink for atmospheric NO deposition. Kinetic parameters for NH4 + and NO uptake in fine roots, as well as leaf and root NO reductase activity, were measured under conditions of ambient and experimental NO deposition in four sugar maple-dominated stands spanning the geographic distribution of northern hardwood forests in the Upper Lake States. Chronic NO 3 ~ deposition did not alter the V max or K m for NOand NH uptake nor did it influence  reductase activity in leaves and fine roots. Moreover, the mean V max for NH uptake (5.15 nmol N g; h;) was eight times greater than the Vmax for NO uptake (0.63 mol N g; h;), indicating a much greater physiological capacity for NH uptake in this species. Additionally, NO reductase activity was lower than most values for woody plants previously reported in the literature, further indicating a low physiological potential for NO assimilation in sugar maple. Our results demonstrate that chronic NO deposition has not induced the physiological capacity for NO uptake and assimilation by sugar maple, making this dominant species an unlikely direct sink for anthropogenic NO deposition.
41505992|Despite efforts to understand the factors that determine soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks in terrestrial ecosystems, there remains little information on how SOC turnover time varies among ecosystems, and how SOC turnover time and C input via plant production, differentially contribute to regional patterns of SOC stocks. In this study, we determined SOC stocks (gC m) and used soil radiocarbon measurements to derive mean SOC turnover time (years) for 0-10 cm mineral soil at ten sites across North America that included arctic tundra, northern boreal, northern and southern hardwood, subtropical, and tropical forests, tallgrass and shortgrass prairie, mountain grassland, and desert. SOC turnover time ranged 36-fold among ecosystems, and was much longer for cold tundra and northern boreal forest and dry desert (1277-2151 years) compared to other warmer and wetter habitats (59-353 years). Two measures of C input, net aboveground production (NAP), determined from the literature, and a radiocarbon-derived measure of C flowing to the 0-10 cm mineral pool, I, were positively and SOC turnover time was negatively associated with mean annual evapotranspiration (ET) among ecosystems. The best fit model generated from the independent variables NAP, I, annual mean temperature and precipitation, ET, and clay content revealed that SOC stock was best explained by the single variable I. Overall, these findings indicate the primary role that C input and the secondary role that C stabilization play in determining SOC stocks at large regional spatial scales and highlight the large vulnerability of the global SOC pool to climate change.
40296305|Regular spatial patterns of sharply bounded ridges and hollows are frequently observed in peatlands and ask for an explanation in terms of underlying structuring processes. Simulation models suggest that spatial regularity of peatland patterns could be driven by an evapotranspiration-induced scale-dependent feedback (locally positive, longer-range negative) between ridge vegetation and nutrient availability. The sharp boundaries between ridges and hollows could be induced by a positive feedback between net rate of peat formation and acrotelm thickness. Theory also predicts how scale-dependent and positive feedbacks drive underlying patterns in nutrients, hydrology, and hydrochemistry, but these predictions have not yet been tested empirically. The aim of this study was to provide an empirical test for the theoretical predictions; therefore, we measured underlying patterns in nutrients, hydrology, and hydrochemistry across a maze-patterned peatland in the Great Vasyugan Bog, Siberia. The field data corroborated predicted patterns as induced by scaledependent feedback; nutrient concentrations were higher on ridges than in hollows. Moreover, diurnal dynamics in water table level clearly corresponded to evapotranspiration and showed that water levels in two ridges were lower than in the hollow in between. Also, the data on hydrochemistry suggested that evapotranspiration rates were higher on ridges. The bimodal frequency distribution in acrotelm thickness indicated sharp boundaries between ridges and hollows, supporting the occurrence of a positive feedback. Moreover, nutrient content in plant tissue was most strongly associated with acrotelm thickness, supporting the view that positive feedback further amplifies ridge-hollow differences in nutrient status. Our measurements are consistent with the hypothesis that the combination of scale-dependent and positive feedback induces peatland patterning.
3658596| Climate and biophysical regulation of terrestrial plant production and interannual responses to anomalous events were investigated using the NASA Ames model version of CASA (Carnegie-Ames-Stanford Approach) in a transient simulation mode. This ecosystem model has been calibrated for simulations driven by satellite vegetation index data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) over the mid-1980s. Relatively large net source fluxes of carbon were estimated from terrestrial vegetation about 6 months to 1 year following El Nio events of 1983 and 1987, whereas the years 1984 and 1988 showed a drop in net primary production (NPP) of 1-2 Pg (
3658796|Current natural resource management seldom takes the ecosystem functions performed by organisms that move between systems into consideration. Organisms that actively move in the landscape and connect habitats in space and time are here termed "mobile links." They are essential components in the dynamics of ecosystem development and ecosystem resilience (that is, buffer capacity and opportunity for reorganization) that provide ecological memory (that is, sources for reorganization after disturbance). We investigated the effects of such mobile links on ecosystem functions in aquatic as well as terrestrial environments. We identify three main functional categories: resource, genetic, and process linkers and suggest that the diversity within functional groups of mobile links is a central component of ecosystem resilience. As the planet becomes increasingly dominated by humans, the magnitude, frequency, timing, spatial extent, rate, and quality of such organism-mediated linkages are being altered. We argue that global environmental change can lead to (a) the decline of essential links in functional groups providing pollination, seed dispersal, and pest control; (b) the linking of previously disconnected areas, for example, the spread of vector-borne diseases and invasive species; and (c) the potential for existing links to become carriers of toxic substances, such as persistent organic compounds. We conclude that knowledge of interspatial exchange via mobile links needs to be incorporated into management and policy-making decisions in order to maintain ecosystem resilience and hence secure the capacity of ecosystems to supply the goods and services essential to society.
40928229|To ameliorate local and coastal eutrophication, management agencies are increasingly turning to wetland restoration. A large portion of restoration is occurring in areas that were drained for agriculture. To recover wetland function these areas must be reflooded and disturbances to soils, including high nutrient content due to past fertilizer use, loss of organic matter and soil compaction, must be reversed. Here, we quantified nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) retention and transformation in a unique large-scale (440 ha) restored wetland in the North Carolina coastal plain, the Timberlake Restoration Project (TLRP). For 2 years following restoration, we quantified water and nutrient budgets for this former agricultural field. We anticipated that TLRP would export high concentrations of inorganic P immediately following reflooding, while retaining or transforming inorganic N. In the first 2 years after a return to the precipitation and wind-driven hydrology, TLRP retained or transformed 97% of NO-N, 32% of TDN, 25% of NH-N, and 53% of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) delivered from inflows and precipitation, while exporting 20% more dissolved organic nitrogen (DON), and 13% more total P (inorganic, organic, and paniculate P) than inputs. Areal mass retention rates of N and P at TLRP were low compared to other restored wetlands; however, the site efficiently retained pulses of fertilizer NO-N derived from an upstream farm. This capacity for retaining N pulses indicates that the potential nutrient removal capacity of TLRP is much higher than measured annual rates. Our results illustrate the importance of considering both organic and inorganic forms of N and P when assessing the benefits of wetland restoration. We suggest that for wetland restoration to be an efficient tool in the amelioration of coastal eutrophication a better understanding of the coupled movement of the various forms of N and P is necessary.
25053815|Soils represent the primary biotic sink for atmospheric methane
27823662|Eutrophication due to high anthropogenic nutrient loading has greatly impacted ecological processes in marine coastal waters and, therefore, much effort has been put into reducing nitrogen and phosphorus discharges into European and North-American waters. Nutrient enrichment usually resulted in increase of biomass and production of phytoplankton and microphytobenthos, often coinciding with shifts in species composition within the primary producer community. Consequences of increasing eutrophication for higher trophic levels are still being disputed, and even less is known about the consequences of nutrient reduction on coastal food webs. Here, we present 30-year concurrent field observations on phytoplankton, macrozoobenthos and estuarine birds in the Dutch Wadden Sea, which has been subject to decades of nutrient enrichment and subsequent nutrient reduction. We demonstrate that long-term variations in limiting nutrients (phosphate and silicon) were weakly correlated with biomass and more strongly with community structures of phytoplankton, macrozoobenthos and estuarine birds. Although we cannot conclusively determine if, and if so to what extent, nutrient enrichment and subsequent nutrient reduction actually contributed to the concurrent trends in these communities, it appears likely that part of the variance in the studied coastal communities is related to changes in nutrient loads. Our results imply that nutrient reduction measures should not ignore the potential consequences for policies aimed at bird conservation and exploitation of marine living resources.
40296321|To date, studies examining the impact of agriculture on freshwater systems have been spatially confined (that is, single drainage basin or regional level). Across regions, there are considerable differences in a number of factors, including geology, catchment morphometry, and hydrology that affect water quality. Given this heterogeneity, it is unknown whether agricultural activities have a pervasive impact on lake trophic state across large spatial scales. To address this issue, we tested whether the proportion of agricultural land in a catchment (% Agr) could explain a significant portion of the variation in lake water quality at a broad inter-regional scale. As shallow, productive systems have been shown to be particularly susceptible to eutrophication, we further investigated how lake mean depth modulates the relationship between % Agr and lake total phosphorus (TP) concentration. We applied both traditional metaanalytic techniques and more sophisticated linear mixed-effects models to a dataset of 358 temperate lakes that spanned an extensive spatial gradient (5E to 73W) to address these issues. With metaanalytical techniques we detected an across-study correlation between TP and % Agr of 0.53 (onetailed P-value = 0.021). The across-study correlation coefficient between TP and mean depth was substantially lower (r=-0.38; P= 0.057). With linear mixed-effects modeling, we detected amongstudy variability, which arises from differences in pre-impact (background) lake trophic state and in the relationship between lake mean depth and lake TP. To our knowledge, this is the first quantitative synthesis that defines the influence of agriculture on lake water quality at such a broad spatial scale. Syntheses such as these are required to define the global relationship between agricultural land-use and water quality.
3658777|Nitrogen (N) has been considered a limiting nutrient to many aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. However, human activity has resulted in increased atmospheric N deposition worldwide such that N pollution is now altering ecosystem function in many locations. Research on atmospheric deposition has focused primarily on inorganic nitrogen (DIN;
41505872|Agricultural drainage is thought to alter greenhouse gas emissions from temperate peatlands, with CH emissions reduced in favor of greater CO losses. Attention has largely focussed on C trace gases, and less is known about the impacts of agricultural conversion on NO or global warming potential. We report greenhouse gas fluxes (CH, CO, NO) from a drained peatland in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, California, USA currently managed as a rangeland (that is, pasture). This ecosystem was a net source of CH (25.8  1.4 mg CH-C m d) and NO (6.4  0.4 mg NO-N m d). Methane fluxes were comparable to those of other managed temperate peatlands, whereas NO fluxes were very high; equivalent to fluxes from heavily fertilized agroecosystems and tropical forests. Ecosystem scale CH fluxes were driven by "hotspots" (drainage ditches) that accounted for less than 5% of the land area but more than 84% of emissions. Methane fluxes were unresponsive to seasonal fluctuations in climate and showed minimal temporal variability. Nitrous oxide fluxes were more homogeneously distributed throughout the landscape and responded to fluctuations in environmental variables, especially soil moisture. Elevated CH and NO fluxes contributed to a high overall ecosystem global warming potential (531 g CO-C equivalents m y), with non-CO trace gas fluxes offsetting the atmospheric "cooling" effects of photoassimilation. These data suggest that managed Delta peatlands are potentially large regional sources of greenhouse gases, with spatial heterogeneity in soil moisture modulating the relative importance of each gas for ecosystem global warming potential.
23253686|In many coastal areas, marine ecosystems have shifted into contrasting states having reduced ecosystem services (hereafter called degraded). Such degraded ecosystems may be slow to revert to their original state due to new ecological feedbacks that reinforce the degraded state. A better understanding of the way human actions influence the strength and direction of feedbacks, how different feedbacks could interact, and at what scales they operate, may be necessary in some cases for successful management of marine ecosystems. Here we synthesize interactions of critical feedbacks of the degraded states from six globally distinct biomes: coral reefs, kelp forests, seagrass beds, shallow soft sediments, oyster reefs, and coastal pelagic food webs. We explore to what extent current management captures these feedbacks and propose strategies for how and when (that is, windows of opportunity) to influence feedbacks in ways to break the resilience of the degraded ecosystem states. We conclude by proposing some challenges for future research that could improve our understanding of these issues and emphasize that management of degraded marine states will require a broad socialecological approach to succeed.
3658870|To assess the long-term effects of atmospheric deposition on forest floor chemical composition, we took quantitative samplings of L-(Oi), F-(Oe), and H-(Oa) layers at an old-growth sugar maple-yellow birch stand on a till soil at the Turkey Lakes Watershed near Lake Superior, Ontario, Canada, in 1981 and 1996. We then assessed these samples for contents of organic matter (OM), total N, K, Ca, Mg, S, and Na, and exchangeable NH
41505962|Evapotranspiration (ET) from tropical ecosystems is a major constituent of the global land-atmosphere water flux and strongly influences the global hydrological cycle. Most previous studies of ecosystem ET have been conducted predominantly in tropical forests, and only few observations cover other tropical land-use types such as pastures, croplands, savannas or plantations. The objectives of our study were: (1) to estimate daily, monthly, and annual ET budgets in a tropical pasture and an adjacent afforestation site, (2) to assess diurnal and seasonal patterns of ET, (3) to investigate environmental controls of ET, and (4) to evaluate the soil infiltration potential. We performed eddy covariance measurements of ecosystem ET in Sardinilla (Panama) from 2007 to 2009. Daily ET (2.6  1.0 mm day) was significantly lower in the pasture compared to the afforestation site (3.0  0.9 mm day). The highest ET was observed during the wet-dry transition period in both ecosystems. However, differences in daily ET between sites were relatively small, particularly during the wet season. Radiation was the main environmental control of ET at both sites, however, we observed considerable seasonal variation in the strength of this control, which was stronger during the wet compared to the dry season. In 2008, total annual ET was only slightly higher for the afforestation (1114 mm y) than the pasture site (1034 mm y). Our results suggest that afforestation of pasture only marginally increases ecosystem-scale ET 6-8 years after establishment. Differences in soil infiltration potentials between our sites seem to explain this pattern.
23501472|Wildfire and clearcutting are two main disturbances in North American forests, but whether root systems may respond differently to such disturbances is unknown. Here, we studied how the dynamics of fine roots ( <2 mm in diameter) varied with stand origins in a boreal forest in northern Ontario, Canada. Fine root biomass increased with stand age, but did not differ between stands originating from fire and clearcutting. By contrast, fine root production, mortality and turnover rates were lower in 3- and 11-year-old clearcut-origin than fire-origin stands, but did not differ in 29-year-old stands of different stand origins. The lower rates of production, mortality, and turnover rates in 3- and 11-year-old clearcut-origin than fire-origin stands are attributable to a lower density of shrubs and herbs and larger nutrient pools after clearcutting than fire. The similarities among 29-year-old stands indicate that the effects of stand origin on fine root processes tend to converge at this time scale. Our results illustrate that time scale is critical for assessing ecosystem responses to disturbances.
3659003|Tsuga heterophylla (western hemlock), a fire-sensitive, late-successional tree species, is an important component of old-growth forests in the Pacific Northwest, USA. In the Oregon Coast Range, however, T. heterophylla occurs at low densities in or is completely absent from many conifer stands. We used a cellular automata-based simulation model to explore the influences of the fire regime and gap disturbances on T. heterophylla dynamics at a landscape scale. The abundance of T. heterophylla in the simulated landscape was particularly sensitive to variation in fire return interval and fire severity. T. heterophylla was less sensitive to canopy gap return interval, probability of recruitment in canopy gaps, and the probability of rare long-distance dispersal events. Relatively short periods of high fire frequency caused a rapid and persistent decline in the amount of T. heterophylla in the landscape. Based on the simulation results, we propose two new hypotheses. The first is that landscape-level constraints imposed by the frequency, severity, and pattern of wildfires will limit the potential for gap-level processes to affect T. heterophylla regeneration patterns at the landscape scale. The second, related hypothesis is that legacies of cumulative fire effects will have a strong influence on the subsequent development of late-successional forest structure.
23253741|Carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) are strongly coupled across ecosystems due to stoichiometrically balanced assimilatory demand as well as dissimilatory processes such as denitrification. Microorganisms mediate these biogeochemical cycles, but how microbial communities respond to environmental changes, such as dissolved organic carbon (DOC) availability, and how those responses impact coupled biogeochemical cycles in streams is not clear. We enriched a stream in central Indiana with labile DOC for 5 days to investigate coupled C and N cycling. Before, and on day 5 of the enrichment, we examined assimilatory uptake and denitrification using whole-stream 15 N-nitrate tracer additions and short-term nitrate releases. Concurrently, we measured bacterial and denitrifier abundance and community structure. We predicted N assimilation and denitrification would be stimulated by the addition of labile C and would be mediated by increases in bacterial activity, abundance, and a shift in community structure. In response to the twofold increase in DOC concentrations in the water column, N assimilation increased throughout the enrichment. Community respiration doubled during the enrichment and was associated with a change in bacterial community structure (based on terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms of the 16S rRNA gene). In contrast, there was little response in denitrification or denitrifier community structure, likely because labile C was assimilated by heterotrophic communities on the stream bed prior to reaching denitrifiers within the sediments. Our results suggest that coupling between C and N in streams involves potentially complex interactions with sediment texture and organic matter, microbial community structure, and possibly indirect biogeochemical pathways.
3658775|Cultural eutrophication of lakes caused by excess phosphorus (P) loading from agricultural areas is a persistent and serious environmental problem. We quantified P flows in a watershed-lake ecosystem using a simple mathematical model that coupled in-lake and upland processes to assess and compare the long-term impacts of various management strategies. Our model compares abatement by in-lake strategies (such as increasing the flux of P from algae to consumers and alum application) with riparian management to decrease P flow and with balancing P budgets at the watershed scale. All of these strategies are effective to some extent. However, only reducing the amount of fertilizer P imported to the watershed will decrease the total P in the system at steady state. Soil P-a large reservoir with slow turnover rate-governs long-term flux to the lake and must be decreased in size to maintain long-term control of eutrophication.
41505869|Ecosystem acidification and eutrophication resulting from increased deposition of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) are issues of increasing global concern. Consequently, costly policy decisions are being implemented to decrease nitrogen oxide (NO x ) emissions. Although declining DIN deposition along with rapid declines of DIN in surface waters have been reported in parts of Europe, the same observation is just emerging in North America. Here we find a significant decline in bulk deposition NO during the later part of a 28-year record in southcentral Ontario, Canada. Despite high N retention and substantial inter-annual variability in the long-term record due to periods of drought, we find significant declines in annual NO concentrations and export at six out of 11 streams that drain upland-dominated catchments. In contrast, five streams draining primarily wetland-dominated catchments with lower levels of NO show no decreasing trend in NO concentration or export. The rapid response in stream NO to declining atmospheric inputs was observed at sites with historically moderate inputs of DIN (~870 mg m y) in bulk deposition. Topographic features such as slope, and related catchment features including wetland cover, appear to influence which catchments will respond positively to declining DIN deposition. These findings force us to revise our original conceptualization of the N saturation status of these catchments.
27823670|The age-dependent variability of ecosystem carbon (C) fluxes was assessed by measuring the net ecosystem exchange of C (NEE) in five managed forest stands in northern Wisconsin, USA. The study sites ranged in age from 3-year-old clearcut to mature stands (65 years). All stands, except the clearcut, accumulated C over the study period from May to October 2002. Seasonal NEE estimates were 655  17.5 g C m2 in the mature hardwood (MHW), 648  16.8 in the mature red pine (MRP), 195  15.6 in the pine barrens (PB), +128  17.1 in the young hardwood clearcut (YHW), and 313  14.6 in the young red pine (YRP). The age-dependent differences were similar in the hardwood and conifer forests. Even though PB was not part of either the hardwood or conifer chronosequence, and had a different disturbance agent, it still fits the same general age relationship. Higher ecosystem respiration (ER) in the young than in the mature stands was the combined result of earlier soil warming in spring, and higher temperature and greater biological activity in summer, as indicated by temperature-normalized respiration rates. The fire-generated PB had lower ER than the harvest-generated YHW and YRP, where high ER was sustained partly on account of logging residue. During the main growing season, the equivalent of 31 (MHW), 48 (MRP), 68 (PB), 114 (YHW) and 71% (YRP) of daily gross ecosystem production (GEP) was released in ER during the same day. The lower ER:GEP ratio in the mature stands was driven by greater age-dependent changes in ER than GEP. The magnitude of the increase in ER:GEP ratio in spring and fall was interpreted as the extent of the decoupling of ER and GEP. Decoupling (sustained high ER despite decreasing GEP) was observed in YHW, PB and MHW, whereas in coniferous stands (MRP and YRP) the stable ER:GEP ratio suggested preferential use of new photosynthates in ER. The results indicate that a great part of the variation in landscape-level C fluxes can be accounted for by mean stand age and associated parameters, which highlights the need to consider this source of heterogeneity in regional C balance estimates.
23325679|Tundra vegetation is responding rapidly to on-going climate warming. The changes in plant abundance and chemistry might have cascading effects on tundra food webs, but an integrated understanding of how the responses vary between habitats and across environmental gradients is lacking. We assessed responses in plant abundance and plant chemistry to warmer climate, both at species and community levels, in two different habitats. We used a long-term and multisite warming (OTC) experiment in the Scandinavian foresttundra ecotone to investigate (i) changes in plant community composition and (ii) responses in foliar nitrogen, phosphorus, and carbon-based secondary compound concentrations in two dominant evergreen dwarf-shrubs (Empetrum hermaphroditum and Vaccinium vitis-idaea) and two deciduous shrubs (Vaccinium myrtillus and Betula nana). We found that initial plant community composition, and the functional traits of these plants, will determine the responsiveness of the community composition, and thus community traits, to experimental warming. Although changes in plant chemistry within species were minor, alterations in plant community composition drive changes in community-level nutrient concentrations. In view of projected climate change, our results suggest that plant abundance will increase in the future, but nutrient concentrations in the tundra field layer vegetation will decrease. These effects are large enough to have knock-on consequences for major ecosystem processes like herbivory and nutrient cycling. The reduced food quality could lead to weaker trophic cascades and weaker top down control of plant community biomass and composition in the future. However, the opposite effects in forest indicate that these changes might be obscured by advancing tree-line forests.
3658763|We analyzed the spatial heterogeneity in vegetation indices among 13 North American landscapes by using full Landsat Thematic Mapper images. Landscapes varied broadly in the statistical distribution of vegetation indices, but were successfully ordinated by using a measure of central tendency (the mean) and a measure of dispersion (the standard deviation or the coefficient of variation). Differences in heterogeneity among landscapes were explained by their topographic relief and their land cover. Landscape heterogeneity (standard deviation of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index, NDVI) tended to increase linearly with topographic relief (standard deviation of elevation), but landscapes with low relief were much more heterogeneous than expected from this relationship. The latter were characterized by a large proportion of agricultural land. Percent agriculture, in turn, was inversely related to topographic relief. The strength of these relationships was evaluated against changes in image spatial resolution (grain size). Aggregation of NDVI images to coarser grain size resulted in steady decline of their standard deviation. Although the relationship between landscape heterogeneity and explanatory variables was generally preserved, rates of decrease in heterogeneity with grain size differed among landscapes. A spatial autocorrelation analysis showed that rates of decrease were related to the scale at which pattern is manifested. On one end of the spectrum are agricultural, low-relief landscapes with low spatial autocorrelation and small-scale heterogeneity associated with fields; their heterogeneity decreased sharply as grain size increased. At the other end, desert landscapes were characterized by low small-scale heterogeneity, high spatial autocorrelation, and almost no change in heterogeneity as grain sized was increased-their heterogeneity, associated with land forms, was present at a large scale.
27823768|Whether plant invasion increases ecosystem carbon (C) stocks is controversial largely due to the lack of knowledge about differences in ecophysiological properties between invasive and native species. We conducted a field experiment in which we measured ecophysiological properties to explore the response of the ecosystem C stocks to the invasion of Spartina alterniflora (Spartina) in wetlands dominated by native Scirpus mariqueter (Scirpus) and Phragmites australis (Phragmites) in the Yangtze Estuary, China. We measured growing season length, leaf area index (LAI), net photosynthetic rate (Pn), root biomass, net primary production (NPP), litter quality and litter decomposition, plant and soil C and nitrogen (N) stocks in ecosystems dominated by the three species. Our results showed that Spartina had a longer growing season, higher LAI, higher Pn, and greater root biomass than Scirpus and Phragmites. Net primary production (NPP) was 2.16 kg C m2 y1 in Spartina ecosystems, which was, on average, 1.44 and 0.47 kg C m2 y1 greater than that in Scirpus and Phragmites ecosystems, respectively. The litter decomposition rate, particularly the belowground decomposition rate, was lower for Spartina than Scirpus and Phragmites due to the lower litter quality of Spartina. The ecosystem C stock (20.94 kg m2) for Spartina was greater than that for Scirpus (17.07 kg m2), Phragmites (19.51 kg m2) and the mudflats (15.12 kg m2). Additionally, Spartina ecosystems had a significantly greater N stock (698.8 g m2) than Scirpus (597.1 g m2), Phragmites ecosystems (578.2 g m2) and the mudflats (375.1 g m2). Our results suggest that Spartina invasion altered ecophysiological processes, resulted in changes in NPP and litter decomposition, and ultimately led to enhanced ecosystem C and N stocks in the invaded ecosystems in comparison to the ecosystems with native species.
3658701|We describe existing models of the relationship between species diversity and ecological function, and propose a conceptual model that relates species richness, ecological resilience, and scale. We suggest that species interact with scale-dependent sets of ecological structures and processes that determine functional opportunities. We propose that ecological resilience is generated by diverse, but overlapping, function within a scale and by apparently redundant species that operate at different scales, thereby reinforcing function across scales. The distribution of functional diversity within and across scales enables regeneration and renewal to occur following ecological disruption over a wide range of scales.
40793007|Land-use change in peatlands affects important drivers of CH 4 emission such as groundwater level and nutrient availability. Due to the high spatial and temporal variability of such environmental drivers, it is hard to make good predictions of CH 4 emissions in the context of land-use changes. Here, we used plant species composition as a stable integrator of environmental drivers of CH 4 emissions. We used weighted averaging regression and calibration to make a direct link between plant species composition and CH 4 flux in an effort to predict values of CH 4 emission for a land-use gradient in two extensive peatland sites. Our predicted CH 4 emissions showed good fit with observed values. Additionally, we showed that a quick characterization of vegetation composition, by the dominant species only, provides equally good predictions of CH 4 emissions. The use of mean groundwater level alone for predicting emissions showed the same predictive power as our models. However, water level showed strong variability in time. Furthermore, the inverse relationship between water level and CH 4 emission can lead to higher errors in predictions at sites with higher CH 4 emission. The performance of our model was comparable with those of mechanistic models developed for natural wetland ecosystems. However, such mechanistic models require complex input parameters that are rarely available. We propose the use of plant species composition as a simple and effective alternative for deriving predictions of CH 4 emissions in peatlands in the context of land-use change.
3658850|We investigated gap dynamics within a shallow subtidal landscape characterized by seagrass vegetation and examined the relationship between gap formation and selected physical factors. The study was conducted over 2 y by using a biannual mapping of seagrass and water depth across an
23501474|Peatlands and forested wetlands can cover a large fraction of the land area and contain a majority of the regional carbon pool in wet northern temperate landscapes. We used the LANDIS-II forest landscape succession model coupled with a model of plant community and soil carbon responses to water table changes to explore the impacts of declining water table on regional carbon pools in a peatland- and wetland-rich landscape in northern Wisconsin, USA. Simulations indicated that both biomass accumulation and soil decomposition would increase as a consequence of drying. In peatlands, simulated water table declines of 100 cm led to large increases in biomass as well as short-term increases in soil carbon, whereas declines of 40 cm led to continuous declines in soil carbon and smaller increases in biomass, with the net result being a loss of total carbon. In non-peat wetlands, biomass accumulation outweighed soil carbon loss for both scenarios. Long-term carbon cycle responses were not significantly affected by the time scale of water table decline. In general, peatland carbon storage over the first 50150 years following drainage was neutral or increasing due to increased plant growth, whereas carbon storage over longer time scales decreased due to soil carbon loss. Although the simplicity of the model limits quantitative interpretation, the results show that plant community responses are essential to understanding the full impact of hydrological change on carbon storage in peatland-rich landscapes, and that measurements over long time scales are necessary to adequately constrain landscape carbon pool responses to declining water table.
3658667| Tropical soils account for 10%-20% of the 15-35 Tg of atmospheric methane ( CH
27823763|Dynamic landscape models have generally assumed random distributions of habitat although real landscapes show spatial organization at many scales. To explore the role of spatial structure in determining the frequency of dispersal-limited forest species, we used a cellular landscape model divided into two zones. Zones were distributed in a random, clustered, or regular spatial pattern. Within each zone habitat cells were randomly destroyed and regenerated, and habitat density and turnover rate were systematically varied. A hypothetical habitat-limited species dispersed between adjacent habitat cells. All trials showed a reduced species frequency relative to a static landscape. Reduction was greater at low habitat density (P = 0.30) than at high density (0.90) suggesting the importance of habitat connectivity in controlling species frequency. The greatest reduction occurred when habitat was concentrated in a small, regularly distributed zone at low habitat density reflecting the enforced isolation of individual habitat cells. Very little reduction was observed when habitat cells were packed into a small clustered zone, a situation promoting connectivity between cells. Moderatesevere frequency reduction occurred when habitat turnover was concentrated in a clustered zone at high habitat density, but little was observed when turnover was widely distributed in a regular or random pattern. These results can be interpreted in terms of a source-sink function in which spatial pattern controlled the degree of contact between landscape zones and determined opportunities for dispersal between habitat cells. We conclude that clustering of forest habitat has the potential to maintain herb species frequency in sparsely forested landscapes. Conversely, clustering of forest disturbance in heavily forested regions, or regular distribution of forest stands (as often occurs in agricultural regions) creates areas which are difficult to colonize, and should be avoided.
43677524|This study aimed to assess the combined effects of long-term nitrogen (N) supply and nitrogen deposition (Ndep) on carbon (C) accumulation within Sitka spruce [Picea sitchensis (Bong.) Carr.] plantations in Scotland. Six study sites established from 1970 to 1982 were periodically N-fertilized, monitored over time and commonly surveyed in 2010. Soil, aboveground biomass, and ground vegetation C stock changes were analyzed; aboveground C experienced at each site, that is, the sum of experimental N supply (Nadd) and site-specific accumulated Ndep from 1900 to 2010. Results showed a positive N effect on aboveground tree C stock and no decline in tree growth was observed either during fertilization or after the latest N addition. The amount of C in litter was significantly higher in experimentally N-treated plots, whereas the amount of C in understory vegetation was higher in control plots. Pooling all the compartments (that is, understory vegetation, litter, soil, and tree biomass) the total ecosystem C content was estimated for each site, and at most sites a higher C stock was estimated for N-treated plots. Differences in aboveground C accumulation rates between treated and control plots were lower at sites with high levels of accumulated Ndep. Our results indicate that site-specific accumulated Ndep should be considered to understand tree growth responses to N fertilization.
40928224|We used dendroecological techniques to analyze the effects of rainfall and grazing on fire regime and its implications for tree regeneration in subtropical mountains of northwestern Argentina during the 20th century, a period characterized by increasing rainfall and decreasing land-use intensity. We dated fire scars and establishment of Alnus acuminata (the dominant tree species) in six watersheds along a 600 km latitudinal range. We correlated fire frequency with rainfall records and performed Superposed Epoch Analyses to assess the relationship between rainfall and fire events during the century, and in two sub-periods: 1930-1965 (low rainfall, high grazing) and 1966-2001 (high rainfall, low grazing). We performed permutation analyses to assess the association between fire events and tree establishment, and to describe the spatial distribution of fires and forests in relation to hillslope aspect. Rainfall was associated with regional fires at interannual and decadal scales: fire probability increased after growing seasons with above-average rainfall and through the century, in concurrence with rainfall increase. The climatic control of fire was stronger under lower land-use intensity. Tree establishment was temporally associated with fire events, which occurred mainly in north facing slopes, where grassland cover is more extensive and forest colonization more likely. These results suggest that fire is limited by the availability of fine fuels, which is enhanced by high rainfall and reduced grazing; and tree establishment is limited by the competition with grasses. Consequently, increasing rainfall and decreasing grazing favored higher fire frequency, thus promoting forest encroachment during 20th century.
3658854|Growing disillusion with the predictive capability of single species fisheries assessment methods and the realization that the management approaches they imply will always fail to protect bycatch species has led to growing interest in the potential of marine protected areas (MPAs) as a tool for protecting such species and allowing for rebuilding populations of target species and damaged habitat. Ecospace is a spatially explicit model for policy evaluation that allows for considering the impact of MPAs in an ecosystem (that is, trophic) context, and that relies on the Ecopath mass-balance approach for most of its parameterization. Additional inputs are movement rates used to compute exchanges between grid cells, estimates of the importance of trophic interactions (top-down vs bottom up control), and habitat preferences for each of the functional groups included in the model. An application example, including the effect of an MPA, and validation against trawl survey data is presented in the form of a color map illustrating Ecospace predictions of biomass patterns on the shelf of Brunei Darussalam, Southeast Asia. A key general prediction of Ecospace is spatial "cascade" effects, wherein prey densities are low where predators are abundant, for example, in protected areas or areas where fishing costs are high. Ecospace also shows that the potential benefits of local protection can be easily negated by high movement rates, and especially by concentration of fishing effort at the edge of the MPAs, where cascade effects generate prey gradients that attract predators out of the protected areas. Despite various limitations (for example, no explicit consideration of seasonal changes or directed migration), the outward simplicity of Ecospace and the information-rich graphs it generates, coupled with the increasingly global availability of the required Ecopath files, will likely ensure a wide use for this approach, both for generating hypotheses about ecosystem function and evaluating policy choices.
3658928|The introduction of salmonid fishes into naturally fishless lakes represents one of the most prevalent environmental modifications of aquatic ecosystems in western North America. Introduced fish may alter lake nutrient cycles and primary production, but the magnitude and variation of these effects have not been fully explored. We used bioenergetics modeling to estimate the contributions of stocked trout to phosphorus (P) cycles across a wide range of fish densities in lakes of the Sierra Nevada, California. We also assessed the larger effects of fish-induced changes in phosphorus cycling on primary production using paleolimnological analyses from lakes in the southern Canadian Rockies. Our analyses showed that total P recycling by fish was independent of fish density but positively related to fish biomass in the Sierra Nevada. In lakes with fish populations maintained by continued stocking, fish recycled P at over twice the rate of those in lakes where introduced fish populations are maintained by natural reproduction and stocking has been discontinued. We estimate that P regeneration by introduced fishes is approximately equivalent to atmospheric P deposition to these lakes. Paleolimnological analyses indicated that algal production increased substantially following trout introductions to Rocky Mountain lakes and was maintained for the duration of fish presence. The results of our modeling and paleolimnological analyses indicate that introduced trout fundamentally alter nutrient cycles and stimulate primary production by accessing benthic P sources that are not normally available to pelagic communities in oligotrophic mountain lakes. These effects pose a difficult challenge for managers charged with balancing the demand for recreational fisheries with the need to maintain natural ecosystem processes.
41505948|We assessed the spatial variability in both, surface carbon dioxide (CO) fluxes and in pelagic respiration rates in a newly created 600-km boreal reservoir, located in Northern Quebec. We show that total CO emission to the atmosphere was highest in the first year after flooding, and that surface fluxes were spatially heterogeneous. This spatial heterogeneity was not random, but was linked to the preflood landscapes: reservoir areas overlying former peatbogs and mature forests had the highest average emissions, whereas areas overlying former nonforest and burned soils had the lowest emissions. Total reservoir emissions appeared to decline exponentially in the next 2 years, and so did the degree of spatial heterogeneity in surface fluxes, suggesting a progressive weakening of the link to the pre-flood landscapes, and a homogenization of reservoir processes. We show that pelagic respiration rates were also initially high and spatially heterogeneous, the latter linked to the pre-flood landscapes. A simple, first-order mass balance for the first 3 years after flooding was used to derive potential benthic CO production rates, and thus to apportion the total reservoir emissions between its pelagic and benthic components. Extrapolation of the observed declines (normal exponential) in total emission, as well as of the underlying pelagic and benthic fluxes, results in a large underestimation of the fluxes for the fourth year, relative to the measured emissions. We postulate that the initial exponential decline in total emissions is driven primarily by the patterns of decomposition of surface plant biomass, whereas at later stages emission is increasingly dominated by sediment and pelagic respiration, which decline in time at a slower rate.
25053873|Rivers can provide important sources of energy for riparian biota. Stable isotope analysis
23501297|Local observations, repeat photos, and broad-scale remote sensing suggest that tall shrubs are becoming an increasingly dominant component of Low Arctic ecosystems. This shift has the potential to alter the surface energy balance through changes to the surface albedo, snow accumulation and melt, and ground thermal regimes. However, to date there have been few quantitative estimates of the rate of tall shrub expansion. We used soft copy stereo visualization of air photos to map fine-scale changes in tall shrub tundra and green alder density in the upland tundra north of Inuvik, NT between 1972 and 2004. We also used 2004 photos to map tall shrub tundra in areas affected by fires that occurred between 1960 and 1968. To assess the potential impact of vegetation change on microclimate, we used pyranometers to measure albedo and net solar radiation, thermistors attached to data loggers to record ground temperatures, and field surveys to record winter snow conditions in three common vegetation types. Fine-scale mapping shows that green alder stem density has increased by 68% (24.1) since 1972. Average tall shrub tundra cover has also increased by 15% (3.6) since 1972. Historical tundra fires had the highest proportion of tall shrub cover of all areas mapped using 2004 photos, ranging from 92 to 99%. Based on these results, we suggest that predicted increases in the size and frequency of tundra fire are likely to drive rapid shrub proliferation in the Low Arctic. Shrub-dominated sites have decreased albedo, increased net solar radiation, deeper snow pack, and elevated near-surface ground temperatures, indicating that continued increases in shrub cover will affect regional climate, hydrology, permafrost temperatures, and terrain stability.
27823700|Mapping biological diversity is a high priority for conservation research, management and policy development, but few studies have provided diversity data at high spatial resolution from remote sensing. We used airborne imaging spectroscopy to map woody vascular plant species richness in low-land tropical forest ecosystems in Hawai'i. Hyper-spectral signatures spanning the 4002,500 nm wavelength range acquired by the NASA Airborne Visible and Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (AVIRIS) were analyzed at 17 forest sites with species richness values ranging from 1 to 17 species per 0.10.3 ha. Spatial variation (range) in the shape of the AVIRIS spectra (derivative reflectance) in wavelength regions associated with upper-canopy pigments, water, and nitrogen content were well correlated with species richness across field sites. An analysis of leaf chlorophyll, water, and nitrogen content within and across species suggested that increasing spectral diversity was linked to increasing species richness by way of increasing biochemical diversity. A linear regression analysis showed that species richness was predicted by a combination of four biochemically-distinct wavelength observations centered at 530, 720, 1,201, and 1,523 nm (r2 = 0.85, p < 0.01). This relationship was used to map species richness at approximately 0.1 ha resolution in lowland forest reserves throughout the study region. Future remote sensing studies of biodiversity will benefit from explicitly connecting chemical and physical properties of the organisms to remotely sensed data.
3658841|The efflux of carbon from soils is a critical link between terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere. Current concerns about rising atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
40296324|Extreme weather events are expected to increase in frequency and magnitude due to climate change. Their effects on vegetation are widely unknown. Here, experimental grassland and heath communities in Central Europe were exposed either to a simulated single drought or to a prolonged heavy rainfall event. The magnitude of manipulations imitated the local 100-year weather extreme according to extreme value statistics. Overall productivity of both plant communities remained stable in the face of drought and heavy rainfall, despite significant effects on tissue die-back. Grassland communities were more resistant against the extreme weather events than heath communities. Furthermore, effects of extreme weather events on community tissue die-back were modified by functional diversity, even though conclusiveness in this part is limited by the fact that only one species composition was available per diversity level within this case study. More diverse grassland communities exhibited less tissue die-back than less complex grassland communities. On the other side, more diverse heath communities were more vulnerable to extreme weather events compared to less complex heath communities. Furthermore, legumes did not effectively contribute to the buffering against extreme weather events in both vegetation types. Tissue die-back proved a strong stress response in plant communities exposed to 100-year extreme weather events, even though one important ecosystem function, namely productivity, remained surprisingly stable in this experiment. Theories and concepts on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning (insurance hypothesis, redundancy hypothesis) may have to be revisited when extreme weather conditions are considered.
25470345|Productivity of aridland plants is predicted to increase substantially with rising atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) concentrations due to enhancement in plant water-use efficiency (WUE). However, to date, there are few detailed analyses of how intact desert vegetation responds to elevated CO. From 1998 to 2001, we examined aboveground production, photosynthesis, and water relations within three species exposed to ambient (around 38 Pa) or elevated (55 Pa) CO concentrations at the Nevada Desert Free-Air CO Enrichment (FACE) Facility in southern Nevada, USA. The functional types sampled-evergreen (Larrea tridentata), drought-deciduous (Ambrosia dumosa), and winter-deciduous shrubs (Krameria erecta)-represent potentially different responses to elevated CO in this ecosystem. We found elevated CO significantly increased aboveground production in all three species during an anomalously wet year (1998), with relative production ratios (elevated:ambient CO) ranging from 1.59 (Krameria) to 2.31 (Larrea). In three below-average rainfall years (1999-2001), growth was much reduced in all species, with only Ambrosia in 2001 having significantly higher production under elevated CO. Integrated photosynthesis (mol CO m y) in the three species was 1.26-2.03-fold higher under elevated CO in the wet year (1998) and 1.32-1.43-fold higher after the third year of reduced rainfall (2001). Instantaneous WUE was also higher in shrubs grown under elevated CO. The timing of peak canopy development did not change under elevated CO; for example, there was no observed extension of leaf longevity into the dry season in the deciduous species. Similarly, seasonal patterns in CO assimilation did not change, except for Larrea. Therefore, phenological and physiological patterns that characterize Mojave Desert perennials-early-season lags in canopy development behind peak photosynthetic capacity, coupled with reductions in late-season photosynthetic capacity prior to reductions in leaf area-were not significantly affected by elevated CO. Together, these findings suggest that elevated CO can enhance the productivity of Mojave Desert shrubs, but this effect is most pronounced during years with abundant rainfall when soil resources are most available.
3658975|Complex environmental and ecological problems require collaborative, interdisciplinary efforts. A common approach to integrating disciplinary perspectives on these problems is to develop simulation models in which the linkages between system components are explicitly represented. There is, however, little guidance in the literature on how such models should be developed through collaborative teamwork. In this paper, we offer a set of heuristics (rules of thumb) that address a range of challenges associated with this enterprise, including the selection of team members, negotiating a consensus view of the research problem, prototyping and refining models, the role of sensitivity analysis, and the importance of team communication. These heuristics arose from a comparison of our experiences with several interdisciplinary modeling projects. We use one such experience-a project in which natural scientists, social scientists, and local residents came together to investigate the sustainability of small indigenous communities in the Arctic-to illustrate the heuristics.
3658935|Streams are important sites of nutrient transport and transformation in the landscape but little is known about the way in which individual taxa or individual habitats (riffles and pools) influence nutrient dynamics within stream reaches. We used 5-week additions of a stable isotope
3658819|We use archaeological, historical, ecological, and fisheries data to identify three distinct and sequential phases in the trophic structure of kelp forests in the western North Atlantic's Gulf of Maine. Phase 1 is characterized by vertebrate apex predators such as Atlantic cod, haddock, and wolffish and persisted for more than 4,000 years. Phase 2 is characterized by herbivorous sea urchins and lasted from the 1970s to the 1990s. Phase 3 is dominated by invertebrate predators such as large crabs and has developed since 1995. Each phase change resulted directly or indirectly from fisheries-induced "trophic-level dysfunction," in which populations of functionally important species at higher trophic levels fell below the densities necessary to limit prey populations at lower trophic levels. By using fractional trophic-level analysis, we found that phase changes occurred rapidly (over a few years to a few decades) as well as relatively recently (over the past half-century). Interphase durations have declined as fishing effects have accelerated in recent years. The naturally low species diversity of the kelp forest ecosystem we studied may facilitate rapid changes because the redundancy within each trophic level is low. If the biodiversity within controlling trophic levels is a buffer against trophic-level dysfunction, then our observations from Maine may be predictive of the fate of other, more diverse systems. If fishing successively targets most, or all, strong interactors at higher trophic levels, then as those population densities decline, the potential for trophic-level dysfunction and associated instabilities will increase.
41505959|Though typically limited in aerial extent, soils of high-elevation riparian wetlands have among the highest density of soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) of terrestrial ecosystems and therefore contribute disproportionally to ecosystem services such as water retention, forage production, wildlife habitat, and reactive N removal. Because much soil C and N is stored in labile forms in anaerobic conditions, management activities or environmental changes that lead to drying cause mineralization of labile soil organic matter, and loss of C and N. Meadows are focal points of human activities in mountain regions, often with incised stream channels from historically heavy grazing exacerbated by extreme runoff events. To quantify soil C and N stores in montane riparian meadows across hydrologie conditions, 17 meadows between 1950-and 2675-m elevation were selected in the central Sierra Nevada Range, California, that were classified using the proper functioning condition (PFC) system. Results indicate that C and N density in whole-solum soil cores were equivalent at forest edge positions of properly functioning, functioning at-risk, and nonfunctioning condition. Soils under more moist meadow positions in properly functioning meadows have at least twice the C, N, dissolved organic C, and dissolved organic N (DON) than those under nonfunctioning meadows. Densities of total N and DON, but not C, of functioning at-risk meadows are significantly lower (P < 0.05) than those of properly functioning meadows at mid-slope and streambank positions, suggesting accelerated loss of N early in degradation processes. Though variable, the soil attributes measured correspond well to the PFC riparian wetland classification system.
3658774|The restoration and rehabilitation of the native fish communities is a long-term goal for the Laurentian Great Lakes. In Lake Superior, the ongoing restoration of the native lake trout populations is now regarded as one of the major success stories in fisheries management. However, populations of the deepwater morphotype (siscowet lake trout) have increased much more substantially than those of the nearshore morphotype (lean lake trout), and the ecosystem now contains an assemblage of exotic species such as sea lamprey, rainbow smelt, and Pacific salmon (chinook, coho, and steelhead). Those species play an important role in defining the constraints and opportunities for ecosystem management. We combined an equilibrium mass balance model (Ecopath) with a dynamic food web model (Ecosim) to evaluate the ecological consequences of future alternative management strategies and the interaction of two different sets of life history characteristics for fishes at the top of the food web. Relatively rapid turnover rates occur among the exotic forage fish, rainbow smelt, and its primary predators, exotic Pacific salmonids. Slower turnover rates occur among the native lake trout and burbot and their primary prey-lake herring, smelt, deepwater cisco, and sculpins. The abundance of forage fish is a key constraint for all salmonids in Lake Superior. Smelt and Mysis play a prominent role in sustaining the current trophic structure. Competition between the native lake trout and the exotic salmonids is asymmetric. Reductions in the salmon population yield only a modest benefit for the stocks of lake trout, whereas increased fishing of lake trout produces substantial potential increases in the yields of Pacific salmon to recreational fisheries. The deepwater or siscowet morphotype of lake trout has become very abundant. Although it plays a major role in the structure of the food web it offers little potential for the restoration of a valuable commercial or recreational fishery. Even if a combination of strong management actions is implemented, the populations of lean (nearshore) lake trout cannot be restored to pre-fishery and pre-lamprey levels. Thus, management strategy must accept the ecological constraints due in part to the presence of exotics and choose alternatives that sustain public interest in the resources while continuing the gradual progress toward restoration.
41505969|Elephant and fire are considered to be among the most important agents that can modify the African savanna ecosystem. Although the synergistic relationship between these two key ecological drivers is well documented, it has proved much more difficult to establish the relative effects they have on savanna vegetation structure at a fine-scale over time. In this study, we explore the comparative impacts of fire and elephant on 2,522 individually identified large trees (> 5 m in height) in the Kruger National Park, South Africa. Data were collected from 21 transects first surveyed in April 2006 and resurveyed in November 2008, to determine the relative importance of past damage by these agents on subsequent impacts and mortality. The occurrence of fire or elephant damage in 2006 affected the amount of tree volume subsequently removed by both these agents; elephant removed more tree volume from previously burned trees and the impact of subsequent fire was higher on previously burned or elephant-utilized trees than on undamaged trees. Mortality was also affected by an interaction between previous and recent damage, as the probability of mortality was highest for trees that suffered from fire or elephant utilization after being pushed over. Subsequent fire damage, but not elephant utilization, on debarked trees also increased the probability of mortality. Mortality was twice (4.6% per annum) that of trees progressing into the > 5 m height class, suggesting an overall decline in large tree density during the 30-month study period. The responses of large trees were species and landscape-specific in terms of sensitivity to elephant and fire impacts, as well as for levels of mortality and progression into the > 5 m height class. These results emphasize the need for fine-scale site-specific knowledge for effective landscape level understanding of savanna dynamics.
3658933|In temperate forests, symbiotic nitrogen (N) fixation is restricted to the early phases of succession despite the persistence of N limitation on production late in succession. This paradox has yet to be explained adequately. We hypothesized that the restriction of N fixation to early stages of succession results from the optimization of resource allocation in the vegetation. Because of this optimization, N fixation should be restricted to periods when fixation is less costly than N uptake. Our analysis differs from others in the way we calculate the cost of N uptake; we assess the cost of N uptake as the amount of carbon (C) that could be assimilated if the resources necessary to acquire one gram of N from the soil were allocated instead to photosynthesis. We then simulate N fixation as an asymptotic function of the difference in cost between N uptake and N fixation and proportional to the abundance of host tissues for the N-fixing symbionts. The factors that contribute to conditions that favor N fixation are (a) elevated-carbon dioxide ( CO
27823767|Metabolic hotspots at landwater interfaces are important in supporting biogeochemical processes. Here we confirm the generality of landaquatic interfaces as biogeochemical hot spots by extending this concept to marine beach cast materials. In situ atmospheric pCO2, from a respiration chamber (10 cm in diameter and 20 cm high) inserted into wrack deposits, was determined using a high-precision (1 ppm) non-dispersive infrared gas analyzer (EGM-4, PP-systems) at 1 minute recording intervals. The wrack deposits supported high metabolic activities, with CO2 fluxes averaging (SE) 6.62  0.88 mol C m2 s1, compared to median value of 0.98 mol C m2 s1 (mean 2.21  1.25 mol C m2 s1) for bare sand adjacent to deposits. Wrack metabolic rates ranged 40-fold across beaches, from a minimum of 0.57  0.22 mol C m2 s1 to a maximum of 20.8  5.04 mol C m2 s1, both derived from beaches with deposits dominated by Sargassum. Rates tended to increase significantly (F test, P < 0.05) from the shoreline to reach maximum rates at about 10 m from the shoreline, declining sharply further from the shoreline, and increased with increasing thickness of the deposits (maximum about 10 cm deep), declining for thicker deposits. Wrack differing in composition had similar metabolic rates, although deposits consisting of a mixture of seagrass and algae tended to show somewhat higher rates. Our results show a meter square of wrack deposit supports a metabolic rate equivalent to that supported by 3 m2 of living seagrass or macroalgal habitat. In wrack, the marine environment provides organic material and moisture and the land environment provides oxygen to render wrack ecosystems an efficient metabolic reactor. Intense wrack metabolism should also be conducive to organismal growth by supporting the development of a cryptic, but diverse wrack-based food web.
25470332|In ecology textbooks prior to the 1970s, Aldo Leopold's classic story of predator control, over-population of deer, and habitat degradation on the Kaibab Plateau during the 1920s epitomized predator regulation of herbivore populations. However, the story disappeared from texts in the late 20th century after several papers noted uncertainties in estimations of the deer population and provided alternative explanations. We re-examined the case study by determining the age structure of aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.) on the plateau. Aspen comprises the majority of deer browse in the summer, and the absence of a normal cohort of aspen from the 1920s would indicate deer over-population. The number of aspen (at 1.4 m) dating to the 1920s was an order of magnitude lower than the null expectation. Other periods of unusual numbers of aspen included high numbers of aspen dating to the 1880s and 1890s (when regular surface fires ceased), few aspen dating from 1953 to 1962 (after a second irruption of the deer population), and very high numbers from 1968 to 1992 (coincident with widespread logging). These convergent lines of evidence support the idea of extreme deer herbivory in the 1920s, consistent with food limitation of deer at high populations (bottom-up control) and predation limitation at low deer populations (top-down control). Some uncertainty remains within the overall story, and this level of ambiguity is common in case studies that involve population ecology, land management, and people at the scale of 1,000 km and 100 years. A complete version of the Kaibab deer story and its history would be a valuable, realistic case study for ecology texts.
3658981|We describe the three-dimensional structure of an old-growth Douglas-fir/western hemlock forest in the central Cascades of southern Washington, USA. We concentrate on the vertical distribution of foliage, crowns, external surface area, wood biomass, and several components of canopy volume. In addition, we estimate the spatial variation of some aspects of structure, including the topography of the outer surface, and of microclimate, including the within-canopy transmittance of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR). The crowns of large stems, especially of Douglas-fir, dominate the structure and many aspects of spatial variation. The mean vertical profile of canopy surfaces, estimated by five methods, generally showed a single maximum in the lower to middle third of the canopy, although the height of that maximum varied by method. The stand leaf area index was around
40296306|Spawning salmon deliver nutrients (salmonderived nutrients, SDN) to natal watersheds that can be incorporated into terrestrial and aquatic food webs, potentially increasing ecosystem productivity. Peterson Creek, a coastal watershed in southeast Alaska that supports several species of anadromous fish, was sampled over the course of a storm during September 2006 to test the hypothesis that stormflows re-introduce stored SDN into the stream. We used stable isotopes and PARAFAC modeling of fluorescence excitation-emission spectroscopy to detect flushing of DOM from salmon carcasses in the riparian zone back into a spawning stream. During the early storm hydrograph, streamwater concentrations of NH 4-N and total dissolved phosphorus (TDP), the fluorescent protein tyrosine and the 5 15 N content of DOM peaked, followed by a rapid decrease during maximum stormflow. Although N has previously been used to track SDN in riparian zones, the use of fluorescence spectroscopy provides an independent indicator that SDN are being returned from the riparian zone to the stream after a period of intermediate storage outside the stream channel. Our findings further demonstrate the utility of using both N of streamwater DOM and fluorescence spectroscopy with PARAFAC modeling to monitor how the pool of streamwater DOM changes in spawning salmon streams.
27823736|Empirical estimates of the function and resilience of communities under different management regimes can provide valuable information for sustainable natural resource management, but such estimates are scarce to date. We quantified the functional richness and relative resilience of bird communities inhabiting five regions in southeastern Australia that represented different management regimes. First, we show that functional richness and relative resilience were reduced at species-poor sites in all regions. Second, we show that bird communities in agricultural regions had fewer body mass groups and fewer functional groups than expected by chance. This suggests that both the function and the resilience of bird communities in agricultural regions were reduced. The likely mechanisms for the observed loss of function and relative resilience are: (1) the simplification of landscape texture resulting in selective extinction of certain body mass groups; and (2) the selective extinction of certain functional groups that are particularly sensitive to intensive land use.
3658964|Boreal forests are composed of a few plant species with contrasting traits with respect to ecosystem functioning and spatial patterning. Early successional deciduous species, such as birch and aspen, disperse seeds widely, do not tolerate low light and nitrogen availabilities, have rapidly decaying litter, and are highly preferred by herbivores. These later succeed to conifers, such as spruce and fir, which disperse seeds locally, tolerate low light levels and low nitrogen availability, have litter that decays slowly, and are unpalatable to most mammalian herbivores. Although there are also early successional conifers, such as jack pine and Scots pine, the aspen-birch-spruce-fir successional sequence is the most common over much of North America, and (without fir) in Fennoscandia and Siberia. The course of succession in these forests is controlled partly by seed dispersal and selective foraging by mammalian herbivores. Both of these processes are spatially dynamic, but little is known about how their spatial dynamics may affect ecosystem processes, such as nitrogen cycling or productivity. We present spatially explicit models that demonstrate the following: (a) Spatially explicit seed dispersal results in more clumped distribution of tree species and persistence of greater paper birch biomass than uniform seed rain across the landscape. Such results are consistent with current spatially explicit population models of dispersal and coexistence. (b) With localized seed dispersal, the concentrations of available soil nitrogen are distributed in larger patches with sharp transitions from low to high nitrogen availability near patch edges. In contrast, with a uniform seed rain, the distribution of soil nitrogen availability was more uniform and "hotspots" were more localized. Thus, the spatial pattern of an ecosystem process (nitrogen cycling) is determined by seed dispersal and competition for light among competing populations. (c) A dispersing herbivore, such as moose, that selectively forages on early successional deciduous species with high quality litter, such as aspen or birch, and discriminates against late successional conifers, such as spruce or fir, imposes higher-order repeated patterns of plant species and biomass distribution on the landscape. Thus, seed dispersal and herbivore foraging correlate properties in adjacent patches but in different ways, and different spatial patterns emerge. Other processes, such as insect outbreaks, fire, and water flow, also may correlate properties between adjacent patches and result in additional patterns.
40296268|High arctic wetlands hold large stores of soil carbon (C). The fate of these C stores in a changing climate is uncertain, as rising air temperatures may differentially affect photosynthesis and ecosystem respiration (ER). In this study, open-top warming chambers were used to increase air and soil temperatures in contrasting microtopographic positions of a high arctic fen in NW Greenland. CO exchange between the ecosystem and the atmosphere was measured on 28 dates over a 3-year period. Measurements of the normalized difference vegetation index, leaf and stem growth, leaf-level gas exchange, leaf nitrogen, leaf 5 13 C, and fine root production were made to investigate the mechanisms and consequences of observed changes in CO exchange. Gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) increased with chamber warming in hollows, which are characterized by standing water, and in hummocks, which extend above the water table. ER, however, increased only in hummocks, such that net ecosystem exchange (NEE) increased in hollows, but did not change in hummocks with chamber warming. Complementary measurements of plant growth revealed that increases in GEP corresponded with increases in C allocation to aboveground biomass in hummocks and belowground biomass in hollows. Our results and those of several recent studies clearly demonstrate that effects of climate change on the C balance of northern wetlands will depend upon microtopography which, in turn, may be sensitive to climate change.
23501443|Nitrogen (N) deposition threatens European Mediterranean ecosystems but investigation and understanding of impacts are limited. We report plant responses from an ongoing field N fertilization experiment conducted in a kermes oak shrubland, where NH 4 NO 3 has been added for 1.5 years at four rates (0, 10, 20, and 50 kg N ha -1 y -1 ). Two annual plants (Asterolinon linum-stellatum and Limonium echiodes) were negatively affected by N fertilization in terms of density and growth. However, responses were only evident when accounting for between-plot differences in soil NO 3 - -N and NH 4 + -N. Responses of A. linum-stellatum to simulated N deposition were also dependent on microhabitat, with the most negative effects found in the interspaces between rosemary shrubs. Negative effects were attributed either to increased soil NH 4 + -N or to a nutritional (N to P) imbalance. Mycorrhizal infection rates were not altered by N addition in the case of L. echioides, whereas mycorrhizal colonization of A. linum-stellatum roots increased with N in those individuals growing under shrub protection. Living cover of rosemary shrubs was also reduced by simulated N deposition as a consequence of a reduced interannual twig growth. Contrary to annual plants, tissue N content and C:N ratios in rosemary were not affected by simulated N deposition. Overall, our data suggest a high sensitivity of plant communities from moderately polluted semiarid Mediterranean shrublands to N deposition, highlight the role of different forms of inorganic N on plant response to N deposition, and support the importance of conducting similar experiments in other Mediterranean areas spanning a wide range of climatic, soil, and background N deposition conditions.
27823749|We present a regional fuel load model (1 km2 spatial resolution) applied in the southern African savanna region. The model is based on a patch-scale production efficiency model (PEM) scaled up to the regional level using empirical relationships between patch-scale behavior and multi-source remote sensing data (spatio-temporal variability of vegetation and climatic variables). The model requires the spatial distribution of woody vegetation cover, which is used to determine separate respiration rates for tree and grass. Net primary production, grass and tree leaf death, and herbivory are also taken into account in this mechanistic modeling approach. The fuel load model has been calibrated and validated from independent measurements taken from savanna vegetation in Africa southward from the equator. A sensitivity analysis on the effect of climate variables (incoming radiation, air temperature, and precipitation) has been conducted to demonstrate the strong role that water availability has in determining productivity and subsequent fuel load over the southern African region. The model performance has been tested in four different areas representative of a regional increasing rainfall gradientEtosha National Park, Namibia, Mongu and Kasama, Zambia, as well as in Kruger National Park, South Africa. Within each area, we analyze model output from three different magnitudes of canopy coverage (<5, 30, and 50%). We find that fuel load ranges predicted by the model are globally in agreement with field measurements for the same year. High rainfall sustains green herbaceous production late in the dry season and delays tree leaf litter production. Effect of water on production varies across the rainfall gradient with delayed start of green material production in more arid regions.
3658694|The sizes of organisms are determined by their interactions with their environment and related ecological and evolutionary processes. Recent studies of body size distributions across communities show evidence for multimodality. The multiple modes were originally explained as a consequence of textural discontinuities in habitat structure. Because communities consist of species that are drawn from lineages, body size patterns within lineages will affect those that are expressed in communities. We used a cellular automation model to argue that multimodality in body sizes within lineages can arise from a few fundamental evolutionary mechanisms alone. We tested the hypothesis using body size data for 138 fish genera and found strong support for the idea that evolution structures body size distributions. The results suggest, first, that we should expect the distribution of body sizes within lineages to be multimodal and second, that a coherent theory of community body size distributions will need to combine both evolutionary and ecological perspectives.
40296300|Computational thinking (CT) is a way to solve problems and understand complex systems that draws on concepts fundamental to computer science and is well suited to the challenges that face researchers of complex, linked social-ecological systems. This paper explores CT's usefulness to sustainability science through the application of the services-oriented architecture (SOA). The SO A is a popular organizational framework in information technology that enables businesses to describe the services they offer, including how, where, to whom, and under what terms these services are available to consumers. It provides a straightforward, scalable, and portable way to describe and organize complex business systems, with an emphasis on system controls and component interactions rather than on the system components themselves. Here, we present the SOA as a path to a more mature ecosystem services concept, in support of integrated assessment frameworks such as the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA). With the SOA we capture important interrelationships among ecosystems, ecosystem service consumers, and ecosystem service governance authorities, particularly the effects of their interactions on the viability of ecosystem services. By standardizing the description and relationships involving ecosystem services, the SOA supports a diagnostic approach for evaluating stability and change in ecosystem service use across both space and time, when influenced by drivers of social, political, and/or ecological change, whether directional or stochastic, planned or otherwise. We present here a prototype of the SOA and illustrate its utility with an example from rural Alaskan communities.
27823659|Restoring soil C pools by reducing land use intensity is a potentially high impact, rapidly deployable strategy for partially offsetting atmospheric CO2 increases. However, rates of C accumulation and underlying mechanisms have rarely been determined for a range of managed and successional ecosystems on the same soil type. We determined soil organic matter (SOM) fractions with the highest potential for sequestering C in ten ecosystems on the same soil series using both density- and incubation-based fractionation methods. Ecosystems included four annual row-crop systems (conventional, low input, organic and no-till), two perennial cropping systems (alfalfa and poplar), and four native ecosystems (early successional, midsuccessional historically tilled, midsuccessional never-tilled, and late successional forest). Enhanced C storage to 5 cm relative to conventional agriculture ranged from 8.9 g C m2 y1 in low input row crops to 31.6 g C m2 y1 in the early successional ecosystem. Carbon sequestration across all ecosystems occurred in aggregate-associated pools larger than 53 m. The density-based fractionation scheme identified heavy-fraction C pools (SOM > 1.6 g cm3 plus SOM < 53 m), particularly those in macroaggregates (>250 m), as having the highest potential C accumulation rates, ranging from 8.79 g C m2 y1 in low input row crops to 29.22 g C m2 y1 in the alfalfa ecosystem. Intra-aggregate light fraction pools accumulated C at slower rates, but generally faster than in inter-aggregate LF pools. Incubation-based methods that fractionated soil into active, slow and passive pools showed that C accumulated primarily in slow and resistant pools. However, crushing aggregates in a manner that simulates tillage resulted in a substantial transfer of C from slow pools with field mean residence times of decades to active pools with mean residence times of only weeks. Our results demonstrate that soil C accumulates almost entirely in soil aggregates, mostly in macroaggregates, following reductions in land use intensity. The potentially rapid destruction of macroaggregates following tillage, however, raises concerns about the long-term persistence of these C pools.
23501479|Decomposition models typically under-predict decomposition relative to observed rates in drylands. This discrepancy indicates a significant gap in our mechanistic understanding of carbon and nutrient cycling in these systems. Recent research suggests that certain drivers of decomposition that are often not explicitly incorporated into models (for example, photodegradation and soillitter mixing; SLM) may be important in drylands, and their exclusion may, in part, be responsible for model under-predictions. To assess the role of SLM, litterbags were deployed in the Chihuahuan Desert and interrelationships between vegetation structure, SLM, and rates of decomposition were quantified. Vegetation structure was manipulated to simulate losses of grass cover from livestock grazing and shrub encroachment. We hypothesized that reductions in grass cover would promote SLM and accelerate mass loss by improving conditions for microbial decomposition. Litter mass decreased exponentially, with the greatest losses occurring in concert with summer monsoons. There were no differences in decay constants among grass cover treatments. A significant, positive relationship between mass loss and SLM was observed, but contrary to expectations SLM was independent of grass cover. This suggests that processes operating at finer spatial scales than those in our grass removal treatments were influencing SLM. Shifts in litter lipid composition suggest increased bacterial contribution to decomposition through time. SLM, which is seldom included as a variable controlling decomposition in statistical or mechanistic models, was a strong driver of decomposition. Results are discussed in the context of other known drivers of decomposition in drylands (for example, UV radiation and climate) and more mesic systems.
25053867|Given the importance of colored dissolved organic matter (CDOM) for the structure and function of lake ecosystems, a method that could estimate the amount of CDOM in lake waters over large geographic areas would be highly desirable. Satellite remote sensing has the potential to resolve this problem. We carried out model simulations to evaluate the suitability of different satellite sensors (Landsat, IKONOS, and the Advanced land Imager [ALI]) to map the amount of CDOM in concentration ranges that occur in boreal lakes of the Nordic countries. The results showed that the 8-bit radiometric resolution of Landsat 7 is not adequate when absorption by CDOM at 420 nm is higher than 3
27823759|This review article describes vectors for nitrogen and phosphorus delivery to riparian zones in semiarid African savannas, the processing of nutrients in the riparian zone and the effect of disturbance on these processes. Semiarid savannas exhibit sharp seasonality, complex hillslope hydrology and high spatial heterogeneity, all of which ultimately impact nutrient fluxes between riparian, upland and aquatic environments. Our review shows that strong environmental drivers such as fire and herbivory enhance nitrogen, phosphorus and sediment transport to lower slope positions by shaping vegetative patterns. These vectors differ significantly from other arid and semiarid ecosystems, and from mesic ecosystems where the impact of fire and herbivory are less pronounced and less predictable. Also unique is the presence of sodic soils in certain hillslopes, which substantially alters hydrological flowpaths and may act as a trap where nitrogen is immobilized while sediment and phosphorus transport is enhanced. Nutrients and sediments are also deposited in the riparian zone during seasonal, intermittent floods while, during the dry season, subsurface movement of water from the stream into riparian soils and vegetation further enrich riparian zones with nutrients. As is found in mesic ecosystems, nutrients are immobilized in semiarid riparian corridors through microbial and plant uptake, whereas dissimilatory processes such as denitrification may be important where labile nitrogen and carbon are in adequate supply and physical conditions are suitablesuch as in seeps, wallows created by animals, ephemeral wetlands and stream edges. Interaction between temporal hydrologic connectivity and spatial heterogeneity are disrupted by disturbances such as large floods and extended droughts, which may convert certain riparian patches from sinks to sources for nitrogen and phosphorus. In the face of increasing anthropogenic pressure, the scientific challenges are to provide a basic understanding of riparian biogeochemistry in semiarid African savannas to adequately address the temporal and spatial impact of disturbances, and to apply this knowledge to better regional land and water management. An integrated, multidisciplinary approach applied in protected as well as human-disturbed ecosystems in southern Africa is essential for underpinning a strong environmental basis for sustainable human-related expansion.
23253733|Earthworm invasion in North American temperate forest reduces forest floor mass, yet the interactions between litter composition, invasive earthworm community composition, and forest floor structure and composition are not well understood. For 2 years, we compared disappearance of leaf litter in field mesocosms in which we manipulated litter composition (monocultures of Quercus rubra, Acer saccharum, and Tilia americana litter, and an equal mixture of all three) and thereby the initial litter chemistry (C, C fractions, N, Ca) in sites with and without the major litter-feeding invasive earthworm species. The disappearance of litter mass followed the same ranking at both the sites: T. americana > equal mixtures > A. saccharum  Q. rubra. However, differences in disappearance rate between the sites depended on litter composition and time. The differences in mass loss among litters of different compositions were greatest at the site invaded by the large litter-feeding earthworm, Lumbricus terrestris, and especially for T. americana and the mixture. Similarly, observed disappearance of the litter mixture was faster than predicted by an additive model at the site with L. terrestris, especially for the higher quality litter component in early summer. Initial litter calcium content was the best predictor (R 2  0.90) of overall litter mass remaining each year, supporting the idea of the importance of calcium in forest floor dynamics, especially in the presence of calciferous, invasive earthworms.
3658897| During the unstratified (winter) and stratified (summer) periods of 1999 and 2000, we examined carbon (C) dynamics in the upper water column of southern Lake Michigan. We found that (a) bacterial respiration (BR) and planktonic respiration (PR) were major sinks for C, (b) C flux through bacteria (CFTB) was diminished in winter because of reduced bacterial production (BP) and increased bacterial growth efficiency (BGE) at colder temperatures, and (c) PR exceeded primary production (PP) during the spring-summer transition. Drawdown of dissolved organic C (DOC), resuspended organic matter from the lake floor, and riverine organic matter likely provided organic C to compensate for this temporal deficit. DOC in the water column decreased between winter and summer (
41413038|Recent warming at high-latitudes has accelerated permafrost thaw in northern peatlands, and thaw can have profound effects on local hydrology and ecosystem carbon balance. To assess the impact of permafrost thaw on soil organic carbon (OC) dynamics, we measured soil hydrologic and thermal dynamics and soil OC stocks across a collapse-scar bog chronosequence in interior Alaska. We observed dramatic changes in the distribution of soil water associated with thawing of ice-rich frozen peat. The impoundment of warm water in collapse-scar bogs initiated talik formation and the lateral expansion of bogs over time. On average, Permafrost Plateaus stored 137  37 kg C m, whereas OC storage in Young Bogs and Old Bogs averaged 84  db 13 kg C m. Based on our reconstructions, the accumulation of OC in near-surface bog peat continued for nearly 1,000 years following permafrost thaw, at which point accumulation rates slowed. Rapid decomposition of thawed forest peat reduced deep OC stocks by nearly half during the first 100 years following thaw. Using a simple mass-balance model, we show that accumulation rates at the bog surface were not sufficient to balance deep OC losses, resulting in a net loss of OC from the entire peat column. An uncertainty analysis also revealed that the magnitude and timing of soil OC loss from thawed forest peat depends substantially on variation in OC input rates to bog peat and variation in decay constants for shallow and deep OC stocks. These findings suggest that permafrost thaw and the subsequent release of OC from thawed peat will likely reduce the strength of northern permafrost-affected peatlands as a carbon dioxide sink, and consequently, will likely accelerate rates of atmospheric warming.
25053810|Ecosystem services-the benefits that people obtain from ecosystems-are essential to human existence, but demands for services often surpass the capacity of ecosystems to provide them. Lack of ecological information often precludes informed decision making about ecosystem services. The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA) was conceived in part to provide the necessary ecological information to decision makers. To this end, the MA set out to address the stated needs and concerns of decision makers and examine the ecological dynamics and uncertainties underlying these concerns. To improve our understanding of their information needs and concerns, we interviewed 59 decision makers from five continents. The respondents indicated that although most people generally agree about the ideal state of the planet-free of poverty and extreme inequality, replete with cultural and biological diversity-they often disagree about the best way to achieve these goals. Further, although nonspecialists are generally concerned about the environment and may have a good understanding of some of issues, they often have a more limited grasp of the ecological dynamics that drive the issues of concern. We identify some of the principal uncertainties about ecosystem dynamics and feedbacks that underlie the concerns of decision makers. Each of the papers in this special feature addresses these ecological feedbacks from the perspective of a specific discipline, suggesting ways in which knowledge of ecological dynamics can be incorporated into the MA's assessment and scenario-building process.
43677539|According to recent climate change scenarios, temperate forests will be increasingly exposed to droughts in the 21st century which are thought to affect productivity. Although decreasing timber yield with reduced precipitation has frequently been reported from temperate forests, the dependence of forest net primary production (NPP) on precipitation is little understood. In a 3-year transect study (2009-2011) carried out in 12 mature beech forests (Fagus sylvatica) along a precipitation gradient (820-540 mm y) in Northern Germany, we measured all aboveground NPP components (NPP; stem wood, leaf mass, flower and fruit production) and analyzed relationships with monthly weather data. Because we measured NPP under a broad range of precipitation levels, drought lengths and mast fruiting intensities, the climatic controls of aboveground productivity and carbon allocation could be analyzed in detail. Despite a significant decrease in annual (and growing season) precipitation sums along the transect, NPP remained largely invariant in each of the years, but varied remarkably between the years (means of 981, 702, 955 g DM m y, respectively). Variation in NPP a was most closely related to current year's early summer weather conditions (June-July), whereas the patterns of biomass allocation to wood, leaf, and fruit production responded to the previous summer's weather. Wood production cannot predict NPP a in beech due to alternative allocation priorities of vegetative and reproductive growth. Our results show that apparent drought-induced reductions in beech timber yield often are the result of allocation shifts toward fruit production triggered by warm and dry weather in the previous summer.
40603414|Long-term nitrogen (N) addition experiments have found positive, negative, and neutral effects of added N on rates of decomposition. A leading explanation for this variation is differential effects of N on the activity of microbially produced extracellular enzymes involved in decomposition. Specifically, it is hypothesized that adding N to N-limited ecosystems increases activity of cellulose degrading enzymes and decreases that of lignin degrading enzymes, and that shifts in enzyme activity in response to added N explain the decomposition response to N fertilization. We measured litter and soil organic matter (SOM) decomposition and microbial enzyme activity in a long-term N fertilization experiment at eight forested and grassland sites in central Minnesota, USA, to determine (1) variation among sites in enzyme activity, (2) variation in the response of enzymes, litter decomposition, and soil respiration to added N, and (3) whether changes in enzyme activity in response to added N explained variability among sites in the effect of N on litter and SOM decomposition. Site differences in pH, moisture, soil carbon, and microbial biomass explained much of the amongsite variation in enzyme activity. Added N generally stimulated activities of cellulose degrading and Nand phosphorus-acquiring enzymes in litter and soil, but had no effect on lignin degrading enzyme activity. In contrast, added N generally had negative or neutral effects on litter and SOM decomposition in the same sites, with no correspondence between effects of N on enzyme activity and decomposition across sites.
23501469|From an ecosystem management perspective, analysis of the functional roles of species is a challenge. It is valuable to determine which species are irreplaceable within a given community based on their contribution to the system's organization. This study relates the emergent functional and structural indices of biological groups estimated from a trophic model of the Northern Gulf of California to identify the roles of these groups in the ecosystem context, with a particular focus on the role of the vaquita, an endemic porpoise in critically endangered status. The simulation of removing each group allowed the analysis of the removal's functional effect on the ecosystem's global attributes and organization (based on Ulanowicz's ascendency concept). Groups from lower trophic levels (TL) were more related to complexity indicators, suggesting their contribution to the organization and structure of energy flows in the food web. Groups from intermediate TL had higher values of structural indexes, indicating their function in the control of flows throughout the network. The vaquita along with other marine mammals, aquatic birds, and some species of fish with a high TL contribute in a similar way to the order (for example, ascendency/capacity-of-development ratio) of the system, showing a relatively high value of ascendency (contribution of the group to the organization inherent to the ecosystem) and the change in ecosystem ascendency when they were removed. The vaquita, like marine and coastal birds, plays a small role in the ecosystem. But like them, it does contribute substantially to ecosystem organization. This study thus provides information potentially useful for management in understanding the species' role and in reducing uncertainty in decision-making.
3658606|The integration of the social sciences into long-term ecological research is an urgent priority. To address this need, a group of social, earth, and life scientists associated with the National Science Foundation's (NSF) Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Network have articulated a conceptual framework for understanding the human dimensions of ecological change for the LTER Network. This framework explicitly advocates that what is often divided into "natural" and human systems be considered a single, complex social-ecological system (SES). In this paper, we propose a list of core social science research areas, concepts, and questions; identify the need for multiscale investigatory frameworks crucial for implementing integrated research; and suggest practical approaches for integration. In sum, this paper is a general outline for empirical and cross-site research projects where investigators agree that bringing together social, biological, and earth scientists can lead to synthetic approaches and a unified understanding of the mechanisms regulating SES. Although the motivation for this goal is specific to the LTER Network and similar projects, we believe that the issues and ideas presented here are widely applicable to other interdisciplinary SES studies.
3658729|How can decision makers reconcile the demand for increasingly reliable services drawn from the environment (including water and power) with the desire for both a better environment and more environmental amenities? In this paper, which is based on US case studies of ecosystem rehabilitation initiatives in the San Francisco Bay-Delta, the Columbia River Basin in the Pacific Northwest, and the Florida Everglades, we focus on several notable problems in current management practice. We assess the role of adaptive management and identify five areas of major innovation by which ecologists and the authorities that operate large water and hydropower systems attempt to reconcile the tension between maintaining service reliability and promoting ecological rehabilitation. The implications of the findings for a wider framework within which ecosystems can be matched to the most appropriate management regime are related specifically to aquatic-terrestrial ecosystems. Finally, we emphasize the importance of redefining ecosystem functions and services so that the inherent conflict between high-reliability services and ecosystem rehabilitation can be reconciled.
41505935|Following fire, fine-scale variation in early successional vegetation and soil nutrients may influence development of ecosystem structure and function. We studied conifer forests burned by stand-replacing wildfire in Greater Yellowstone (Wyoming, USA) to address two questions: (1) How do the variability and spatial structure of aboveground cover and soil nitrogen availability change during the first 4 years following stand-replacing fire? (2) At fine scales (2-20 m), are postfire soil inorganic N pools and fluxes related to aboveground cover? Aboveground cover, soil N pools, and annual net N transformations were measured from 2001 to 2004 using a spatially explicit sampling design in four 0.25-ha plots that burned during summer 2000. Within-stand variability (coefficient of variation) in postfire live vegetative cover declined with time since fire, whereas variability in bare mineral soil, charred litter and fresh litter was greatest 2-3 years postfire. The soil nitrate pool was more variable than the soil ammonium pool, but annual net nitrification was less variable than annual net N mineralization. Spatial structure (quantified by semivariograms) was observed in some aboveground cover variables (for example, graminoids and fresh litter), but there was little spatial structure in soil N variables and no obvious congruence in spatial scales of autocorrelation for soil N and aboveground cover. Significant Spearman correlations (at the sample point) indicated that aboveground cover and soil N were coupled following severe fire, and the dominant influence was from aboveground cover to soil N, rather than from soil N to vegetation. Initial patterns of fire severity and re-vegetation contributed to fine-scale heterogeneity in soil N availability for at least 4 years after severe fire.
27823741|The dynamics of a community are said to be compensatory if aggregate biomass is less variable over time than the biomass of the individual components of the system. In broad terms, the presence of compensation reflects interactions between components that tend to stabilize the overall community. A common quantitative measure used to detect compensation is the ratio of the temporal variance of total biomass to the sum of the biomass variances of the components, with a ratio less than 1 indicative of compensation. The purpose of this note is to describe a test for compensation when the variance ratio is estimated from biomass time series data. The test involves a bootstrap procedure that accounts for serial correlation in biomass. Failure to account for positive serial correlation can lead to spurious detection of compensation. The test is illustrated using biomass data for fish stocks on George Bank.
3658760|Planktonic bacterial production in the tidal freshwater Hudson River is a major component of secondary productivity and is uncoupled from planktonic primary productivity. There are several major sources of allochthonous dissolved organic carbon (DOC) whose potential contribution to heterotrophic bacterial growth was examined with bioassays. Supply of DOC from the upper Hudson drainage basin and a large tributary in the mid-Hudson together comprise 70 kT DOC/year, which is the bulk of the DOC load to the tidal freshwater Hudson River. Two contrasting tidal wetlands contribute DOC to the main-stem river but were only a few percent of the tributary load even during summer low-flow conditions. The quantity of DOC released from fine sediments was intermediate to the other two loadings considered. Bacterial growth in bioassays receiving water from the sources varied, but differences in thymidine incorporation between reference and DOC sources were small, usually less than 2 nmol/L/h. Similarity in thymidine incorporation suggests that all sources of DOC were capable of supporting bacterial growth at approximately equal rates. Seasonal shifts in carbon availability were clear in several cases, for example, greater growth on wetland-derived DOC at times of peak plant productivity. Seasonal differences in tributary DOC bioavailability were not large despite the well-known seasonality of tributary inputs. Activities of a suite of extracellular enzymes were used as a biologically based characterization of DOC from the various sources. Shifts in allocation among enzymes were apparent, indicating that there are biologically relevant differences in composition among the sources. Fluorescence characteristics and absorbance per unit carbon also varied among sources, providing an independent confirmation of compositional differences among sources. The absence of large differences in bacterial productivity among sources suggests that growth is supported by a wide range of DOC, and the relative importance of the sources is probably related to the quantitative differences in inputs. Efforts to classify carbon supplies to ecosystems must recognize that organism plasticity in carbon use and physical mixing processes will both act to homogenize what might initially appear to be quite distinctive carbon inputs.
3659062|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) contains molecules that absorb light at various wavelengths. This chromophoric DOM (CDOM) influences the transmission of both visible and ultraviolet energy through water. The absorption of light by CDOM often causes structural changes that reduce its capacity to further absorb light, a process termed 'photobleaching'. A model was designed to assess photobleaching through the entire water column of lake ecosystems. The model uses lake morphometry and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentration in conjunction with a defined solar spectrum and experimentally measured photobleaching rates to compute the total water columm photobleaching. The model was initially applied to a theoretical 'average' lake using solar spectra for both the north (N) and south (S) temperate western hemispheres and variable DOC from 0.3 to
27823732|Ecological network analysis (ENA) is a modeling approach increasingly being used to examine food webs. However, most studies do not replicate networks, and a statistical evaluation of ENA is lacking. The major objectives of this study, therefore, were to evaluate statistically the effectiveness of ENA in detecting differences in food web properties and to compare ENA output with established community level indices. Quantitative trophic networks (n = 12) representing four high salt marsh ponds during three times (corresponding to low stress, high stress, and post-disturbance) were constructed from an extensive field sampling program augmented by literature values. Food webs of salt marsh ponds were used because these systems contain relatively simple food webs, have well defined boundaries, and allow for adequate replication. A null hypothesis was tested to determine how values of 12 indices from ENA output differed among the three stress/disturbance conditions (Ho: low stress = high stress = post-disturbance). Results of both ANOVA and Friedman's tests indicated most ENA indices were significantly different among the three stress/disturbance conditions. The amount of covariance among the indices was relatively low (7 of 66 were significant). Results were compared to differences in community indices (richness, evenness, and diversity) among the three stress/disturbance conditions. ENA output identified differences beyond those recognized by the community indices. Overall, networks were unique enough under different environmental conditions to provide statistically significant differences in ENA results. Our findings are supportive of the use of carefully constructed networks in food web analysis and for decision making in ecosystem-based management.
3658826|In many tropical and volcanic soils, phosphorus (P) availability is strongly influenced by geochemical sorption, which binds P to soil minerals. The aim of this study was to determine whether biological demand or soil sorption strength was the primary control over phosphate availability and retention in a wet tropical soil with high sorption capacity and low P availability. We added
25470368|Ecological succession has been the subject of intense study and debate throughout the history of ecology as conceptualizations of process were proposed and refined. Modern concepts view ecological succession as largely driven by bottom-up resource competition for light and nutrients. However, growing evidence shows that top-down effects of consumers can govern succession. These contrasting perspectives require synthesis. We offer such a synthesis by revitalizing the hypothesis that succession proceeds by abrupt transitions to alternative states or dynamic regimes. We present evidence from field sampling along two successional gradients in a New England old field aimed at identifying pattern, and from experimentation in the same field aimed at identifying process. Field sampling revealed that a competitive dominant plant existed in a mosaic with two distinct patch types of relative abundances ( 25% and > 30%). Competitive dominant plant abundance varied systematically with plant species diversity (evenness), and resource supply (light and soil nitrogen). The six-year field experiment tested for alternative regimes by systematic removal and staggered reintroduction of top predators. Long-term predator removal caused an abrupt and irreversible shift from a top-down to a bottom-up controlled regime with a breakpoint at approximately 25% relative abundance of the competitive dominant plant. This caused significant shifts in plant species evenness and resource supply (solar radiation and N mineralization rate). Moreover, the competitive dominant abundance, species evenness and resource supply in the two dynamic regimes matched levels in the different patch types in the field. We conclude that a single ecosystem can display both top-down and bottom-up control. Abrupt shifts in trophic control lead to abrupt changes in the rate of development of ecosystems consistent with a working hypothesis that succession proceeds via abrupt regime shifts.
3658721|A suite of physical processes controls the rate at which polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) concentrations change in Lake Michigan fauna. To the extent that these processes are homogenous in space, predator and forage fish species are exposed to the same water column and sediment concentrations of PCB in Lake Michigan, whereas exposure due to diet varies with trophic position. We can think of observed PCB concentrations in a particular species as realizations of an unknown process consisting of many sources of variability. Because all species are utilizing the resources of the same ecosystem, a component of variability of PCB concentration is shared by all organisms in the system, whereas other components are not. Individual species were modeled with parameters that were estimated as the overall, or reference mean and a shared rate of change, plus an individual species offset from that reference mean and shared rate of change. This approach allows species-specific differences to be manifest via the offset, whereas the shared components of variability are known with greater precision than would be possible if we considered only a single species. The objective of this work is to determine the extent to which observed declines in PCB concentrations in various species in the Lake Michigan ecosystem are similar and synchronous. A high degree of similarity and synchrony between species would imply a high degree of spatial homogeneity of the physical processes controlling PCB concentrations in Lake Michigan fauna. A lack of synchrony suggests that other factors, such as food web interactions or spatial patterns, may be important.
41505911|Herring (Clupea harengus) and sprat (Sprattus sprattus) are the key prey resources of common terns (Sterna hirundo) breeding in the Wadden Sea. Breeding success of the terns has been below average since 2002, coinciding with exceptionally low herring recruitment and sprat abundance. Time series of herring and sprat abundance in the North Sea and in the Wadden Sea were analyzed to explain long-term breeding success and chick development at two common tern breeding colonies. North Sea herring recruitment and sprat abundance in the Wadden Sea explained the largest part of common tern breeding success, both as single variables and in a multiple regression approach. Breeding success showed stronger correlations with herring recruitment indices derived from the North Sea region compared to the Wadden Sea. Also, herring and sprat abundance data explained more variability in breeding success than of more directly responding measures such as growth rate and maximum weight of chicks. Despite spatial and temporal incoherences between fish surveys and the common tern breeding season, breeding success of common terns reflected the abundance of their key prey fish beyond their foraging range and breeding season. We argue that the ecological connectivity between large- and small-scale herring abundance and the responsiveness of common tern breeding success is strong enough to establish a fish-seabird indicator system to be potentially valuable in monitoring and conservation.
40928236|Non-nitrogenous mineral nutrients may be an important constraint on forest productivity and belowground processes in many ecosystems. We measured responses of soil CO efflux (FCO), fine root production, and root-free incubation soil respiration to experimental additions of non-nitrogenous mineral nutrients (phosphorus (P) + potassium (K) fertilizer, dolomitic lime, and P + K plus lime) over 2 years in a sugar-maple-dominated forest in central Ontario; this region receives some of the highest anthropogenic nitrogen (N) inputs in North America, and evidence exists for co-limitation by P, magnesium (Mg), and calcium (Ca) of the growth of dominant trees. Soil amendments, in particular P + K fertilization, reduced FCO, fine root production and microbial respiration, with decreases in FCO of 28-51 % in fertilized compared to control plots. Partial regression analyses indicated that soil available P had a negative effect on FCO, fine root production, and microbial respiration, but detected no significant effects of N, Ca, or Mg. Path analysis further suggested that available P reduced both fine root production and microbial respiration, and that these effects were largely responsible for reduced FCO. There was also a residual direct negative relationship between available P and FCO, which may represent reduced metabolic activity of roots. The study indicates that P is a critical nutrient dominating belowground processes in an N-saturated forest ecosystem, and suggests that additions of P may enhance C sink strength in managed forests in part through reductions in soil CO efflux.
3658910|The capture and efficient use of limiting resources influence the competitive success of individual plant species as well as species diversity across resource gradients. In simulations, efficient nutrient acquisition or nutrient retention by species were key predictors of success when nutrients were limiting. Increased nutrient supply favored species with characteristics that improved light interception or light use. Ecological theory suggests that low diversity on fertile sites may be a consequence of competitive exclusion by one or a few species with superior light-interception characteristics. On infertile sites, competitive exclusion may be a function of superior nutrient-acquisition characteristics in species. At intermediate fertility, a shift from single-resource specialization to a balanced effort in the acquisition of multiple resources should allow for greater species diversity. Thus, a unimodal relationship between diversity and nutrient supply, vegetation biomass, or productivity is predicted. However, simulations demonstrated alternate relationships depending on the ecosystem characteristic to which diversity was compared. Diversity was greatest at intermediate total biomass but increased monotonically with net primary production and nitrogen (N) supply. The highest diversity occurred midrange on a scale of community-level leaf area to fine-root length ratios, which in the context of the model indicates that the vegetation as a whole was simultaneously limited by both N and light and that effort toward the acquisition of both resources is distributed in such a way that both resources are equally exploited. Diversity was lowered by the presence of species with a superior ability to sequester resources.
40296409|We re-visited a seven-stand boreal chronosequence west of Thompson, Manitoba, Canada, in which coarse woody debris (CWD) and its instantaneous decomposition were measured in 2000. New CWD measurements were performed in 2007, and tree inventories updated to provide mortality and snag failure data. These data were used to model CWD changes, compare methods of estimating decomposition, and infer possible fragmentation rates. Measured CWD was between 9.7 (in both the 77-and 43-year-old stands) and 80.4 (in the 18-yearold stand) Mg ha in 2007. Spatial variability was high; at most stands CWD levels had not changed significantly from 2000 to 2007. Tree mortality was a significant flux only in older stands, whereas snag fall rate varied by an order of magnitude, from 2.9% y (0.2 Mg ha y) in the 9-year-old stand to 9.8% y (2.3 Mg ha y ) in the 12-year-old stand. A one-pool model based on these inputs underestimated actual 2000-2007 CWD decomposition in the younger stands, suggesting that fragmentation could be an important part of the carbon flux exiting the CWD pool. We compared three independent measures of annual decomposition (k): direct measurements of CWD respiration, rates based on the 7-year re-sampling effort described here, and rates inferred from the chronosequence design itself. Mean k values arrived at via these techniques were 0.06  0.03, 0.05  0.04, and 0.05  0.05 y , respectively. The four-pool model suggested that the transition rate between decay classes was 0.14-0.19 y ; the model was most sensitive to initial CWD values. Although the computed k values implied a problem with chronosequence site selection for at least one site, the overall CWD trend was consistent with a larger number of sites surveyed in the region.
41505990|Grasslands are globally widespread and capable of storing large amounts of carbon (C) in soils, and are generally experiencing increasing atmospheric CO, nitrogen (N) deposition, and biodiversity losses. To better understand whether grasslands will act as C sources or sinks in the future we measured microbial respiration in long-term laboratory incubations of soils collected from a grassland field experiment after 9 years of factorial treatment of atmospheric CO, N deposition, and plant species richness on a deep and uniformly sandy soil. We fit microbial soil respiration rates to three-pool models of soil C cycling to separate treatment effects on decomposition and pool sizes of fast, slow, and resistant C pools. Elevated CO decreased the mean residence time (MRT) of slow C pools without affecting their pool size. Decreasing diversity reduced the size and MRT of fast C pools (comparing monocultures to plots planted with 16 species), but increased the slow pool MRT. N additions increased the size of the resistant pool. These effects of CO, N, and species-richness treatments were largely due to plant biomass differences between the treatments. We found no significant interactions among treatments. These results suggest that C sequestration in sandy grassland soils may not be strongly influenced by elevated CO or species losses. However, high N deposition may increase the amount of resistant C in these grasslands, which could contribute to increased C sequestration.
25622895|Floodplains in the Pacific Coastal Ecoregion (PCE) stem from steep eroding mountain landscapes in a rain forest environment, and sustain a rich array of natural resources. Like floodplains elsewhere, many of the approximately 200 coastal river valleys are profoundly altered by flow regulation and land conversion for agriculture and urban development, and these activities have contributed to widespreas declines in anadromous fishes and environmental quality. Some of the coastal river valleys, however, still retain many of their natural features, thereby providing important reference sites. Understanding fundamental biophysical processes underpinning natural floodplain characteristics is essential for successfully protecting and restoring ecological integrity, including inherent goods and services. This article examines factors underpinning the ecological characteristics of PCE floodplains, particularly riparian soils and trees. Drawing on over two decades of research and literature, we describe the spatial and temporal characteristics of physical features for alluvial PCE floodplains, examine the importance of sediment deposition and associated biogeochemical processes in floodplain soil formation, quantify vegetative succession and production dynamics of riparian trees, discuss how epiphytes, marine-derived nutrients, and soil processes contribute to tree production, describe the roles and importance of large dead wood in the system, the role of termites in its rapid decomposition, and show how large wood contributes to vegetative succession. These highly interconnected features and associated processes are summarized in a model of system-scale drivers and changes occurring over several centuries. Collectively, this integrated perspective has strong implications for floodplain rehabilitation, and we identify appropriate metrics for evaluating floodplain condition and functions. We draw heavily from our own experience on several well-studied rivers, recognizing additional studies are needed to evaluate the generality of concepts presented herein. As in any complex adaptive system, fundamental uncertainties remain and constraints imposed by the legacies of past human actions persist. Nevertheless, the evolving knowledge base is improving conservation strategies of lightly modified floodplains and is supporting the incorporation of emerging process-based perspectives into the rehabilitation of heavily modified systems.
41413965|Methods to detect and quantify shifts in the state of ecosystems are increasingly important as global change drivers push more systems toward thresholds of change. Temporal relationships between precipitation and aboveground net primary production (ANPP) have been studied extensively in arid and semiarid ecosystems, but rarely has spatial variation in these relationships been investigated at a landscape scale, and rarely has such information been viewed as a resource for mapping the distribution of different ecological states. We examined the broad-scale effects of a shift from grassland to shrubland states on spatiotemporal patterns of remotely sensed ANPP proxies in the northern Chihuahuan Desert. We found that the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), when averaged across an eight-year period, did not vary significantly between these states, despite changes in ecosystem attributes likely to influence water availability to plants. In contrast, temporal relationships between precipitation and time-integrated NDVI (NDVI-I) modeled on a per-pixel basis were sensitive to spatial variation in shrub canopy cover, a key attribute differentiating ecological states in the region. The slope of the relationship between annual NDVI-I and 2-year cumulative precipitation was negatively related to, and accounted for 71% of variation in, shrub canopy cover estimated at validation sites using high spatial resolution satellite imagery. These results suggest that remote sensing studies of temporal precipitation-NDVI relationships may be useful for deriving shrub canopy cover estimates in the region, as well as for mapping other ecological state changes characterized by shifts in long-term ANPP, plant functional type dominance, or both.
25622887|Peatlands store 30% of the world's terrestrial soil carbon (C) and those located at northern latitudes are expected to experience rapid climate warming. We monitored growing season carbon dioxide (CO) fluxes across a factorial design of in situ water table (control, drought, and flooded plots) and soil warming (control vs. warming via open top chambers) treatments for 2 years in a rich fen located just outside the Bonanza Creek Experimental Forest in interior Alaska. The drought (lowered water table position) treatment was a weak sink or small source of atmospheric CO compared to the moderate atmospheric CO sink at our control. This change in net ecosystem exchange was due to lower gross primary production and light-saturated photosynthesis rather than increased ecosystem respiration. The flooded (raised water table position) treatment was a greater CO sink in 2006 due largely to increased early season gross primary production and higher light-saturated photosynthesis. Although flooding did not have substantial effects on rates of ecosystem respiration, this water table treatment had lower maximum respiration rates and a higher temperature sensitivity of ecosystem respiration than the control plot. Surface soil warming increased both ecosystem respiration and gross primary production by approximately 16% compared to control (ambient temperature) plots, with no net effect on net ecosystem exchange. Results from this rich fen manipulation suggest that fast responses to drought will include reduced ecosystem C storage driven by plant stress, whereas inundation will increase ecosystem C storage by stimulating plant growth.
43677516|Grasslands support large populations of herbivores and store up to 30% of the world's soil carbon (C). Thus, herbivores likely play an important role in the global C cycle. However, most studies on how herbivory impacts the largest source of C released from grassland soilssoil carbon dioxide (CO) emissionsonly considered the role of large ungulates. This ignores all other vertebrate and invertebrate herbivores and their collective effects on ecosystem properties. We progressively excluded large, medium, and small vertebrates and invertebrates from two subalpine grasslands (productive, heavily grazed short-grass; less productive, lightly grazed tall-grass) using size-selective fences, assessed the impact on soil CO emissions and related biotic and abiotic variables. Exclusion resulted in significant changes in soil CO emissions in both vegetation types. Short-grass soil CO emissions progressively increased when large and medium mammals were excluded. However, no difference was detected among plots were all or no herbivores grazed. In contrast, tall-grass soil CO emissions were not affected by mammal exclusion, but excluding all herbivores lead to reduced emissions. Soil micro-climatic parameters best predicted the patterns of soil CO emissions in short-grass vegetation, whereas root biomass was the best predictor of CO release in tall-grass vegetation. Our results showed that diverse herbivore communities affect soil respiration differently than assumed from previous studies that only excluded large ungulates. Such information is important if we are to understand how changes in herbivore species compositionas could happen through altered management practices, extinction or invasionimpact grassland C storage and release.
40603630|Despite the frequent citation of wetlands as effective regulators of water quality, few quantitative estimates exist for their cumulative retention of the annual river loads of nutrients or sediments. Here we report measurements of sediment accretion and associated carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus accumulation as sedimentation over feldspar marker horizons placed on floodplains of the non-tidal, freshwater Coastal Plain reaches of seven rivers in the Chesapeake Bay watershed, USA. We then scale these accumulation rates to the entire extent of non-tidal floodplain in the Coastal Plain of each river, defined as riparian area extending from the Fall Line to the upper limit of tidal influence, and compare them to annual river loads. Floodplains accumulated a very large amount of material compared to their annual river loads of sediment (median among rivers = 119%), nitrogen (24%), and phosphorus (59%). Systems with larger floodplain areas and longer floodplain inundation retained greater proportions of riverine loads of nitrogen and phosphorus, but systems with larger riverine loads retained a smaller proportion of that load on floodplains. Although the source and longterm fate of deposited sediment and associated nutrients are uncertain, these fluxes represent the interception of large amounts of material that otherwise could have been exported downstream.Coastal Plain floodplain ecosystems are important regulators of sediment, carbon, and nutrient transport in watersheds of the Chesapeake Bay.
3658632|The relationship between soil nitrogen (N) availability and plant community structure was investigated in old-fields in the shortgrass steppe of Colorado. Nitrogen availability was manipulated by N or sucrose additions for 4 years at three old-fields (early-seral, mid-seral, and late-seral) and at an uncultivated control site. The addition of N generally resulted in increased abundance of annual forbs and grasses relative to perennials at all of the previously cultivated sites. Conversely, experimental reduction of N availability generally increased the relative abundance of perennials. Despite a lack of detectable differences in N mineralization between sites and treatments, ion-exchange resin bags confirmed that sucrose additions reduced plant-available N and that N additions increased plant-available N. This was evidenced further by similar observations for plant tissue N content. The degree to which N additions increased N availability at the various sites supported the idea that late-seral plant communities are less effective at N capture relative to earlier-seral communities. The mid-seral old-field had the lowest rates of litter decomposition and a relatively large accumulation of litter on the soil surface. This mid-seral old-field was dominated by an exotic annual grass (Bromus tectorum), which appears to be a major hindrance to redevelopment of the plant-soil system. By experimentally reducing N availability at this stage, we were able, in 4 years, to change the plant community into one that more closely resembled the late-seral community. We also observed that the natural recruitment of weedy annual species on the uncultivated site during an unusually wet year was suppressed by reducing N availability. Our results suggest that available N is an important factor controlling the rate and course of plant and soil community redevelopment on abandoned croplands in the shortgrass steppe, and that manipulation of N availability might be useful in restoration of rangeland vegetation.
23501436|Open top chambers (OTCs) and infrared (IR) lamps have been widely used for experimentally warming ecosystems, especially in high latitude and alpine regions. The efficacy of OTCs and IR lamps is variable, yet there has not been a direct, experimentally controlled comparison of these warming methods. We, therefore, implemented a factorial study in a northern Michigan peatland to test how warming and microtopography interacted to affect micrometeorological parameters and CO 2 and CH 4 flux rates. IR lamps significantly warmed the soil (5 cm depth; P < 0.05) by 1.4 and 1.9C in 2009 and 2010, respectively, with the majority of warming occurring during nighttime hours. OTCs did not provide any long-term warming increase compared to control plots, which is contrary to OTC studies at high latitudes. By investigating diurnal heating patterns and micrometeorological variables, we determined that OTCs were not achieving strong daytime heating peaks and were often cooler than controls during nighttime hours. Temperate day-length, cloudy and humid conditions, and latent heat loss were factors that may have inhibited OTC warming. Warming treatments created mixed effects on gas flux components. Within drier, hummock plots, IR lamps significantly increased gross ecosystem production (GEP) but not ecosystem respiration (ER), whereas OTCs had no effect on GEP or ER in hummocks. In wetter, lawn plots, warming treatments had no effect on CO 2 flux or CH4 flux. We show here that IR lamps are more effective than OTCs for studying how temperate peatlands may respond to increased temperatures.
3658618|Chronic human activities may result in new and permanent successional trajectories in certain ecosystems. The invasion of longleaf pine ecosystems by sand pine in the Florida Panhandle is one such change in the landscape. This study examined the spatial pattern of sand pine expansion and explored the natural and anthropogenic disturbances that fostered this invasion. Aerial photographs (1949, 1994) and Geographic Information Systems analyses confirmed sand pine expansion at Eglin Air Force Base. In 1949, there were 8,982 ha of sand pine in the southern portion of the study area near riparian and coastal lowland forests. By 1994, sand pine had expanded further upland and inland, for a total of 17,147 ha in the study area. Sand pine age data showed that this expansion had started by 1920 but increased rapidly in the 1940s. Historical accounts and structural data from stands suggest that land-use activities associated with the extraction of turpentine promoted the invasion by sand pine. Fires were suppressed in longleaf pine forests to protect turpentine trees, resulting in increased vegetation cover and decreased regeneration of longleaf pine. In addition, stands were typically harvested after turpentining, and there was little or no advanced regeneration of longleaf pine. Sand pine age histograms showed that the onset of high establishment rates (1940s) coincided with changes in land ownership and widespread fire suppression. Sand pine is likely to persist in these ecosystems due to its abundant regeneration.
40296386|Fire disturbance patterns influence forest communities at a range of spatial scales. Forest community structure may also influence fire disturbance patterns, because tree species vary in their fuel value and in their tolerance to fire damage. However, the influence of community structure on fire disturbance likely depends on latent ecological differences between fires and on the spatial scale at which patterns are observed. Using data on fire intensity, community structure, and post-fire tree survival in four systematically sampled boreal forest fires, we tested the hypotheses that: (1) patterns in post-fire tree survival reflect interactions between fire intensity and community structure; (2) these relationships change with the spatial scale of observation. To test the first hypothesis, we used information theoretic methods to compare eight generalized linear mixed effects models describing the influence of community structure and fire intensity on tree survival in a 500 m sample plot, accounting for latent fire-to-fire differences in response. To test the scaling hypothesis, we reaveraged the data at nine successively larger spatial resolutions up to approximately 2 km, at each resolution tracking the parameter values of the best model. When fit to the plot-level data, the dominant feature of the best model was a strong intensity-survival correlation which varied from fire to fire, and depended on plot-level community structure. In some fires, community structure and survival became more tightly coupled at larger scales, whereas fire intensity became less important. These results support the view that fire disturbance patterns are influenced by cross-scale interactions between community structure and fire intensity.
25053841|Increased nitrogen (N) loading to lotic ecosystems may cause fundamental changes in the ability of streams and rivers to retain or remove N due to the potential for N saturation. Lotic ecosystems will saturate with sustained increases in the N load, but it is unclear at what point saturation will occur. Rates of N transformation in lotic ecosystems will vary depending on the total N load and whether it is an acute or chronic N load. Nitrogen saturation may not occur with only pulsed or short-term increases in N. Overall, saturation of microbial uptake will occur prior to saturation of denitrification of N and denitrification will become saturated prior to nitrification, exacerbating increases in nitrate concentrations and in N export downstream. The rate of N export to downstream ecosystems will increase proportionally to the N load once saturation occurs. Long term data sets showed that smaller lotic ecosystems have a greater capacity to remove in-stream N loads, relative to larger systems. Thus, denitrification is likely to become less important as a N loss mechanism as the stream size increases. There is a great need for long-term studies of N additions in lotic ecosystems and clear distinctions need to be made between ecosystem responses to short-term or periodic increases in N loading and alterations in ecosystem functions due to chronic N loading.
41505933|Arctic tundra vegetation composition is expected to undergo rapid changes during the coming decades because of changes in climate. Higher air temperatures generally favor growth of deciduous shrubs, often at the cost of moss growth. Mosses are considered to be very important to critical tundra ecosystem processes involved in water and energy exchange, but very little empirical data are available. Here, we studied the effect of experimental moss removal on both understory evapotranspiration and ground heat flux in plots with either a thin or a dense low shrub canopy in a tundra site with continuous permafrost in Northeast Siberia. Understory evapotranspiration increased with removal of the green moss layer, suggesting that most of the understory evapotranspiration originated from the organic soil layer underlying the green moss layer. Ground heat flux partitioning also increased with green moss removal indicating the strong insulating effect of moss. No significant effect of shrub canopy density on understory vapotranspiration was measured, but ground heat flux partitioning was reduced by a denser shrub canopy. In summary, our results show that mosses may exert strong controls on understory water and heat fluxes. Changes in moss or shrub cover may have important consequences for summer permafrost thaw and concomitant soil carbon release in Arctic tundra ecosystems.
41413972|A key aspect of savannah vegetation heterogeneity is mosaics formed by two functional grassland types, bunch grasslands, and grazing lawns. We investigated the role of termites, important ecosystem engineers, in creating high-nutrient patches in the form of grazing lawns. Some of the ways termites can contribute to grazing lawn development is through erosion of soil from aboveground mounds to the surrounding soil surface. This may alter the nutrient status of the surrounding soils. We hypothesize that the importance of this erosion varies with termite genera, depending on feeding strategy and mound type. To test this, we simulated erosion by applying mound soil from three termite genera (Macrotermes, Odontotermes, and Trinerviter mes) in both a field experiment and a greenhouse experiment. In the greenhouse experiment, we found soils with the highest macro nutrient levels (formed by Trinervitermes) promoted the quality and biomass of both a lawn (Digitaria longiflora) and a bunch (Sporobolus pyramidalis) grass species. In the field we found that soils with the highest micro nutrient levels (formed by Macrotermes) showed the largest increase in cover of grazing lawn species. By linking the different nutrient availability of the mounds to the development of different grassland states, we conclude that the presence of termite mounds influences grassland mosaics, but that the type of mound plays a crucial role in determining the nature of the effects.
40296281|In systems ranging from lakes and woodlands to coral reefs, the long-term ecosystem state may often be determined largely by rare extreme events such as wet ENSO years, droughts, or disease outbreaks. Such events can flip these systems into a contrasting state that represents either an alternative attractor or a transient that is slow enough to persist even if the frequency of events that push the system to this state is low. Here we show that escape from herbivores is a mechanism that can play a role in several state shifts of this kind. This can happen if plants become less susceptible to herbivory as they grow. Using a model we show that, surprisingly, this mechanism can lead to a situation where a brief resource pulse for plants may invoke a persistent shift to a high biomass state whereas gradual enrichment to the same resource level is insufficient to allow such a change. This counterintuitive phenomenon occurs if the numerical response of herbivores is sufficiently slow to allow the plants to use the resource pulse to escape to a safe biomass at which herbivory is reduced. Our results imply that rates of environmental change can sometimes be more important than their magnitude. This has many ramifications. On the conceptual side, our findings suggest that key mechanisms that regulate long-term ecosystem dynamics are easily missed by the traditional focus of modelers on equilibria. A more practical corollary is that increased climatic variability may have more profound effects in some ecosystems than gradual change in conditions.
25470394|Best-practice environmental policy often suggests co-management of marine resources as a means of achieving sustainable development. Here we consider the impacts of superimposing co-management policy, in the form of territorial user rights for fishers over an existing traditional community-based natural-resource management system in Chile. We consider a broad definition of co-management that includes a spectrum of arrangements between governments and user groups described by different levels of devolution of power. We used participatory rural appraisal techniques and questionnaires to understand the mechanisms that underpin the traditional management system for the bull-kelp "cochayuyo" (Durvillaea antarctica). Traditional management was based on the allocation of informal access rights through a lottery system. This system was controlled by a complex web of traditional institutions that were shown to be successful in terms of equity and resilience. Using a similar approach, we analyzed the effects of superimposing a government-led co-management policy into this traditional system. Two major effects of the new policy were encountered. First, traditional institutions were weakened, which had negative effects on the levels of trust within the community and intensified conflict among users. Second, the management system's adaptive capacity was reduced, thereby jeopardizing the ecosystem's resilience. Our results suggest that the devolution of power to this kind of fisher community still has not reached the level required for fishers to legally address the local deficiencies of the Chilean co-management policy. Additionally, legal adjustments must be made to accommodate traditionally managed ecosystems that offer benefits comparable to those mandated under the formal policy. A fuller understanding of the interactions between co-management and traditional institutions can help us to identify ways to promote resilience and facilitate equal access by mitigating the potential negative effects of co-management policy and informing its future implementation.
25622904|Mangroves on Pacific high islands offer a number of important ecosystem services to both natural ecological communities and human societies. High islands are subjected to constant erosion over geologic time, which establishes an important source of terrigeneous sediment for nearby marine communities. Many of these sediments are deposited in mangrove forests and offer mangroves a potentially important means for adjusting surface elevation with rising sea level. In this study, we investigated sedimentation and elevation dynamics of mangrove forests in three hydrogeomorphic settings on the islands of Kosrae and Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). Surface accretion rates ranged from 2.9 to 20.8 mm y, and are high for naturally occurring mangroves. Although mangrove forests in Micronesian high islands appear to have a strong capacity to offset elevation losses by way of sedimentation, elevation change over 6 1/2 years ranged from -3.2 to 4.1 mm y, depending on the location. Mangrove surface elevation change also varied by hydrogeomorphic setting and river, and suggested differential, and not uniformly bleak, susceptibilities among Pacific high island mangroves to sea-level rise. Fringe, riverine, and interior settings registered elevation changes of -1.30, 0.46, and 1.56 mm y, respectively, with the greatest elevation deficit (-3.2 mm y) from a fringe zone on Pohnpei and the highest rate of elevation gain (4.1 mm y) from an interior zone on Kosrae. Relative to sea-level rise estimates for FSM (0.8-1.8 mm y) and assuming a consistent linear trend in these estimates, soil elevations in mangroves on Kosrae and Pohnpei are experiencing between an annual deficit of 4.95 mm and an annual surplus of 3.28 mm. Although natural disturbances are important in mediating elevation gain in some situations, constant allochthonous sediment deposition probably matters most on these Pacific high islands, and is especially helpful in certain hydrogeomorphic zones. Fringe mangrove forests are most susceptible to sea-level rise, such that protection of these outer zones from anthropogenic disturbances (for example, harvesting) may slow the rate at which these zones convert to open water.
25470393|Identifying the conditions and mechanisms that control ecosystem processes, such as net primary production, is a central goal of ecosystem ecology. Ideas have ranged from single limiting-resource theories to colimitation by nutrients and climate, to simulation models with edaphic, climatic, and competitive controls. Although some investigators have begun to consider the influence of land-use practices, especially cropping, few studies have quantified the impact of cropping at large scales relative to other known controls over ecosystem processes. We used a 9-year record of productivity, biomass seasonality, climate, weather, soil conditions, and cropping in the US Great Plains to quantify the controls over spatial and temporal patterns of net primary production and to estimate sensitivity to specific driving variables. We considered climate, soil conditions, and long-term average cropping as controls over spatial patterns, while weather and interannual cropping variations were used as controls over temporal variability. We found that variation in primary production is primarily spatial, whereas variation in seasonality is more evenly split between spatial and temporal components. Our statistical (multiple linear regression) models explained more of the variation in the amount of primary production than in its seasonality, and more of the spatial than the temporal patterns. Our results indicate that although climate is the most important variable for explaining spatial patterns, cropping explains a substantial amount of the residual variability. Soil texture and depth contributed very little to our models of spatial variability. Weather and cropping deviation both made modest contributions to the models of temporal variability. These results suggest that the controls over seasonality and temporal variation are not well understood. Our sensitivity analysis indicates that production is more sensitive to climate than to weather and that it is very sensitive to cropping intensity. In addition to identifying potential gaps in out knowledge, these results provide insight into the probable long-and short-term ecosystem response to changes in climate, weather, and cropping.
43677511|We studied production by three key pelagic energy mobilizer communities, phytoplankton (PP), heterotrophic bacteria (HB), and methanotrophic bacteria (MOB), in five boreal lakes of varying size and concentration of dissolved organic carbon (DOC). Production by PP was responsible for most (> 55%) of the total pelagic energy mobilization in all five lakes. Production by HB and PP estimated for the whole water column during the ice-free period were positively correlated, but with the exception of the clearest and most eutrophic lake PP apparently could not support the total carbon demand of bacteria. However, the DOC concentration did not explain the variability of heterotrophic bacterial production (HBP) within or between the lakes. Thus, our results provide circumstantial evidence for the "priming effect" whereby labile organic matter from autochthonous production enhances decomposition of allochthonous DOC. However, HBP was only 10-23% of the total pelagic energy mobilization in the lakes, suggesting that only a minor fraction of allochthonous DOC became available for higher trophic levels. High MOB activity was detected in the water columns of the stratified lakes when the molar ratio of CH:O varied between 0.5 and 12. In the small stratified lakes (area < 0.01 km), MOB production contributed 13-52% of the total pelagic energy mobilization, being greatest during the autumn mixing period. Our results indicate that in small stratified lakes (area < 0.01 km) bacteria, especially MOB, are potentially quantitatively important supplementary food resources for zooplankton. However, in larger lakes primary producers are the most important (> 70%) potential food source for zooplankton.
43677509|We evaluated the potential contribution of allochthonous biomass subsidies to the upper trophic levels of offshore food webs in the northeastern Gulf of Mexico (GOM). We made this evaluation considering nitrogen, an essential and often limiting nutrient in coastal ecosystems, to estimate the potential production of within-ecosystem biomass relative to the known import of biomass from an adjacent seagrass-dominated ecosystem. When adjusted for trophic transfer efficiency, we found the biomass subsidy from a single species (pinfish, Lagodon rhomboides) from nearshore seagrass habitat to the offshore GOM to be greater than the amount of nitrogen exported by two major rivers and local submarine ground water discharge. Our calculations show that seagrass-derived biomass accounts for approximately 25% of the total potential production in the northeastern GOM. This estimate is in agreement with a previous study that found 18.5-25% of the biomass in a predatory reef fish was derived from seagrass biomass inputs. These results indicate that all of the sources we consider account for the majority of the nitrogen available to the food web in the northeastern GOM. Our approach could be adapted to other coupled ecosystems to determine the relative importance of biomass subsidies to coastal ocean food webs.
3658757|Understanding human disturbance regimes is crucial for developing effective conservation and ecosystem management plans and for targeting ecological research to areas that define scarce ecosystem services. We evaluate and develop a forecasting model for land-use change in the Southern Appalachians. We extend previous efforts by (a) addressing the spatial diffusion of human populations, approximated by building density, (b) examining a long time period (40 years, which is epochal in economic terms), and (c) explicitly testing the forecasting power of the models. The resulting model, defined by linking a negative binomial regression model of building density with a logit model of land cover, was fit using spatially referenced data from four study sites in the Southern Appalachians. All fitted equations were significant, and coefficient estimates indicated that topographic features as well as location significantly shape population diffusion and land use across these landscapes. This is especially evident in the study sites that have experienced development pressure over the last 40 years. Model estimates also indicate significant spatial autocorrelation in land-use observations. Forecast performance of the models was evaluated by using a separate validation data set for each study area. Depending on the land-use classification scheme, the models correctly predicted between 68% and 89% of observed land uses. Tests based on information theory reject the hypothesis that the models have no explanatory power, and measures of entropy and information gain indicate that the estimated models explain between 47% and 66% of uncertainty regarding land-use classification. Overall, these results indicate that modeling land-cover change alone may not be useful over the long run, because changing land cover reflects the outcomes of more than one human process (for example, agricultural decline and population growth). Here, additional information was gained by addressing the spatial spread of human populations. Furthermore, coarse-scale measures of the human drivers of landscape change (for example, population growth measured at the county level) appear to be poor predictors of changes realized at finer scales. Simulations demonstrate how this type of approach might be used to target scarce resources for conservation and research efforts into ecosystem effects.
41505896|The dominant conceptual model of nitrogen (N) saturation in forests predicts the temporal patterns of key N cycling indicators as an initially N-limited forest is progressively enriched in N. We present the results from a long-term N addition experiment in an oak forest in southeastern New York State, USA, which do not conform to the predictions of the conceptual model in several ways. In contrast to the predictions of the conceptual model, the foliar N concentrations in the N-treated stands of our study increased to about 20% above the levels in the control stands and then remained essentially constant, and nitrogen leaching from the treated stands increased almost immediately after the start of the experiment, prior to the onset of elevated nitrification. Concentrations of N in soil solution of the N-treated stands peaked at over 150-fold greater than the concentrations in the control stands. There were no significant changes in potential net N mineralization. Tree mortality increased in the treated stands, but the tree mortality did not appear to be the primary cause of the excess nitrate leaching. Based on these results and those of other recent studies, we present a new conceptual model of the N saturation process focused on the mass balance of N rather than the temporal dynamics of N cycling indicators. The mass balance is characterized by inputs of N from atmospheric deposition and fertilization, internal sinks in the vegetation and soils, and outputs to leaching and gaseous losses. The key points of the conceptual model are (1) added N can flow simultaneously to all sinks and losses in the system, (2) the fate of the added N and the temporal patterns of flow of N depend on the strength of the sinks and the factors that control them, and (3) the movement of N to the various sinks determines how N saturation is manifested in the ecosystem. We distinguish capacity N saturation, in which the sinks in the vegetation and soil are zero or negative, from kinetic N saturation, in which the sinks are positive but lower than the N input rate. The sink strengths in the vegetation and soil have two components, one due to carbon (C) accumulation in the system and the other due to change in the stoichiometry (C:N ratio) of the pool. Further work quantifying the magnitudes and controlling factors for the N sinks will allow better prediction of the dynamics of N saturation in different types of forested ecosystems.
40793005|The redistribution of water in semi-arid environments is critical for the maintenance and survival of vegetation patches. We used a systems approach to examine the interactive effects of three engineers Stipa tenadssima, biological soil crusts, and the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus)  on infiltration processes in a model gypseous semi-arid Mediterranean grassland. We measured the early (sorptivity) and later (steady-state infiltration) stages of infiltration at two supply potentials using disk permeameters, which allowed us to determine the relative effects of different engineers and soil micropores on water flow through large macropores. We detected few effects under tension when flow was restricted to matrix pores, but under ponding, sorptivity and steady-state infiltration adjacent to Stipa tussocks were 2-3 times higher than in intact or rabbit-disturbed biological soil crusts. Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) showed that both Stipa and biological soil crust cover exerted substantial and equal positive effects on infiltration under ponding, whereas indirectly, rabbit disturbance negatively affected infiltration by reducing crust cover. Under tension, when macropores were prevented from conducting water, Stipa had a direct negative effect and biological soil crust cover was relatively unimportant. More complex SEM models demonstrated that (1) Stipa primarily influenced biological soil crusts by reducing their richness, (2) rabbits exerted a small negative effect on crust richness, and (3) lichens were negatively, and mosses positively, correlated with a derived "infiltration" axis. Our results highlight the importance of biological soil crusts as key players in the maintenance of infiltration processes in Stipa grasslands, and demonstrate the modulating role played by rabbits through their surface disturbances.
3658980| The Wind River old-growth forest, in the southern Cascade Range of Washington State, is a cool (average annual temperature, 8.7C), moist (average annual precipitation, 2223 mm), 500-year-old Douglas-fir-western hemlock forest of moderate to low productivity at 371-m elevation on a less than 10% slope. There is a seasonal snowpack (November-March), and rain-on-snow and freezing-rain events are common in winter. Local geology is characterized by volcanic rocks and deposits of Micocene/Oligocene Micocene-Oligocene (mixed) Micocene and Quaternary age, as well as intrusive rocks of Miocene age. Soils are medial, mesic, Entic Vitrands that are deep (2-3 m), well drained, loams and silt loams, generally stone free, and derived from volcanic tephra. The vegetation is transitional, between the Western Hemlock Zone and the Pacific Silver Fir Zone, and the understory is dominated by vine maple, salal, and Oregon grape. Stand structural parameters have been measured on a 4-ha plot. There are eight species of conifers, with a stand density of
43677522|Closely integrated research between archaeologists and ecologists provides a long-term view of human land use that is rare in the ecological literature, allowing for investigation of activities that lead to enduring environmental outcomes. This extended temporal perspective is particularly important in aridlands where succession occurs slowly and ecosystem processes are mediated by abiotic, geomorphic factors. Numerous studies show that impacts from ancient human actions can persist, but few have explored the types of practices or mechanisms that lead to either transient or long-term environmental change. We compared plant and soil properties and processes from a range of landscape patch types in the Sonoran Desert of the US Southwest that supported different, well-documented prehistoric farming practices from AD 750-1300. Our results show that the types of ancient human activities that leave long-term ecological legacies in aridlands are those that fundamentally alter "slow variables" such as soil properties that regulate the timing and supply of water. Prehistoric Hohokam floodwater-irrigation practices, but not dryland farming techniques, substantially altered soil texture, which was strongly associated with desert plant community and functional composition. However, prehistoric agriculture did not consistently alter long-term nutrient availability and thus had no impact on "fast variables" such as production of seasonal annual plants that are restricted to periods of ample rainfall. In this arid ecosystem, the inverse texture model explained patterns in plant functional composition at large scales, but is less predictive of production of shortlived desert annuals that experience a more mesic precipitation regime.
40603663|Mangrove forests are rapidly expanding their distribution in New Zealand, which is at the southern limit of their range. We investigated how these expanding mangrove forests develop through time. We assessed patterns in forest structure and function at the Firth of Thames, which is a rapidly accreting mangrove site in New Zealand where 1 km of mangrove of Avicennia marina has established seaward since the 1950s. Across the intertidal region, mangrove forest structure was highly variable. We used bomb-pulse radiocarbon dating to age the forest. Two major forest establishment events were identified; one in 1978-1981 and another in 1991-1995. These events coincided with sustained El Nio activity and are likely the result of reduced wind and wave energy at the site during these periods. We used the two forests of different ages to assess whether mangroves in New Zealand mature at similar rates as other mangroves and whether they conform to classic models of succession. The timing of forest maturation is similar in New Zealand as in more tropical locations with trees exhibiting features of mature forests as they age from about 10 to about 30 years. In older forest (~ 30 years old) trees become larger and stands more homogenous than in the younger forest (~ 10 years old). Carbon and nutrient concentrations in soils increased and soils become more aerobic in older forest compared to younger forest. Additionally, using fertilization experiments, we established that despite reduced growth rates in older forests, nitrogen remained limiting to growth in both older and young forests. However, in contrast to classic successional models leaf tissue nutrient concentrations and nutrient conservation (nutrient rsorption from senescence leaf tissue) were similar in forests of differing ages and did not vary with fertilization. We conclude that mangrove forest expansion in New Zealand is influenced by climatic factors. Mangrove forests mature rapidly, even at the limits of their range and they satisfy many of the successional patterns predicted by Odum (1969) for the early stages of forest succession.
3658745| Many biological functions of soil organisms are replaced in intensive agricultural systems, but earthworms and other soil invertebrates may continue to have significant effects on nutrient cycling in these disturbed systems. We investigated the influence of earthworms on leaching of water and nitrogen in corn (Zea mays L.) agroecosystems in a long-term (6-year) field experiment in Wooster, Ohio, USA. We employed a split-plot experimental design in which main plots received one of three nutrient treatments (cow manure, legume-grass mixture, inorganic fertilizer) and contained three 4.5  4.5-m field enclosures in which earthworm populations were increased, decreased, or unmodified. We installed zero-tension lysimeters beneath enclosures with increased or decreased populations and collected leachates regularly in 1996, analyzing them for water volume and concentrations of NH
25053800|A coupled energy and water balance model is used to simulate the effects of large tree canopies on soil moisture and water stress across a series of sites spanning a regional moisture gradient in southern Africa. The model tracks evapotranspiration from five components of the land surface at each site-the tree canopy, the grass under and between tree canopies, and the bare soil under and between tree canopies. The soil moisture dynamics are simulated at daily time steps and driven by a stochastic model of storm arrivals and storm depth. Evapotranspiration is modeled using the Priestley-Taylor approach, with potential evapotranspiration scaled by soil moisture availability. The soil moisture under tree canopies is compared to the soil moisture between tree canopies, and differences in average annual soil moisture stress conditions are analyzed at each site. The spatial distribution of large trees has important consequences for small-scale soil moisture dynamics across the rainfall gradient. The results indicate that tree canopies serve to reduce soil moisture stress of under-canopy vegetation in the middle of the rainfall gradient. At the dry end of the rainfall gradient, the effect of tree canopies on soil moisture is dependent on the amount of rainfall received in a given growing season.
3658640|Despite the widely recognized importance of disturbance in accelerating the loss of elements from land, there have been few empirical studies of the effects of natural disturbances on nitrogen (N) dynamics in forest ecosystems. We were provided the unusual opportunity for such study, partly because the intensively monitored watersheds at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF), New Hampshire, experienced severe canopy damage following an ice storm. Here we report the effects of this disturbance on internal N cycling and loss for watershed 1 (W1) and watershed 6 (W6) at the HBEF and patterns of N loss from nine other severely damaged watersheds across the southern White Mountains. This approach allowed us to test one component of N limitation theory, which suggests that N losses accompanying natural disturbances can lead to the maintenance of N limitation in temperate zone forest ecosystems. Prior to the ice storm, fluxes of nitrate
3658927|The introduction of fish into high-elevation lakes can provide a geographic and demographic boost to their invasion of stream networks, thereby further endangering the native stream fauna. Increasingly, remaining populations of native salmonids are concentrated in fragmented headwater refugia that are protected by physical or biological barriers from introduced fishes that originate in the pervasive source populations established at lower elevations. Although fish introduced near mainstem rivers frequently encounter obstacles to upstream dispersal, such as steep slopes or falls, we found that brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) dispersed downstream through channel slopes of 80% and 18-m-high falls. Thus, headwater lake stocking provides source populations that may be capable of invading most downstream habitats, including headwater refugia of native fishes. The extent of additional area invasible from lakes, beyond that invasible from downstream, depends on the geography of the stream network, particularly the density and distribution of headwater lakes and their location relative to barriers inhibiting upstream dispersal. In the thermal and trophic environments downstream of lakes, fish commonly grow faster and thus mature earlier and have higher fecundity-at-age than their counterparts in other high-elevation streams. The resulting higher rates of population growth facilitate invasion. Larger body sizes also potentially aid the fish in overcoming barriers to invasion. Trout introductions to high-elevation headwater lakes thus pose disproportionately large risks to native fishes-even when the place of introduction may appear to be spatially dissociated from populations of the native species. Mapping the potential invasible area can help to establish priorities in stocking and eradication efforts.
40296309|Early succession aspen and late succession conifer forests have different architecture and physiology affecting hydrologic transfer processes. An evaluation of water pools and fluxes was used to determine differences in the hydrologic dynamics between stands of quaking aspen (Populus tremuloides) and associated stands of mixed conifer consisting of white fir (Abies concolor), Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), and Engelmann spruce (Picea engelmannii). In 2005 and 2006, measurements of snow water accumulation, snow ablation (melt), soil water content, snowpack sublimation, and evapotranspiration (ET) were measured in adjacent aspen and conifer stands. Peak snow water equivalent (SWE) averaged 34-44% higher in aspen in 2005 (average snow fall) and 2006 (above average snow fall), respectively, whereas snow ablation rates were greater in aspen stands (21 mm day) compared to conifer stands (11 mm day). When changes in soil water content (due to over-winter snowmelt) were combined with peak snow accumulation in 2006, aspen had greater potential (42-83%) water yield for runoff and groundwater recharge. Snowpack sublimation during the ablation period was not significantly different between meadow, aspen, and conifer sites and comprised less than 5% of the winter precipitation. Extended conifer transpiration in spring and fall did not contribute to large differences in water yield (< 28 mm y). Summertime ET rates were higher in aspen plots (3.6 mm day) than in conifer plots (2.7 mm day), and differences in net ET largely reflected soil column porosity. This study shows that the largest differences in annual water yield between aspen and conifer stands result from differences in SWE and net summertime ET. Although SWE and accumulation of water in soil was greater in aspen, it was partly offset by greater net annual ET losses in aspen.
40793004|Microbial immobilization of nitrogen (N) in litter from one year's production may cause oscillations in biomass production if it delays N availability the following year. We tested whether shoot and root litter and plant density affect biomass and seed production of populations of wild rice (Zizannia palustris L.) grown in 378 1 stock tank mesocosms over four consecutive years. Half the tanks were thinned to a uniform seedling density whereas density in the remaining tanks was allowed to fluctuate ad libitum. Litter treatments included both shoot litter removal, leaving only root litter, and retaining shoot litter intact with root litter. A separate greenhouse fertilizer experiment tested whether N and/or phosphorus (P) limited productivity. Responses to N additions were much stronger than to P additions. Annual production and N availability in the tanks were correlated with each other and followed a concurrent cycle from 2004 to 2008. Furthermore, production in tanks with shoot + root litter did not fluctuate more than tanks with only root litter. Root litter immobilized more nitrogen and for a longer period than shoot litter. Neither litter immobilized P. Density did not affect mean seed weight, total seed production, or mean plant weight, but total seed production declined in years following productive years and was high only following years of low litter production. Root litter may therefore be primarily responsible for the delays in N availability that cause cycles in biomass and seed production. Consequently, both wild rice litter quantity and quality play central roles in production and population dynamics of wild rice stands.
25470350|Deposition of reactive nitrogen (N) compounds has the potential to cause severe damage to sensitive soils and waters, but the process of 'nitrogen saturation' is difficult to demonstrate or predict. This study compares outputs from a simple carbon-nitrogen model with observations of (1) regional-and catchment-scale relationships between surface water nitrate and dissolved organic carbon (DOC), as an indicator of catchment carbon (C) pool; (2) inter-regional variations in soil C/N ratios; and (3) plot scale soil and leachate response to long-term N additions, for a range of UK moorlands. Results suggest that the simple model applied can effectively reproduce observed patterns, and that organic soil C stores provide a critical control on catchment susceptibility to enhanced N leaching, leading to high spatial variability in the extent and severity of current damage within regions of relatively uniform deposition. Results also support the hypothesis that the N richness of organic soils, expressed as C/N ratio, provides an effective indicator of soil susceptibility to enhanced N leaching. The extent to which current C/N is influenced by N deposition, as opposed to factors such as climate and vegetation type, cannot be unequivocally determined on the basis of spatial data. However, N addition experiments at moorland sites have shown a reduction in organic soil C/N. A full understanding of the mechanisms of N-enrichment of soils and waters is essential to the assessment of current sensitivity to, and prediction of future damage from, globally increasing reactive nitrogen deposition.
40603419|Forest fire regimes are likely to experience considerable changes in the European Alps due to climatic changes. However, little is known about the recent regional fire history and the impact of local climate on the fire regime during the 20th centuryWe therefore reconstructed the fire history in a dry continental valley of the Swiss Alps (Valais) over the past 100 years based on documentary evidence, and investigated the relationship between the reconstructed fire regime and the local climatic variability. We compared the impact of temperature, precipitation, drought and dry foehn winds on fire frequency, extent of burnt area, and fire seasonality on various spatial and temporal scales. In the subalpine zone, the fire regime appears to have been mainly driven by temperature and precipitation, whereas these variables seem to have played only a secondary role in the colline-montane zones. Here, foehn winds and, probably, non-climatic factors seem to have been more important.Temperature and precipitation played a major role in shaping fire frequency and burnt area in the first half of the 20th century, but lost their importance during the second half. Our case study illustrates the occurrence of different fire regime patterns and their driving forces on small spatial scales (a few hundred square kilometers). We conclude that the strong rise in temperature over the past century has not profoundly changed the fire regime in Valais, but in the second half of the 20th century temperature was no longer a strong determinant for forest fires as compared to human activities or biomass availability in forests.
40296308|We examined the influence of watershed land use and morphology on dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentration in 32 south-central Ontario streams having varying agricultural land-use intensities in their catchments. For streams in this region, both univariate and multivariate regression models identify the proportion of the watershed with poorly drained soils (r 2 up to 0.67) as a better predictor of stream DOC concentrations than any other landscape characteristic, including the proportion of the watershed as wetland. Agricultural land use did not strongly influence DOC concentrations in our study area; however, we do show that land-use changes could significantly alter the delivery of DOC to streams in the region. We also identify how landscape-DOC relationships change over a 2-year time period, as related to season, regional climatic conditions, soil moisture, and hydrology. Our results indicate that the relationships between landscape predictors and stream DOC concentrations are temporally dynamic. Strong temporal trends are shown seasonally and in association with climate, through its control of modelled soil moisture conditions. During periods of positive and negative deviation from normal soil moisture conditions, the relationships of DOC concentrations with landscape characteristics become less predictable. We show that these dominant patterns are likely a function of varying flow paths and that anthropogenic changes that affect soil moisture conditions or flow path will in turn strongly influence DOC dynamics.
3659014| Most arid ecosystems have suffered from severe overexploitation by excessive wood harvesting, overgrazing, and agriculture, resulting in depletion of vegetation biomass and soil erosion. These changes are often difficult to reverse due to positive feedbacks that tend to stabilize the new situation. In this paper, we briefly review evidence for the idea that different states in these ecosystems might represent alternative equilibria and present a graphic model that summarizes the implications for their response to changing environmental conditions. We show how, in the light of this theoretical framework, climatic oscillations such as El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO) could be used in combination with grazer control to restore degraded arid ecosystems. We also present evidence that, depending on grazing pressure, ENSO episodes can trigger structural and long-lasting changes in these ecosystems. 
3658952|Potential changes in tree species richness and forest community types were evaluated for the eastern United States according to five scenarios of future climate change resulting from a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
27823753|Stream water exports of nutrients and pollutants to water bodies integrate internal and external watershed processes that vary in both space and time. In this paper, we explore nitrate (NO3) fluxes for the 326 km2 mixed-land use Fall Creek watershed in central New York for 19722005, and consider internal factors such as changes in land use/land cover, dynamics in agricultural production and fertilizer use, and external factors such as atmospheric deposition. Segmented regression analysis was applied independently to dormant and growing seasons for three portions of the period of record, which indicated that stream water NO3 concentrations increased in both dormant and growing seasons from the 1970s to the early 1990s at all volumes of streamflow discharge. Dormant season NO3 concentrations then decreased at all flow conditions between the periods 19871993 and 19942005. Results from a regression-based stream water loading model (LOADEST) normalized to mean annual concentrations showed annual modeled NO3 concentration in stream water increased by 34% during the 1970s and 1980s (from 1.15 to 1.54 mg 11), peaked in about 1989, and then decreased by 29% through 2005 (to 1.09 mg 1). Annual precipitation had the strongest correlation with stream water NO3 concentratioins (r = 0.62, P = 0.01). Among land use factors, corn production for grain was the variable most highly correlated to stream water NO3 concentrations (r = 0.53, P = 0.01). The strongest associative trend determined using Chi-squared Automatic Interaction Detection (CHAID) was found between stream water No3 concentrations and N-equivalence of dairy production (Bonferroni adjusted P value = 0.0003). Large increases in dairy production were coincident with declining nitrate concentrations over the past decade, which suggest that dairy management practices may have improved in the watershed. However, because dairy production in the Fall Creek watershed has been fueled by large increases in feed imports, the environmental costs of feed production have likely been externalized to other watersheds.
3658674|Each year, about 75 billion tons of soil are eroded from the world's terrestrial ecosystems. Most agricultural land in the world is losing soil at rates ranging from 13 tons/ha/year to 40 tons/ha/year. Because soil is formed very slowly, this means that soil is being lost 13-40 times faster than the rate of renewal and sustainability. Rain and wind energy are the two prime causes of erosion from tilled or bare land. Erosion occurs when the soil lacks protective vegetative cover. Soil erosion reduces the productivity of the land by loss of water, soil organic matter, nutrients, biota, and depth of soil. The greatest threat to providing food for a rapidly growing human population is soil erosion. Abandoned, eroded agricultural land is replaced by clearing forested ecosystems.
41505938|We characterized spatial and temporal variability in net ecosystem production (NEP), community respiration (CR), and gross primary production (GPP) over an ice-free season in an oligotrophic high-elevation lake using high-frequency measurements of dissolved oxygen. We combined the use of free-water and incubation chamber measurements to compare pelagic and benthic habitats and estimate their relative contributions to whole-lake metabolism. Despite a brief period of predominant heterotrophy after snowmelt, both free-water and incubation chamber measurements confirmed autotrophy of the epilimnion in all habitats throughout the ice-free season. In contrast, benthic incubation chambers showed the benthos to be consistently heterotrophic. Although temperature was the strongest seasonal driver of benthic metabolism, bacterioplankton density and indexes of organic matter quality explained the most variability in pelagic metabolism. Driven largely by benthic metabolism, free-water measurements of GPP and CR were twice as high in littoral than pelagic habitats. However, rates of water column primary production overlying the littoral benthos were high enough to overcome net benthic heterotrophy, and seasonal mean NEP in littoral habitats remained positive and not significantly different from pelagic habitats. Benthic rates averaged about 25% of wholelake metabolism. Pelagic metabolism measurements were affected by littoral rates about half the time, with the degree of isolation between the two a function of advection and water column stability. These results emphasize the importance of characterizing spatial and temporal variability in metabolism within the context of physical dynamics and challenge the notion that benthic metabolism will necessarily be larger than pelagic metabolism in oligotrophic lakes.
27823734|Mediterranean ecosystems have been impacted for millennia by human practices, particularly agricultural and pastoral activities. Since the middle of the nineteenth century, land-use abandonment has lead to scrubland and forest expansion, especially in mountain areas of the northern Mediterranean basin. This study aimed at analyzing how grazing history affects subsequent forest dynamics at a site located in the limestone foothills of the Southern Alps (France). The approach combines archival documents and dendroecology to investigate the origin, establishement and development of forest following land-use abandonment. Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) started to colonize quickly in the 1870s, with the recruitment rate increasing during the first decade of the 1900s, associated with a decline of the local human population and regional livestock. Since the 1960s, European beech (Fagus sylvatica) and silver fir (Abies alba) have regenerated in the understorey of Scots pines. Regeneration is controlled by a threshold of grazing pressure. Noticeably, the rate of reforestation differs according to the former land-use, with pastures being colonized more quickly than ploughed areas. Different previous land-uses leading to different times of grazing cessation, combined with variable herbaceous competition explain the contrasting microscale regeneration patterns. Agricultural land-use and abandonment are both significant driving forces of vegetation dynamics. Knowledge of these factors is thus necessary to understand present patterns and to predict future forest pathways in the Mediterranean mountains.
40792947|This article reports the results of a study of submarine groundwater discharge (SGD) to coastal waters of Majorca (NW Mediterranean). The overall aim is to evaluate the relevance of SGD of the island and chemically characterize the components that are supplied to the coastal waters through this pathway. Although other discharge areas are identified, we particularly focus on SGD in bays and areas of increased sea water residence time where effects of the discharges are expected to be most notable. Analysis at four selected embayments with different land-use characteristics indicated a link between human activities (mainly agriculture and urban) and compounds arriving to the coast. A pathway for these elements is the diffuse discharge along the shoreline, as suggested by the inverse relationship between salinity and nutrients in nearshore porewaters. A general survey was conducted at 46 sites around the island, and used dissolved radium as a qualitative indicator of SGD. Measurements of nutrients (P and N), pCO and TOC were performed to characterize the elements delivered to the coastal environment. Most nearshore samples showed 224 Ra enrichment (mean  SE, 7.0  0.6 dpm 100 l) with respect to offshore waters (1.1  0.2 dpm 100 l); however, Ra measurements along the coast were highly variable (1.0-38.1 dpm 100 l). Coastal samples with enhanced radium levels showed elevated pCO with respect to atmospheric concentrations, which together with high pCO in groundwater (> 5,000 ppm) indicates that SGD is an important vector of CO to coastal waters. Moreover, a relationship between Ra and phytoplankton biomass was established, suggesting an important impact of SGD on coastal productivity. The results presented here provide a first approximation of the SGD effect in the coastal waters of Majorca, and indicate that SGD could be an important source of nutrients and CO to the coast, strongly influencing the productivity and biogeochemical cycling of the coastal waters of Majorca.
3658825|Although the watershed approach has long been used to study whole-ecosystem function, it has seldom been applied to study human-dominated systems, especially those dominated by urban and suburban land uses. Here we present 3 years of data on nitrogen (N) losses from one completely forested, one agricultural, and six urban/suburban watersheds, and input-output N budgets for suburban, forested, and agricultural watersheds. The work is a product of the Baltimore Ecosystem Study, a long-term study of urban and suburban ecosystems, and a component of the US National Science Foundation's long-term ecological research (LTER) network. As expected, urban and suburban watersheds had much higher N losses than did the completely forested watershed, with N yields ranging from 2.9 to
40928217|Spruce budworm (Choristoneura fumiferana Clem.) is an important and recurrent disturbance throughout spruce (Picea sp.) and balsam fir (Abies balsamea L.) dominated forests of North America. Forest carbon (C) dynamics in these ecosystems are affected during insect outbreaks because millions of square kilometers of forest suffer growth loss and mortality. We tested the hypothesis that a spruce budworm outbreak similar to those in the past could switch a forest from a C sink to a source in the near future. We used a model of ecosystem C to integrate past spruce budworm impact sequences with current forest management data on 106,000 km of forest in eastern Qubec. Spruce budworm-caused mortality decreased stand-level merchantable C stocks by 11-90% and decreased ecosystem C stocks by 2-10% by the end of the simulation. For the first 13 years (2011-2024), adding spruce budworm significantly reduced ecosystem C stock change for the landscape from a sink (4.6  2.7 g C m y in 2018) to a source ( 16.8  3.0 g C m y in 2018). This result was mostly due to reduced net primary production. The ecosystem stock change was reduced on average by 2 Tg C y for the entire simulated area. This study provides the first estimate that spruce budworm can significantly affect the C sink or source status of a large landscape. These results indicate that reducing spruce budworm impacts on timber may also provide an opportunity to mitigate a C source.
40296388|Ecological filters and nutrient heterogeneity are important in the function of ecosystems. Herbaceous layers alter forest ecosystems by filtering tree species during early stages of tree reproduction and influencing nutrient cycling. Important aspects about how tree species successfully establish below and extend above this ecological filter are unanswered in forest ecology. We experimentally tested the effects of large ungulate carcasses on the filtering function of herbaceous layers. Even wellutilized carcasses created unexpected disturbances that reduced herbaceous cover, which effectively perforated the herbaceous layer filter that can differentially influence tree reproduction. Carcasses also created lasting biogeochemical "hotspots" in forest soils that may help maintain plant biodiversity by creating resource heterogeneity and shifting competitive relationships. Because the spatial distribution of carcasses is influenced by predators, these data establish an unrecognized link between large carnivores, prey carcasses, and ecosystem processes. This link supports a novel understanding of disturbance by large herbivores in forest ecosystems by demonstrating an important interaction between predator-prey functional traits and tree seedling dynamics on either side of a major ecological filter.
3658707|Human land-use activities differ from natural disturbance processes and may elicit novel biotic responses and disrupt existing biotic-environmental relationships. The widespread prevalence of land use requires that human activity be addressed as a fundamental ecological process and that lessons from investigations of land-use history be applied to landscape conservation and management. Changes in the intensity of land use and extent of forest cover in New England over the past 3 centuries provide the opportunity to evaluate the nature of forest response and reorganization to such broad-scale disturbance. Using a range of archival data and modern studies, we assessed historical changes in forest vegetation and land use from the Colonial period (early 17th century) to the present across a
27823691|Well-founded methods to assess habitat connectivity are essential to inform land management decisions that include conservation and restoration goals. Indeed, to be able to develop a conservation plan that maintains animal movement through a fragmented landscape, spatial locations of habitat and paths among them need to be represented. Graph-based approaches have been proposed to determine paths among habitats at various scales and dispersal movement distances, and balance data requirements with information content. Conventional graphs, however, do not explicitly maintain geographic reference, reducing communication capacity and utility of other geo-spatial information. We present spatial graphs as a unifying theory for applying graph-based methods in a geographic context. Spatial graphs integrate a geometric reference system that ties patches and paths to specific spatial locations and spatial dimensions. Arguably, the complete graph, with paths between every pair of patches, may be one of the most relevant graphs from an ecosystem perspective, but it poses challenges to compute, process and visualize. We developed Minimum Planar Graphs as a spatial generalization of Delaunay triangulations to provide a reasonable approximation of complete graphs that facilitates visualization and comprehension of the network of connections across landscapes. If, as some authors have suggested, the minimum spanning tree identifies the connectivity "backbone" of a landscape, then the Minimum Planar Graph identifies the connectivity "network". We applied spatial graphs, and in particular the Minimum Planar Graph, to analyze woodland caribou habitat in Manitoba, Canada to support the establishment of a national park.
3658970|Strong inference is a powerful and rapid tool that can be used to identify and explain patterns in molecular biology, cell biology, and physiology. It is effective where causes are single and separable and where discrimination between pairwise alternative hypotheses can be determined experimentally by a simple yes or no answer. But causes in ecological systems are multiple and overlapping and are not entirely separable. Frequently, competing hypotheses cannot be distinguished by a single unambiguous test, but only by a suite of tests of different kinds, that produce a body of evidence to support one line of argument and not others. We call this process "adaptive inference". Instead of pitting each member of a pair of hypotheses against each other, adaptive inference relies on the exuberant invention of multiple, competing hypotheses, after which carefully structured comparative data are used to explore the logical consequences of each. Herein we present an example that demonstrates the attributes of adaptive inference that have developed out of a 30-year study of the resilience of ecosystems.
41505993|To explore within-gap spatial patterns of soil surface CO flux, we measured instantaneous soil surface CO flux, soil surface temperature, and soil moisture in north-south transects across canopy gaps and in adjacent contiguous forest from April to November 2010 in a second-growth northern hardwood forest in Wisconsin, USA. Throughout the growing season, soil surface CO flux was higher in the northern 1/3 and northern edge of gaps compared to the central and southern portions. These patterns were driven primarily by within-gap variation in soil temperature, which was itself driven by within-gap patterns of insolation. Most locations in the northern 1/3 and northern edge of gaps had significantly higher modeled total growing season C flux (mean 725 g C m) compared to the contiguous forest (mean 706 g C m), whereas C flux in the central and southern portions of gaps (mean 555 g C m) was significantly lower than both the contiguous forest and the northern portions of gaps.
40603499|Herbivory can lead to shifts in ecosystem state or changes in ecosystem functioning, and recovery from herbivory is particularly slow in disturbancesensitive ecosystems such as arctic tundra. Herbivore impacts on ecosystems are variable in space and time due to population fluctuations and selective utilization of habitats; thus there is a need to accurately predict herbivore impacts at the landscape scale. The habitat utilization and extent of disturbance caused by increasing populations of pink-footed geese (Anser brachyrhynchus) foraging in the high arctic tundra of Svalbard were assessed using a predictive model of the population's habitat use. Pink-footed geese arrive in Svalbard in early spring when they forage for belowground plant parts; this foraging (called grubbing) can cause vegetation loss and soil disturbance. Surveys of the extent and intensity of grubbing were carried out to develop predictive models that were subsequently tested against data collected during the following year from different areas. Both habitat type at a particular point and the amount of preferred fen habitat in the surrounding area were powerful predictors of grubbing likelihood and the developed model correctly classified over 69% of validation observations with an AUC of 0.75. Pink-footed geese showed a strong preference for wetter habitats within low-lying landscapes. Extrapolation of the predictive model across the archipelago showed that a maximum potential area of 2300 km 2 (3.8% of the archipelago) could be disturbed by grubbing. Thus, increasing populations of geese may cause large-scale vegetation loss and soil disturbance in arctic ecosystems.
40603624|The large pool of actively cycling carbon (C) held in soils is susceptible to release due to changes in landuse, management, or climate. Yet, the amount and distribution of potentially mineralizable C present in soils of various types and the method by which this soil C fraction can best be quantified, are not well established. The distribution of total organic C (TOC), extractable C pools (hot-water-extractable and acidhydrolyzable), and in vitro mineralizable C in 138 surface soils across a north Florida watershed was found to be quite heterogeneous. Thus, these C quality parameters could not statistically distinguish the eight landuses or four major soil orders represented. Only wetland and upland forest soils, with the largest and smallest C pool size, respectively, were consistently different from the soils of other landuse types. Variations in potential C mineralization were best explained by TOC (62%) and hot-waterextractable C (59%), whereas acid-hydrolyzable C (32%) and clay content (35%) were generally not adequate indicators of C bioavailability. Within certain landuse and soil orders (Alfisol, Wetland and Rangeland, all with >3% clay content), however, C mineralization and clay content were directly linearly correlated, indicating a possible stimulatory effect of clay on microbial processing of C. Generally, the sandy nature of these surface soils imparted a lack of protection against C mineralization and likely resulted in the lack of landuse/soil order differences in the soil C pools. If a single parameter is to be chosen to quantify the potential for soil C mineralization in southeastern U.S. coastal plain soils, we recommend TOC as the most efficient soil variable to measure.
25053851|Spawning Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) contribute marine-derived nutrients to riparian ecosystems, potentially affecting characteristics of the associated soils and vegetation. We quantified these effects by comparing soil and vegetative characteristics upstream and downstream of natural migratory barriers on ten spawning streams in southwest Alaska. Mean
40603625|We explored the net effects of grazing on soil C and N pools in a Patagonian shrub-grass steppe (temperate South America). Net effects result from the combination of direct impacts of grazing on biogeochemical characteristics of microsites with indirect effects on relative cover of vegetated and unvegetated microsites. Within five independent areas, we sampled surface soils in sites subjected to three grazing intensities: (1) ungrazed sites inside grazing exclosures, (2) moderately grazed sites adjacent to them, and (3) intensely grazed sites within the same paddock. Grazing significantly reduced soil C and N pools, although this pattern was clearest in intensely grazed sites. This net effect was due to the combination of a direct reduction of soil N content in bare soil patches, and indirect effects mediated by the increase of the cover of bare soil microsites, with lower C and N content than either grass or shrub microsites. This increase in bare soil cover was accompanied by a reduction in cover of preferred grass species and standing dead material. Finally, stable isotope signatures varied significantly among grazed and ungrazed sites, with N and C significantly depleted in intensely grazed sites, suggesting reduced mineralization with increased grazing intensity. In the Patagonian steppe, grazing appears to exert a negative effect on soil C and N cycles; sound management practices must incorporate the importance of species shifts within life form, and the critical role of standing dead material in maintaining soil C and N stocks and biogeochemical processes.
3658648|In fluvial systems, the interactions between rivers and groundwater significantly affect various ecological structures (for example, riparian vegetation) and functions. To examine the effects of hydrological exchange between groundwater and surface water on the distribution of aquatic invertebrates within a riverine landscape, we investigated the main stem, tributaries, and various surface and subsurface waters of two floodplains of a southern Alpine river (Brenno, Switzerland) in terms of their physicochemical, hydraulic, substratum, and faunal characteristics. The origins of the water were investigated by analyzing geomorphic settings and physicochemical variables. The two floodplains had different hydrological regimes. The middle floodplain was dominated by lateral inputs and exfiltration of hillslope groundwater from two different subcatchments. Bank filtration of river water sustained subsurface water only close to the channel. The aquatic habitats of the middle floodplain formed a rather homogeneous group with high taxon richness and intrahabitat diversities. These aquatic habitats resembled mountain springbrooks in their physicochemical characteristics and faunal compositions. In the lower floodplain, the exchange between river water and groundwater was more extensive. The aquatic floodplain habitats of the lower floodplain were fed mainly by deep and shallow alluvial groundwater, hyporheic exfiltration, and partly by surface water. In contrast to aquatic habitats of the middle floodplain, habitats of the lower floodplain showed a low intrahabitat and a high interhabitat diversity in terms of both substrate characteristics and faunal compositions. For both floodplains, ordination analyses showed a high concordance between the structure of the invertebrate community and the characteristics of the environmental habitat, including chemical, geomorphic, and hydraulic variables. Ordinations grouped aquatic habitats according to the origins of the waters. Taxon richness was related to local structural diversity, but species turnover was related to differential vertical and lateral connectivity. Exfiltration of groundwaters provided aquatic floodplain habitats for several specialized species. The results of this study show the significance of the river-groundwater connectivity for the creation of the habitat mosaic that sustains biodiversity in floodplains and thus have important implications for managing the ecological integrity of floodplains.
27823713|Riparian areas contain structurally diverse habitats that are challenging to monitor routinely and accurately over broad areas. As the structural variability within riparian areas is often indiscernible using moderate-scale satellite imagery, new mapping techniques are needed. We used high spatial resolution satellite imagery from the QuickBird satellite to map harvested and intact forests in coastal British Columbia, Canada. We distinguished forest structural classes used in riparian restoration planning, each with different restoration costs. To assess the accuracy of high spatial resolution imagery relative to coarser imagery, we coarsened the pixel resolution of the image, repeated the classifications, and compared results. Accuracy assessments produced individual class accuracies ranging from 70 to 90% for most classes; whilst accuracies obtained using coarser scale imagery were lower. We also examined the implications of map error on riparian restoration budgets derived from our classified maps. To do so, we modified the confusion matrix to create a cost error matrix quantifying costs associated with misclassification. High spatial resolution satellite imagery can be useful for riparian mapping; however, errors in restoration budgets attributable to misclassification error can be significant, even when using highly accurate maps. As the spatial resolution of imagery increases, it will be used more routinely in ecosystem ecology. Thus, our ability to evaluate map accuracy in practical, meaningful ways must develop further. The cost error matrix is one method that can be adapted for conservation and planning decisions in many ecosystems.
3658842|We developed a dynamic model to investigate the effect of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
3658639|The effects of CO
40603628|Field studies of atmospheric CO effects on ecosystems usually include few levels of CO and a single soil type, making it difficult to ascertain the shape of responses to increasing CO or to generalize across soil types. The Lysimeter CO Gradient (LYCOG) chambers were constructed to maintain a linear gradient of atmospheric CO (~ 250 to 500 l1) on grassland vegetation established on intact soil monoliths from three soil series. The chambers maintained a linear daytime CO gradient from 263 l 1 at the subambient end of the gradient to 502 l1 at the superambient end, as well as a linear nighttime CO gradient. Temperature variation within the chambers affected aboveground biomass and evapotranspiration, but the effects of temperature were small compared to the expected effects of CO . Aboveground biomass on Austin soils was 40% less than on Bastrop and Houston soils. Biomass differences between soils resulted from variation in biomass of Sorghastrum nutans, Bouteloua curtipendula, Schizachyrium scoparium (C grasses), and Solidago canadensis (C forb), suggesting the COsensitivity of these species may differ among soils. Evapotranspiration did not differ among the soils, but the COsensitivity of leaf-level photosynthesis and water use efficiency in S. canadensis was greater on Houston and Bastrop than on Austin soils, whereas the COsensitivity of soil CO efflux was greater on Bastrop oils than on Austin or Houston soils. The effects of soil type on CO sensitivity may be smaller for some processes that are tightly coupled to microclimate. LYCOG is useful for discerning the effects of soil type on the CO sensitivity of ecosystem function in grasslands.
3658741| Predicted changes in climate may affect key soil processes such as respiration and net nitrogen (N) mineralization and thus key ecosystem functions such as carbon (C) storage and nutrient availability. To identify the sensitivity of shrubland soils to predicted climate changes, we have carried out experimental manipulations involving ecosystem warming and prolonged summer drought in ericaceous shrublands across a European climate gradient. We used retractable covers to create artificial nighttime warming and prolonged summer drought to
25053817|The results of nitrogen (N) fertilization experiments have shown inconsistent rates of plant litter decomposition, a phenomenon that may be explained by dispropotionate influence of animal detritivores (macro-detritivores) on litter mass loss versus that of microbial decomposers, whose activity may be dependent on inorganic N. In turn, macrodetritivores may be influenced by plant species composition via their selection of optimal food resources and habitats. In our experiment, fertilizer had no apparent effect on litter decomposition, suggesting that microbial decomposers did not use the additional inorganic N and/or that macrodetritivores had a greater influence on decomposition. Manipulation of macrodetritivores suggested that plant species composition-dominated in this study by Festuca arundinacea, an exotic, invasive grass, and Aster ericoides, a native forb-caused shifts in detrivore communities and/or feeding patterns that tended to increase litter mass loss. Canopy cover of F. arundinacea and A. ericoides ranged from 0% to 11%, suggesting that low-intensity invasion may produce significant changes in ecosystem function, such as decomposition.
25470351|Although ecosystem-based management can lead to sustainable resource use, its successful implementation depends on stakeholders' acceptance. A framework to integrate scientific knowledge about the ecosystems with stakeholders' preferences is therefore needed. We propose here a 'Public Sentiment Index,' or PSI, as an integration framework that combines an ecosystem model (Ecopath with Ecosim; EwE) with a public choice model (the damage schedule). Using Chesapeake Bay as a case study, we demonstrate the development of the PSI, based on judgments of Bay stakeholders, including 'watermen' (commercial fishers), seafood wholesalers and retailers, recreational fishers, representatives from non-governmental organizations, scientists and managers on a range of Bay ecosystems. The high PSI for Chesapeake Bay suggests a consensus amongst Bay stakeholders who, understanding the need for restoring the Bay ecosystem, may accept difficult policy choices and support their implementation.
40603418|Fire is an important control on the carbon (C) balance of the boreal forest region. Here, we present findings from two complementary studies that examine how fire modifies soil organic matter properties, and how these modifications influence rates of decomposition and C exchange in black spruce (Picea mariana) ecosystems of interior Alaska. First, we used laboratory incubations to explore soil temperature, moisture, and vegetation effects on CO 2 and DOC production rates in burned and unburned soils from three study regions in interior Alaska. Second, at one of the study regions used in the incubation experiments, we conducted intensive field measurements of net ecosystem exchange (NEE) and ecosystem respiration (ER) across an unreplicated factorial design of burning (2 year post-fire versus unburned sites) and drainage class (upland forest versus peatland sites). Our laboratory study showed that burning reduced the sensitivity of decomposition to increased temperature, most likely by inducing moisture or substrate quality limitations on decomposition rates. Burning also reduced the decomposability of Sphagnum-derived organic matter, increased the hydrophobicity of feather moss-derived organic matter, and increased the ratio of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) to total dissolved nitrogen (TDN) in both the upland and peatland sites. At the ecosystem scale, our field measurements indicate that the surface organic soil was generally wetter in burned than in unburned sites, whereas soil temperature was not different between the burned and unburned sites.Analysis of variance results showed that ER varied with soil drainage class but not by burn status, averaging 0.9  0.1 and 1.4  0.1 g C m207B d207B in the upland and peatland sites, respectively. However, a more complex general linear model showed that ER was controlled by an interaction between soil temperature, moisture, and burn status, and in general was less variable over time in the burned than in the unburned sites. Together, findings from these studies across different spatial scales suggest that although fire can create some soil climate conditions more conducive to rapid decomposition, rates of C release from soils may be constrained following fire by changes in moisture and/or substrate quality that impede rates of decomposition.
3658840|Invasion of north temperate forest soils by exotic earthworms has the potential to alter microbial biomass and activity over large areas of North America. We measured the distribution and activity of microbial biomass in forest stands invaded by earthworms and in adjacent stands lacking earthworms in sugar maple-dominated forests in two locations in New York State, USA: one with a history of cultivation and thin organic surface soil horizons (forest floors) and the other with no history of cultivation and a thick (3-5 cm) forest floor. Earthworm invasion greatly reduced pools of microbial biomass in the forest floor and increased pools in the mineral soil. Enrichment of the mineral soil was much more marked at the site with thick forest floors. The increase in microbial biomass carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) in the mineral soil at this site was larger than the decrease in the forest floor, resulting in a net increase in total soil profile microbial biomass in the invaded plots. There was an increase in respiration in the mineral soil at both sites, which is consistent with a movement of organic matter and microbial biomass into the mineral soil. However, N-cycle processes (mineralization and nitrification) did not increase along with respiration. It is likely that the earthworm-induced input of C into the mineral soil created a microbial "sink" for N, preventing an increase in net mineralization and nitrification and conserving N in the soil profile.
41505966|Dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) can comprise a large and biologically important fraction of total dissolved N in surface water. Biotic and abiotic processes result in heterogeneous DON concentrations and bioavailability in soils, and as hydrologie connectivity expands and flow paths change in watersheds, novel sources of DON can be mobilized and transported to surface water. Although the relationship between in-stream DOC concentration and stream discharge has previously been examined in the literature, up to now there has not been a synthesis examining how DON concentrations, loads, and composition change during transitions from base flow to pulse flow conditions. We present a meta-analysis examining the effect of high flow on DON concentration ([DON]). The ratio of mean pulse flow [DON] to mean base flow [DON] (P:B) was calculated for individual events and averaged (geometric) within and then across sites to generate an overall effect size. For 47 sites (78 events), mean P:B was 1.58, which was significantly different from unity. This moderate increase in DON concentration contributed to over a more than 10-fold average increase in the rate of DON yield from base flow to high flow. The response of [DON] to high flow was significant in catchments where individual storm events or snowmelt runoff events were responsible for elevated flows, whereas the response was not significant in catchments where high discharge resulted from a mixture of upstream snowmelt and rain events. Additionally, an examination of DOC:DON ratios during high flow indicates that multiple sources of DON may be mobilized during high flow. Finally, current models of annual DON export may be improved by including a positive relationship between discharge and DON.
40603428|The recent infestation of southern Appalachian eastern hemlock stands by hemlock woolly adelgid (HWA) is expected to have dramatic and lasting effects on forest structure and function. We studied the short-term changes to the carbon cycle in a mixed stand of hemlock and hardwoods, where hemlock was declining due to either girdling or HWA infestation. We expected that hemlock would decline more rapidly from girdling than from HWA infestation.Unexpectedly, in response to both girdling and HWA infestation, hemlock basal area increment (BAI) reduced substantially compared to reference hardwoods in 3 years. This decline was concurrent with moderate increases in the BAI of co-occurring hardwoods. Although the girdling treatment resulted in an initial pulse of hemlock needle inputs, cumulative litter inputs and O horizon mass did not differ between treatments over the study period. Following girdling and HWA infestation, very fine root biomass declined by 20-40% in 2 years, which suggests hemlock root mortality in the girdling treatment, and a reduction in hemlock root production in the HWA treatment. Soil CO efflux (E soil ) declined by approximately 20% in 1 year after both girdling and HWA infestation, even after accounting for the intra-annual variability of soil temperature and moisture. The reduction in E soil and the concurrent declines in BAI and standing very fine root biomass suggest rapid declines in hemlock productivity from HWA infestation. The accelerated inputs of detritus resulting from hemlock mortality are likely to influence carbon and nutrient fluxes, and dictate future patterns of species regeneration in these forest ecosystems.
40792950|Shifts in the seasonal timing of rainfall have the potential to substantially affect the immense terrestrial stores of soil organic carbon (C, SOC). It remains unclear, however, how changes in the timing of rainfall are influencing SOC storage. We hypothesized that a sustained shift in rainfall timing from winter to a spring-summer regime would reduce desert SOC stores by creating moist and warm soil conditions, thus promoting decomposition. To investigate this, we evaluated how an 11-year seasonal shift in rainfall (winter to springsummer regime) affected SOC storage (that is, dissolved organic C, light SOC, and heavy SOC) in soils beneath dominant shrub and perennial grass species in a cold desert sagebrush-steppe ecosystem. We also measured the soil C to nitrogen (N) ratios, standing litter stocks, and root biomass C to help interpret the long-term changes in SOC stores. As predicted, a seasonal shift in rainfall caused heavy SOC to decline beneath Artemisia tridentata ssp. wyomingensis by 14%, from 3.1 to 2.7 kg C m, and Pseudoroegneria spicata by 19%, from 3.0 to 2.4 kg Cm. Neither dissolved organic C, nor the light fraction, responded to changes in rainfall. The C to  ratio of heavy SOC beneath Artemisia declined by at least 6% under the warmer and moister conditions of the spring-summer regime, suggesting that alterations in decomposition dynamics contributed to the loss of SOC. Unexpectedly, coarse litter and root C in Artemisia soils were lower under the spring-summer than winter rainfall regime, suggesting that a decline in litter inputs may also have contributed to the loss of SOC. The C to  ratio of heavy SOC, litter stores (that is, coarse litter and thatch), and root C in Pseudoroegneria soils demonstrated similar responses as in Artemisia soils, but these variables were at best only marginally significant. Our results suggest that a sustained seasonal shift in rainfall from winter to spring-summer will reduce heavy SOC across cold deserts, and that this reduction will stem from alterations in decomposition dynamics and net primary production by plants. Further, as global temperatures rise we may see more overlap of moist and warm soil conditions, especially in ecosystems with winter rainfall regimes (for example, Mediterranean-climate ecosystems and temperate forests), that may reduce SOC in the absence of rainfall changes.
27823755|Soil erosion negatively affects crop yields and may have contributed to the collapse of ancient civilizations. Whether erosion may have such an impact on modern societies as well, is subject to debate. In this paper we quantify the relationship between crop yields and soil water available to plants, the most important yield-determining factor affected by erosion, at the European scale. Using information on the spatial distribution of erosion rates we calculate the potential threat of erosion-induced productivity losses. We show that future reductions in productivity in Europe as a whole are relatively small and do not pose a substantial threat to crop production within the coming century. However, within Europe there is considerable variability, and although productivity in northern Europe is not likely to be significantly reduced by soil erosion, for the southern countries the threat of erosion-induced productivity declines is stronger.
40603620|By 2050, 70% of the Earth's human population will live in urban areas. Urbanization can have a devastating impact on local ecosystems, but these impacts vary across time and space. Identifying links between spatiotemporal change in urban ecosystems and neighborhood socio-economics is crucial to management aimed at maintaining flora and fauna in urban areas. Here, we tracked 20 years of socio-economic change and 15 years of vegetation change in 32 residential neighborhoods in south-eastern Australia. Regression models that explicitly accounted for a time lag between neighborhood socio-economic characteristics and vegetation response explained more variation in vegetation cover than models that ignored the effects of time. Also, relationships between vegetation and socio-economic factors were stronger in later years for the same neighborhoods suggesting the influence of socio-economics is more readily identified in established neighborhoods. Socioeconomic variables alone, or in combination with biophysical variables, were better predictors of vegetation cover than only biophysical variables. Across space, vegetation cover had a negative quadratic relationship with neighborhood housing density, peaking at mid-density values, and a positive relationship with education level and immigration status (the percentage of residents with a non-Australian background). Over time, housing density had a positive relationship with vegetation cover, reflecting an increase in vegetation as neighborhoods develop. Our results highlight the need to understand temporal context when attempting to explain contemporary patterns in vegetation cover and the increasing importance of socio-economic factors in influencing cover as neighborhoods become established.
40296382|Changes in precipitation and nitrogen (N) deposition can influence ecosystem carbon (C) cycling and budget in terrestrial biomes, with consequent feedbacks to climate change. However, little is known about the main and interactive effects of water and N additions on net ecosystem C exchange (NEE). In a temperate steppe of northern China, a field-manipulated experiment was conducted to evaluate the responses of NEE and its components to improve N and water availability from 2005 to 2008. The results showed that both water and N additions stimulated gross ecosystem productivity (GEP), ecosystem respiration (ER), and NEE. Water addition increased GEP by 17%, ER by 24%, and NEE by 11% during the experimental period, whereas N addition increased GEP by 17%, ER by 16%, and NEE by 19%. The main effects of both water and N additions changed with time, with the strongest water stimulation in the dry year and a diminishing N stimulation over time. When water and N were added in combination, there were nonadditive effects of water and N on ecosystem C fluxes, which could be explained by the changes in species composition and the shifts of limiting resources from belowground (water or N) to aboveground (light). The positive water and N additions effects indicate that increasing precipitation and N deposition in the future will favor C sequestration in the temperate steppe. The non-additive effects of water and N on ecosystem C fluxes suggest that multifactor experiments are better able to capture complex interactive processes, thus improving model simulations and projections.
41507772|This study uses Bayesian networks (BNs) to simulate the spatial distribution of southern African biomes and bioregions using bioclimatic variables. Two Tree-Augmented Nave (TAN) BN models were parameterized from 23 bioclimatic variables using the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm. Using sensitivity analyses, the relative influence of each variable was determined using the mutual information from which six bioclimatic variables were selected for the final models. Precipitation of the warmest quarter and extra-terrestrial solar radiation was found to be the most influential variables on both bioregion and biome distributions. Isothermality was the least influential bioclimatic variable at both bioregion and biome levels. Overall correspondence was very high at 93.8 and 87.1% for biomes and bioregions, respectively, whereas classification errors were obtained in transition areas indicating the uncertainties associated with vegetation mapping around margins. The findings indicate that southern African bioregions and biomes can be classified and mapped according to key bioclimatic variables. Spatio-temporal, in particular, monthly and quarterly variations in both precipitation and temperature are found to be ecologically significant in determining the spatial distribution of biomes and bioregions. The findings also reflect the hierarchical relationship of biomes and bioregions as a function of local bioclimatic gradients and interactions. The results indicate the ecological significance of bioclimatic conditions in ecosystem science and offer the opportunity to utilize the models for predicting future responses and sensitivities to climatic changes.
40928231|Improved management of carbon storage by terrestrial biomes has significant value for mitigating climate change. The carbon value of such management has the potential to provide additional income to rural communities and provide biodiversity and climate adaptation co-benefits. Here, we quantify the carbon stores in a 49,300-ha landscape centered on the cloud forest-grassland transition of the high Andes in Manu National Park, Peru. Aboveground carbon densities were measured across the landscape by field sampling of 70 sites above and below the treeline. The forest near the treeline contained 63.4  5.2 Mg C ha aboveground, with an additional 13.9  2.8 Mg C ha estimated to be stored in the coarse roots, using a root to shoot ratio of 0.26. Puna grasslands near the treeline were found to store 7.5  0.7 Mg C ha in aboveground biomass. Comparing our result to soil data gathered by Zimmermann and others (Ecosystems 13: 62-74, 2010), we found the ratio of belowground: aboveground carbon decreased from 15.8 on the puna to 8.6 in the transition zone and 2.1 in the forest. No significant relationships were found between carbon densities and slope, altitude or fire disturbance history, though grazing (for puna) was found to reduce aboveground carbon densities significantly. We scaled our study sites to the study region with remote sensing observations from Landsat. The carbon sequestration potential of improved grazing management and assisted upslope treeline migration was also estimated. Afforestation of puna at the treeline could generate revenues of US $ 1,374 per ha over the project lifetime via commercialization of the carbon credits from gains in aboveground carbon stocks. Uncertainties in the fate of the large soil carbon stocks under an afforestation scenario exist.
3658793|Increasing concentrations of carbon dioxide ( CO
3658601|Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and leaf-area index (LAI) of lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm. ex Wats.) saplings and aboveground productivity of herbaceous vegetation components were determined 9 years after the 1988 fires in Yellowstone National Park (YNP). Measurements were made in four sites representing a wide range of early postfire vegetation present in YNP, including high-density lodgepole pine, low-density lodgepole pine, and two nonforest stands. LAI of the pine saplings and total ANPP (trees plus herbs) generally increased with increasing sapling density, from
3659010|The sustainable use of resources requires that management practices and institutions take into account the dynamics of the ecosystem. In this paper, we explore the role of local ecological knowledge and show how it is used in management practices by a local fishing association in a contemporary rural Swedish community. We focus on the local management of crayfish, a common-pool resource, and also address the way crayfish management is linked to institutions at different levels of Swedish society. Methods from the social sciences were used for information gathering, and the results were analyzed within the framework of ecosystem management. We found that the practices of local fishing association resemble an ecosystem approach to crayfish management. Our results indicate that local users have substantial knowledge of resource and ecosystem dynamics from the level of the individual crayfish to that of the watershed, as reflected in a variety of interrelated management practices embedded in and influenced by institutions at several levels. We propose that this policy of monitoring at several levels simultaneously, together with the interpretation of a bundle of indicators and associated management responses, enhances the possibility of building ecological resilience into the watershed. Furthermore, we found that flexibility and adaptation are required to avoid command-and-control pathways of resource management. We were able to trace the development of the local fishing association as a response to crisis, followed by the creation of an opportunity for reorganization and the recognition of slow ecosystem structuring variables, and also to define the role of knowledgeable individuals in the whole process. We discuss the key roles of adaptive capacity, institutional learning, and institutional memory for successful ecosystem management and conclude that scientific adaptive management could benefit from a more explicit collaboration with flexible community-based systems of resource management for the implementation of policies as experiments.
40928209|The ridge-slough landscape of the Everglades (Florida, USA), is characterized by elevated ridges dominated by sawgrass (Cladium jamaicense) interspersed among deeper sloughs dominated by floating, submerged and emergent macrophytes and calcareous periphyton. Interactions among hydrologie conditions (water depth, hydroperiod), plant composition and production, and respiration are hypothesized to create alternative peat accretion equilibria at the point scale, while spatial interactions among patches create regular pattern at the landscape scale. Despite significant research on these interactions, few studies have examined the hypothesis that the ridge-slough landscape consists of spatially coupled alternative stable patch states, and none has used diagnostic indicators thereof to assess landscape resilience to hydrologie change. Dense random sampling of water depths (a proxy for soil elevation) along a gradient of hydrologie impairment of drained to relatively natural to impounded conditions was used to evaluate four predictions related to this hypothesis: (1) bimodal soil elevation distributions show strong fidelity to community type; (2) positive autocorrelation at short distances with negative values at longer distances; (3) strong anisotropy (diagnostic of flow orientation), and spatial structure (diagnostic of the strength of landscape self-organization); and (4) loss of these features with hydrologie modification. Our results support the hypothesis that soil elevations are strongly bimodal and anisotropic in areas with minimal hydrologie impact, and spatial autocorrelation patterns indicate the operation of scale-dependent feedbacks. These metrics change markedly with hydrologie modification, although with differences between drainage and impoundment. Moreover, changes in landform precede associated changes in vegetation, suggesting their utility as diagnostic indicators of landscape degradation and recovery.
25470425|Evaluating, and possibly ameliorating, the effects of base cation depletion in forest soils caused by acid deposition is an important topic in the northeastern United States. We added 850 kg Ca ha as wollastonite (CaSiO) to an 11.8-ha watershed at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF), a northern hardwood forest in New Hampshire, USA, in fall 1999 to replace calcium (Ca) leached from the ecosystem by acid deposition over the past 6 decades. Soil microbial biomass carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) concentrations, gross and potential net N mineralization and nitrification rates, soil solution and stream chemistry, soil:atmosphere trace gas (CO, NO, CH) fluxes, and foliar N concentrations have been monitored in the treated watershed and in reference areas at the HBEF before and since the Ca addition. We expected that rates of microbial C and N cycle processes would increase in response to the treatment. By 2000, soil pH was increased by a full unit in the Oie soil horizon, and by 2002 it was increased by nearly 0.5 units in the Oa soil horizon. However, there were declines in the N content of the microbial biomass, potential net and gross N mineralization rates, and soil inorganic N pools in the Oie horizon of the treated watershed. Stream, soil solution, and foliar concentrations of N showed no response to treatment. The lack of stimulation of N cycling by Ca addition suggests that microbes may not be stimulated by increased pH and Ca levels in the naturally acidic soils at the HBEF, or that other factors (for example, phosphorus, or Ca binding of labile organic matter) may constrain the capacity of microbes to respond to increased pH in the treated watershed. Possible fates for the approximately 10 kg N ha decline in microbial and soil inorganic pools include components of the plant community that we did not measure (for example, seedlings, understory shrubs), increased fluxes of N and/or N storage in soil organic matter. These results raise questions about the factors regulating microbial biomass and activity in northern hardwood forests that should be considered in the context of proposals to mitigate the depletion of nutrient cations in soil.
25470372|In recent analysis of factors related to nomadism in birds of semi-arid southern Australia, Allen and Saunders concluded that nomadism was related particularly to proximity to natural breaks in an ordered sequence of body weights across species, with less important relationships with weight per se and diet. That analysis is flawed by incorrect dietary codings for more than half of the species considered. This paper corrects those errors and repeats the analysis. In contrast to the previous findings, nomadism is best predicted by diet, being by far most prevalent among nectarivorous birds and least prevalent among insectivores. Such a finding is consistent with previous studies of nomadism in Australian birds. The variable of proximity to a natural break in the weight distribution of species in this community, considered by Allen and Saunders to be closely associated with nomadism, is not significantly related to nomadism for six of the eight combinations of data considered, and it is far less important than diet for the two combinations in which it does have a weakly significant (P = 0.049, 0.034) relationship with nomadism.
27823719|Abundant large herbivores can strongly alter vegetation composition, shifting the ecosystem into a lasting state of changed productivity. Previous studies of the effects of abundant reindeer on alpine and arctic vegetation have yielded equivocal results, probably due to differing environmental contexts. To overcome context dependency we devised a large-scale survey in the region of Finnmark, northern Norway, possessing some of the most densely stocked reindeer herds in the world. The effects of reindeer abundance on summer pasture vegetation were assessed by employing a quasi-experimental design, including site fertility as a potential modifier of the reindeervegetation interaction. The study design comprised ten pairs of neighboring management districts (encompassing 18,003 km2), where over the two last decades a high-density district on average had reindeer densities more than twice as high and calf weights consistently lower than the low-density district. The abundance of different plant functional groups, ranging from those having facilitating to retarding effects on ecosystem productivity, were quantified by the point intercept method on plots selected according to a hierarchical, stratified random sampling design. Species with strong retarding effects on ecosystem productivity (for example, ericoids) were by far the most abundant. However, we found no consistent effects of reindeer density on their abundance. The most consistent differences between high- and low-density districts were found in plant functional groups with facilitating to neutral effects on ecosystem productivity. In particular, the abundance of N-facilitators, large dicotyledons and grasses were substantially reduced in the high-density districts. However, this reduction was restricted to fertile sites. Thus, reindeer when present at high densities have homogenized the biomass of palatable plants across environmental productivity gradients according to predictions from exploitation ecosystem models. Such reduction of plants with facilitating to neutral effects on ecosystem productivity indicates a reduced state of ecosystem productivity in high-density districts.
40928232|Forest fires often result in a series of biogeochemical processes that increase soil nitrate (NO) concentrations for several years; however, the dynamic nature of inorganic nitrogen (N) cycling in the plant-microbe-soil complex makes it challenging to determine the direct causes of increased soil NO. We measured gross inorganic N transformation rates in mineral soils 2 years after wildfires in three central Idaho coniferous forests to determine the causes of the elevated soil NO. We also measured key factors that could affect the soil N processes, including temperature during soil incubation in situ, soil water content, pH and carbon (C) availability. We found no significant differences (P = 0.461) in gross nitrification rates between burned and control soils. However, microbial NO uptake rates were significantly lower (P = 0.078) in burned than control soils. The reduced consumption of NO caused slightly elevated NO concentrations in the burned soils. C availability was positively correlated with microbial NO uptake rates. Despite reduced microbial NO uptake capacity in the burned soils, soil microbes were a strong enough  sink to maintain low soil NO concentrations 2 years post fire. Soil NH concentrations between the treatments were not significantly different (P = 0.673). However, gross NH production and microbial uptake rates in burned soils were significantly lower (P = 0.028 and 0.035, respectively) than in the controls, and these rates were positively correlated with C availability. Our results imply that C availability is an important factor regulating soil N cycling of coniferous forests in the region.
3658838|We analyzed soil organic matter distribution and soil solution chemistry in plots with and without earthworms at two sugar maple (Acer saccharum)-dominated forests in New York State, USA, with differing land-use histories to assess the influence of earthworm invasion on the retention or loss of soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) in northern temperate forests. Our objectives were to assess the influence of exotic earthworm invasion on (a) the amount and depth distribution of soil C and N, (b) soil 
40296298|The cover and abundance of Juniperus virginiana L. in the U. S. Central Plains are rapidly increasing, largely as a result of changing land-use practices that alter fire regimes in native grassland communities. Little is known about how conversion of native grasslands to JMm'perws-dominated forests alters soil nutrient availability and ecosystem storage of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N), although such land-cover changes have important implications for local ecosystem dynamics, as well as regional C and N budgets. Four replicate native grasslands and adjacent areas of recent J. virginiana encroachment were selected to assess potential changes in soil N availability, leaf-level photosynthesis, and major ecosystem C and N pools. Net N mineralization rates were assessed in situ over two years, and changes in labile soil organic pools (potential C and N mineralization rates and microbial biomass C and N) were determined. Photosynthetic nitrogen use efficiencies (PNUE) were used to examine differences in instantaneous leaf-level N use in C uptake. Comparisons of ecosystem C and N stocks revealed significant C and N accrual in both plant biomass and soils in these newly established forests, without changes in labile soil N pools. There were few differences in monthly in situ net N mineralization rates, although cumulative annual net N mineralization was greater in forest soils compared to grasslands. Conversely, potential C mineralization was significantly reduced in forest soils. Encroachment by J. virginiana into grasslands results in rapid accretion of ecosystem C and N in plant and soil pools with little apparent change in N availability. Widespread increases in the cover of woody plants, like J. virginiana, in areas formerly dominated by graminoid species suggest an increasing role of expanding woodlands and forests as regional C sinks in the central U. S.
41505995|Intensification of catchment land use often adversely affects ecosystem health in rivers and estuaries via changes to physicochemistry and ecosystem functioning, but whether such land-use effects differ along a freshwater-marine continuum has not been studied. We investigated relationships between intensity of land use and two measures of ecosystem function in freshwater, estuarine and near-marine habitats. Standardized bioassays to determine cellulose breakdown (cotton and canvas strips) and algal accrual rates (ceramic tiles) were deployed in 10 river-to-marine continua whose catchment areas ranged from 2.6 to 99.6% developed. Using general linear models and an information-theoretic approach to select the best predictive models for our response variables, we found that higher dissolved phosphorus concentrations, linked with highly developed catchments, were associated with greater rates of cellulose decomposition (both tensile strength loss and mass loss). Furthermore, after controlling for the contribution of phosphorus or salinity, decomposition rates in freshwater and near-marine habitats generally responded curvilinearly to catchment development, indicating the involvement of additional unmeasured, land-userelated physicochemical or biological variables. The strength and shape of relationships between percentage developed land area and algal biomass accrual rates also contrasted among freshwater (strongest, curvilinear), mid-estuary (intermediate, positive), and near-marine sites (weakest, no obvious shape). Because land-use intensity can influence ecosystem functioning along the entire continuum from streams and rivers to estuaries and coasts, resource managers should adopt an integrated approach to decisions affecting catchment land use.
3659036|We used field studies and imaging spectroscopy to investigate the effect of grazing on vegetation cover in historically grazed and ungrazed high-mesa rangelands of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, Utah, USA. Airborne hyperspectral remote sensing data coupled with spectral mixture analysis uncovered subtle variations in the key biogeophysical properties of these rangelands: the fractional surface cover of photosynthetic vegetation (PV), nonphotosynthetic vegetation (NPV), and bare soil. The results show that a high-mesa area with long-term grazing management had significantly higher PV (26.3%), lower NPV (54.5%), and lower bare soil (17.2%) cover fractions in comparison to historically ungrazed high-mesa pinyon-juniper rangelands. Geostatistical analyses of remotely sensed PV, NPV, and bare soil were used to analyze differences in ecosystem structure between grazed and ungrazed regions. They showed that PV was spatially autocorrelated over longer distances on grazed areas, whereas NPV and bare soil were spatially autocorrelated over longer distances on ungrazed areas. Field data on the fractional cover of PV, NPV, and bare soil confirmed these remote sensing results locally. Field studies also showed a significantly higher percentage composition of shrubs (27.3%) and forbs (30.2%) and a significantly lower composition of grasses (34.4%) and cacti (1.1%) in grazed areas. No significant difference between grazed and ungrazed mesas was found in percentage composition of trees or in the number of canopies per hectare. Our combined remote sensing and field-based results suggest that grazing has contributed to woody thickening in these pinyon-juniper ecosystems through an increase in shrubs in the understory and intercanopy spaces. These results improve our understanding of broad-scale changes in pinyon-juniper ecosystem structural composition and variability due to longterm grazing.
3658773|Changes in climate could have far-reaching consequences for ecosystems sensitive to changes in temperature and precipitation, such as boreal permafrost peatlands and grassland/woodland boundaries. The long-term data from our studies in these ecosystems suggest that transient responses of permafrost and vegetation to climate change may be difficult to predict due to lags and positive feedbacks related to vegetation and disturbance. Boreal permafrost peatlands comprise an ecosystem with strong local controls on microclimate that influence the formation and thaw of permafrost. These local controls may preserve permafrost during the transient stages of climate warming, producing lagged responses. The prairie-forest border region of the northern Great Plains has experienced frequent change and has complex dynamics involving transitions in the grassland composition of prairie and in the degree of woodiness in bordering forests. Fire frequency interacts with fuel loading and tree recruitment in ways that affect the timing and direction of change. Lags and thresholds could lead to sudden large responses to future climate change that are not readily apparent from current vegetation. The creation of adequate models to characterize transient ecosystem changes will require an understanding of the linkages among processes operating at the scale of 10s of meters and over long time periods.
41507780|Passive open-top chambers (OTCs) and rainout shelters (RSs) have been used for over two decades to manipulate temperature and water availability in experiments on plant communities. These types of manipulations have been independently evaluated; however, as experiments become more complex and multiple factors are evaluated the potential for unknown or undesirable treatment effects increases. We present the effects of temperature manipulations (with OTCs), water manipulations (with RSs and water additions), and a clipping treatment, implemented in a fully factorial design, on soil moisture and temperature over 2 years in a temperate grassland. Temperature was increased 0.2 C by OTCs. Soil volumetric water content was reduced 3% by RSs and increased 2% by watering. However, clipping vegetation, treatment interactions, and weather conditions also affected soil temperature and moisture. For example, in OTCs RSs increased the temperature an additional 0.4C, watering lowered it 0.4C, and clipping raised temperature 2C. Similarly, changes in soil moisture due to the RSs decreased VWC by 3% and increased 1 % by clipping whereas soil moisture due to watering was reduced 1% by the OTCs and clipping. We also found that OTCs are more effective at raising temperatures on cooler days when soil temperatures are below 16.3C. Our results suggest that all treatment types generally affect soil variables in predicable ways, but use of such devices should be adopted with caution, as they do not act independently, or exclusively, on the target variables.
3659035|We measured net ecosystem exchange of carbon dioxide ( CO
40296414|We assessed how consequences of future land-use change may affect size and spatial shifts of C stocks under three potential trends in policy(a) business-as-usual: continuation of land-use trends observed during the past 15 years; (b) extensification: full extensification of open-land; and (c) liberalization: full reforestation potential. The build-up times for the three scenarios are estimated at 30, 80 and 100 years, respectively. Potential C-stock change rates are derived from the literature. Whereas the business-as-usual scenario would cause marginal changes of 0.5%, liberalization would provoke a 13% increase in C stocks (+ 62 MtC). Gains of 24% would be expected for forests (+ 95 MtC), whereas open-land C stock would decrease 27% (-33 MtC). Extensification would lead to a C stock decrease of 3% (-12 MtC). Whereas forest C is expected to increase 12% (+ 36.5 MtC) at high elevations, stocks of open-land C would decline 38.5% (-48.5 MtC). Most affected are unfavorable grasslands, which increase in area (+ 59%) but contribute only 14.5% to the C stocks. C sinks would amount to 0.6 MtC y assuming a build-up time of 100 years for the liberalization scenario. C stocks on the current forest area are increasing by 1 MtC y. The maximal total C sink of 1.6 MtC might thus suffice to compensate for agricultural greenhouse gases (2004: 1.4 Mt CO -C equivalents), but corresponds only to 11-13% of the anthropogenic greenhouse gas emission in Switzerland. Thus, even the largest of the expected terrestrial C stocks under liberalization will be small in comparison with current emissions of anthropogenic greenhouse gases.
41505864|The Mediterranean Sea has been strongly influenced by human activities for millennia. Although the environmental history of its surrounding terrestrial ecosystems has received considerable study, historical changes in its marine realm are less known. We used a multidisciplinary approach combining paleontological, archeological, historical, fisheries, and ecological data to reconstruct past changes in marine populations, habitats, and water quality in the Adriatic Sea. Then, we constructed binary food webs for different historical periods to analyze possible changes in food-web structure and functioning over time. Our results indicate that human activities have influenced marine resource abundance since at least Roman times and accelerated in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Today, 98% of traditional marine resources are depleted to less than 50% of former abundance, with large (> 1 m) predators and consumers being most affected. With 37% of investigated species rare and 11% extirpated, diversity has shifted towards smaller, lower trophiclevel species, further aggravated by more than 40 species invasions. Species providing habitat and filter functions have been reduced by 75%, contributing to the degradation of water quality and increased eutrophication. Increased exploitation and functional extinctions have altered and simplified foodweb structure over time, especially by changing the proportions of top predators, intermediate consumers, and basal species. Moreover, simulations of species losses indicate that today's ecosystems may be less robust to species extinctions than in the past. Our results illustrate the long-term and far-reaching consequences human activities can have on marine food webs and ecosystems.
3658681|Plant species can influence nitrogen (N) cycling indirectly through the feedbacks of litter quality and quantity on soil N transformation rates. The goal of this research was to focus on small-scale (within-community) variation in soil N cycling associated with two community dominants of the moist meadow alpine tundra. Within this community, the small-scale patchiness of the two most abundant species (Acomastylis rossii and Deschampsia caespitosa) provides natural variation in species cover within a relatively similar microclimate, thus enabling estimation of the effects of plant species on soil N transformation rates. Monthly rates of soil N transformations were dependent on small-scale variation in both soil microclimate and species cover. The relative importance of species cover compared with soil microclimate increased for months 2 and 3 of the 3-month growing season. Growing-season net N mineralization rates were over ten times greater and nitrification rates were four times greater in Deschampsia patches than in Acomastylis patches. Variability in litter quality [carbon:nitrogen (C:N) and phenolic:N], litter quantity (aboveground and fine-root production), and soil quality (C:N) was associated with three principal components. Variability between the species in litter quality and fine-root production explained 31% of the variation in net N mineralization rates and 36% of net nitrification rates. Site variability across the landscape in aboveground production and soil C:N explained 33% of the variation in net N mineralization rates and 21% of net nitrification rates. Within the moist meadow community, the high spatial variability in soil N transformation rates was associated with differences in the dominant species' litter quality and fine-root production. Deschampsia-dominated patches consistently had greater soil N transformation rates than did Acomastylis-dominated patches across the landscape, despite site variability in soil moisture, soil C:N, and aboveground production. Plant species appear to be an important control of soil N transformation in the alpine tundra, and consequently may influence plant community structure and ecosystem function.
27823680|Biometric based carbon flux measurements were conducted over 5 years (19992003) in a temperate deciduous broad-leaved forest of the AsiaFlux network to estimate net ecosystem production (NEP). Biometric based NEP, as measured by the balance between net primary production (including NPP of canopy trees and of forest floor dwarf bamboo) and heterotrophic respiration (RH), clarified the contribution of various biological processes to the ecosystem carbon budget, and also showed where and how the forest is storing C. The mean NPP of the trees was 5.4  1.07 t C ha1 y1, including biomass increment (0.3  0.82 t C ha1 y1), tree mortality (1.0  0.61 t C ha1 y1), aboveground detritus production (2.3  0.39 t C ha1 y1) and belowground fine root production (1.8  0.31 t C ha1 y1). Annual biomass increment was rather small because of high tree mortality during the 5 years. Total NPP at the site was 6.5  1.07 t C ha1 y1, including the NPP of the forest floor community (1.1  0.06 t C ha1 y1). The soil surface CO2 efflux (RS) was averaged across the 5 years of record using open-flow chambers. The mean estimated annual RS amounted to 7.1  0.44 t C ha1, and the decomposition of soil organic matter (SOM) was estimated at 3.9  0.24 t C ha1. RH was estimated at 4.4  0.32 t C ha1 y1, which included decomposition of coarse woody debris. Biometric NEP in the forest was estimated at 2.1  1.15 t C ha1 y1, which agreed well with the eddy-covariance based net ecosystem exchange (NEE). The contribution of woody increment (biomass + mortality) of the canopy trees to NEP was rather small, and thus the SOM pool played an important role in carbon storage in the temperate forest. These results suggested that the dense forest floor of dwarf bamboo might have a critical role in soil carbon sequestration in temperate East Asian deciduous forests.
3659000| Soil respiration (SR), a substantial component of the forest carbon budget, has been studied extensively at the ecosystem, regional, continental, and global scales, but little progress has been made toward understanding SR over managed forest landscapes. Soil respiration is often influenced by soil temperature
41505937|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is recognized as a major component in the global carbon cycle and is an important driver in aquatic ecosystem function. Climate, land use, and forest cover changes all impact stream DOM and alter biogeochemical cycles in terrestrial environments. We determined the temporal variation in DOM quantity and quality in headwater streams at a reference watershed (REF), a watershed clear-cut 30 years ago (CC), and a watershed converted to a white pine plantation 50 years ago (WP) at the US Forest Service, Coweeta Hydrologie Laboratory, in the Nantahala Mountains of western North Carolina, USA. Average stream dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations in CC or WP were 60 and 80% of those in REF, respectively. Stream DOM composition showed that the difference was mainly due to changes in humiclike components in chromophoric DOM. In addition, excitation-emission matrix fluorescence data with parallel factor analysis indicate that although the concentration of protein-like components did not differ significantly among watersheds, their relative abundance showed an enrichment in CC and WP compared to REF. The ratio of humic acid-type to fulvic acid-type components was highest and lowest at REF and WP, respectively. Our data suggest that forest ecosystem disturbance history affects the DOM quantity and quality in headwater streams over decades as a result of changes in watershed soil organic matter characteristics due to differences in organic matter inputs.
3658595| Although tidal wetland vegetation patterns are typically related to elevation, we hypothesized that the vertical range of a species may shift where the topography is more heterogeneous. We examined plant species occurrences in relation to elevation, proximity to the bay, and proximity to tidal creeks at a near-pristine wetland in San Quintn Bay, Baja California, Mexico. At the whole-wetland scale, most species occurred primarily within a 30-cm elevation band (the marsh plain). However, Spartina foliosa occurred only at the bayward margin, even though "suitable" elevations were present further inland. A similar pattern was found in San Diego Bay. At the microtopographic scale, three species on the marsh plain were strongly influenced by elevation, whereas four species responded to both elevation and proximity to tidal creeks. The latter species tended to "avoid" the lower 10 cm of the marsh plain except near a tidal creek. Species richness was thus greater (by 0.6 species at the lowest 10-cm class) at the tidal creek margin. Better drainage near creeks is the hypothesized cause. Our results help explain why species that are transplanted to constructed wetlands do not always grow at the full range of elevations they occupy in natural wetlands. We recommend that species be introduced to their modal elevation (determined from nearby reference marshes) and that salt-marsh construction designs include topographic heterogeneity (complex tidal creek networks). The analysis of broad-scale and fine-scale patterns of occurrence also suggests new habitat nomenclature. Elevation-based terms ("low," "middle," and "high" marsh) should be replaced by a system that considers elevation, landscape position, and conspicuous species. We suggest three habitat designations: (a) the high marsh-a 30- to 70-cm elevation range with Salicornia subterminalis; (b) the marsh plain-a 30-cm elevation range with heterogeneous topography and up to nine common species; and (c) cordgrass habitat-the bayward portion of the marsh plain and lower elevations, all occupied by Spartina foliosa. Although these habitats do not have discrete boundaries, separate terms are needed for wetland restoration plans and these designations will improve recognition that vegetation patterns respond to horizontal, as well as vertical, position. 
27823726|To interpret broad-scale erosion and accretion patterns and the expansion and contraction of shrub thickets in response to sea level rise for a coastal barrier system, we examined the fine-scale processes of shrub recruitment and mortality within the context of the influence of ocean current and sediment transport processes on variations in island size and location. We focused on Myrica cerifera shrub thickets, the dominant woody community on most barrier islands along the coastline of the southeastern USA. Observations suggest that M. cerifera, a salt-intolerant species, is increasing in cover throughout the Virginia barrier islands, yet rising sea level in response to climate change is increasing erosion and reducing island area. Our objective was to explain this apparent paradox using patternprocess relationships across a range of scales with a focus on ocean currents and sediment transport interacting with island characteristics at intermediate scales. Multi-decadal comparisons across scales showed a complex pattern. At the scale of the entire Virginia barrier complex, modest decreases in upland area were accompanied by large increases in shrub area. Responses were more variable for individual islands, reflecting inter-island variations in erosion and accretion due to differences in sediment transport via ocean currents. Several islands underwent dramatic shrub expansion. Only for within-island responses were there similarities in the pattern of change, with a lag-phase after initial shrub colonization followed by development of linear, closed canopy thickets. Understanding the fine-scale processes of shrub seedling establishment and thicket development, in conjunction with the influence of ocean currents and sediment transport, provides a framework for interpreting island accretion and erosion patterns and subsequent effects on shrub thicket expansion or contraction across scales of time and space.
25622903|To better understand how management and restoration practices influence the response of terrestrial ecosystems to large-scale distrubances, it is critical to study above- and belowground effects. In this study, we examined the immediate effect of a major hurricane on aboveground forest structure, arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) and belowground carbon pools in experimentally thinned plots in a tropical forest. The hurricane occurred five years after a thinning treatment, when thinned plots had similar aboveground carbon stocks but different forest structure compared to control plots. Thinned plots had more large diameter (> 10 cm) trees compared to the control plots, which were characterized by a higher density of small diameter (<10 cm) trees. Despite pre-hurricane differences in forest structure, there were no significant differences between treatments in changes of canopy openness or number of affected trees following the hurricane. Thinned plots had larger belowground carbon pools than the controls plots before the hurricane, and these differences remained after the hurricane despite rapid decomposition of organic matter rich in nitrogen. There were no pre-hurricane differences in AM fungal spores or total AM root colonization. The hurricane reduced AM sporulation by nearly 50% in both treatments, yet we observed a significant increase in AM root colonization after the hurricane with greater AM colonization in the thinned plots. Hurricanes have well-known visible aboveground effects, but here we showed that less visible belowground effects are influenced by forest management and may play an important role in forest recovery.
40603651|The exchange of elements between plants and the soil in which they are growing creates reciprocal control of their element composition. Within plants, the growth rate hypothesis from ecological stoichiometry implies a strong coupling between C, N, and P. No similar theory exists for predicting relationships between elements in the soil or relationships between plants and the soil. We used a data set of element concentrations in needles and humus of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) and Norway spruce (Picea abies) forests in Sweden to investigate the extent to which relationships between elements (C, N, P, S, K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, Al) can be observed within and between plants and soils. We found element composition to be more strongly controlled in needles than in humus. Elements that are covalently bound were also more strongly controlled, with no apparent differences between macro-and micronutrients. With the exception of N/C, there were surprisingly few relationships between elements in needles and humus. We found no major differences between the two tree species studied, but investigations of additional forest types are needed for firm conclusions. More control over element composition was exercised with respect to  than C, particularly in needles, so it might be advantageous to express nutrient concentrations relative to  rather than on a dry weight or carbon basis. Variations in many ecosystem variables appeared to lack ecological significance and thus an important task is to identify the meaningful predictors.
25470367|Geomorphology, vegetation and tidal fluxes are usually identified as the factors introducing variation in the flushing of particulate organic matter (POM) from tidal marshes to adjacent waters. Such variables may, however, be insufficient to explain export characteristics in marshes inhabited by ecosystem engineers that can alter the quantity and quality of POM on the marsh surface that is subject to tidal flushing. In this study we evaluated the balance between transfer of buried sedimentary organic carbon (C) to the marsh surface due to crab excavation (measured from the mounds of sediment excavated from burrows) and outputs of C from the surface due to sediment deposition within crab burrows (estimated from sediment deposited within PVC burrow mimics), in a Southwestern Atlantic salt marsh supporting dense (approximately 70 ind m) populations of the crab Chasmagnathus granulatus. C excavation by crabs was much greater than deposition of C within crab burrow mimics. Per area unit estimates of the balance between these two processes indicated that crabs excavated 5.98 g m d and 4.80 mg m d of total and readily (10 d) labile C, respectively. However, sediments excavated by crabs showed a significantly lower content of both total and readily-labile C than sediment collected in burrow mimics. This indicates that ecosystem engineering by burrowing crabs causes a net decrease in the concentration of C in the superficial sediment layers and, thus, an overall decrease in the amount of C that can be washed out of the marsh by tidal action. Incorporating the in situ activities of ecosystem engineers in models of marsh export should enhance understanding of the function of marshes in estuarine ecosystems.
3658623| Over the past several decades, the conversion of native forest to agricultural land uses has accelerated across the Amazon Basin. Despite a growing body of research on nutrient dynamics in Amazonian primary forest and forest-derived land uses, the effects of widespread land-use change on nutrient contents and cycles in soil and vegetation are not well understood. We reviewed over 100 studies conducted in Amaznia over the past 40 years on nutrient dynamics in natural forests and forest-derived land uses (pasture, shifting cultivation, and tree plantations). Our objectives were to compare soil data from land uses across Amaznia and identify any gaps in our present knowledge that might offer direction for future research. Specifically, by analyzing data we tested the following five widely cited hypotheses concerning the effects of land-use change on soil properties compiled from 39 studies in multifactorial ANOVA models; (a) soil pH, effective cation exchange capacity (ECEC), and exchangeable calcium (Ca) concentrations rise and remain elevated following the slash-and-burn conversion of forest to pasture or crop fields; (b) soil contents of total carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and inorganic readily extractable (that is, Bray, Mehlich I, or resin) phosphorus ( P
40296411|Habitat transformations and climate change are among the most important drivers of biodiversity loss. Understanding the factors responsible for the unequal distribution of species richness is a major challenge in ecology. Using data from the North American Breeding Bird Survey to measure species richness and a change metric extracted from the MODerate resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), we examined the influence of energy variability on the geographic distribution of avian richness across the conterminous U. S. and in the different ecoregions, while controlling for energy availability. The analysis compared three groups of birds: all species, Neotropical migrants, and permanent residents. We found that interannual variability in available energy explained more than half of the observed variation in bird richness in some ecoregions. In particular, energy variability is an important factor in explaining the patterns of overall bird richness and of permanent residents, in addition to energy availability. Our results showed a decrease in species richness with increasing energy variability and decreasing energy availability, suggesting that more species are found in more stable and more productive environments. However, not all ecoregions followed this pattern. The exceptions might reflect other biological factors and environmental conditions. With more ecoclimatic variability predicted for the future, this study provides insight into how energy variability influences the geographical patterns of species richness.
40603423|Riparian ecosystems are recognized as sinks for inorganic nitrogen (N). Denitrification, a heterotrophic microbial process, often accounts for a significant fraction of the N removed. Characteristics of both riparian soils and hydrologie vectors may constrain the locations where denitrification can occur within riparian ecosystems by influencing the distribution of substrates, water, and suitable redox conditions. We employed spatially explicit methods to quantify heterogeneity of soil characteristics and potential rate of denitrification in semi-arid riparian ecosystems. These results allow us to evaluate the relative contributions of hydro -logic vectors (water courses that convey materials) and soil resources (materials required by biota) to spatial heterogeneity of denitrification. During dry and monsoon seasons we contrasted a mesic site, characterized by shallow groundwater and annual inundation by floods, with a xeric site that is inundated less often and has a deeper water table.Potential denitrification was detected throughout the mesic floodplain and the average rate of denitrification was greater at the mesic site than at the xeric site, indicating the influence of water availability on denitrification. At the xeric reach, sharp declines in pools of soil resources and rate of denitrification occurred away from the stream, demonstrating the importance of the stream in determining spatial patterns. Using geographically weighted regression analysis, we determined that soil organic matter and soil nitrate were significant predictors of denitrification at the xeric site, but that factors influencing denitrification varied spatially. Spatial heterogeneity of carbon (C) and N substrates in soils likely influenced spatial patterns of denitrification, but distribution of C and N substrates was ultimately organized by hydrologie vectors. Droughts will increase the abundance of reaches with hydrogeomorphic templates similar to the xeric reach studied here. Consequences of such a transition may include a reduced rate of denitrification and patchy distribution of denitrification in floodplain soils, which will decrease the contribution of riparian ecosystems to N removal.
41507776|Management of ecological disturbances requires an understanding of the time scale and dynamics of community responses to disturbance events. To characterize long-term seagrass bed responses to nutrient enrichment, we established six study sites in Florida Bay, USA. In 24 plots (0.25 m) at each site, we regularly added nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in a factorial design for 7 years. Five of the six sites exhibited strong P limitation. Over the first 2 years, P enrichment increased Thalassia testudinum cover in the three most P-limited sites. After 3 years, Halodule wrightii began to colonize many of the P-addition plots, but the degree of colonization was variable among sites, possibly due to differences in the supply of viable propagules. Thalassia increased its allocation to aboveground tissue in response to P enrichment; Halodule increased in total biomass but did not appear to change its aboveground: belowground tissue allocation. Nutrient enrichment did not cause macroalgal or epiphytic overgrowth of the seagrass. Nitrogen retention in the study plots was variable but relatively low, whereas phosphorus retention was very high, often exceeding 100% of the P added as fertilizer over the course of our experiments. Phosphorus retentions exceeding 100% may have been facilitated by increases in Thalassia aboveground biomass, which promoted the settlement of suspended particulate matter containing phosphorus. Our study demonstrated that lowintensity press disturbance events such as phosphorus enrichment can initiate a slow, ramped successional process that may alter community structure over many years.
3658905| Spatial and temporal variations in net primary production (NPP) are of great importance to ecological studies, natural resource management, and terrestrial carbon sink estimates. However, most of the existing estimates of interannual variation in NPP at regional and global scales were made at coarse resolutions with climate-driven process models. In this study, we quantified global NPP variation at an 8 km and 10-day resolution from 1981 to 2000 based on satellite observations. The high resolution was achieved using the GLObal Production Efficiency Model (GLO-PEM), which was driven with variables derived almost entirely from satellite remote sensing. The results show that there was an increasing trend toward enhanced terrestrial NPP that was superimposed on high seasonal and interannual variations associated with climate variability and that the increase was occurring in both northern and tropical latitudes. NPP generally decreased in El Nio season and increased in La Nia seasons, but the magnitude and spatial pattern of the response varied widely between individual events. Our estimates also indicate that the increases in NPP during the period were caused mainly by increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide and precipitation. The enhancement of NPP by warming was limited to northern high latitudes (above 50N); in other regions, the interannual variations in NPP were correlated negatively with temperature and positively with precipitation. 
43677500|Large herbivores and termites are important functional groups in African savannahs. Both groups affect small mammals, which are also important determinants for savannah structure and function. Because vegetation on Macrotermes mounds are preferentially grazed by large herbivores, and mounds represent resource-rich distinct habitat patches for small mammals in relatively resourcepoor savannahs, termite mounds are ideal sites for studies of how grazing by large mammals and productivity affect communities of small mammals. We conducted an experiment in Lake Mburo National Park, Uganda, with four treatments: large vegetated Macrotermes mounds (with and without large herbivores) and adjacent savannah areas (with and without large herbivores). We replicated the treatment blocks nine times and trapped small mammals regularly over a period of almost 2 years. Small mammal species assemblages differed considerably between mounds and savannah areas. Grazing had a substantial effect on small mammal species assemblages in the resource-poor savannah, but not in the relatively resource-rich termitaria. Small mammal species abundance, biomass, and richness were higher on termite mounds than adjacent savannah areas. Excluding large herbivores caused a major increase in species abundance, biomass, and richness both on savannah and termitaria. Herbaceous plant species evenness was an important determinant of the small mammal community. Small mammal biomass increased with high plant dominance, indicating that a few dominant plant species are important for biomass production of small mammals. Small mammal diversity was not related to any of the treatments, but increased with plant species evenness as well as richness. Fencing increased species dominance in the small mammal community on both savannah and termitaria, probably because competitive patterns shift from inter-guild (that is, between large and small mammals) to intra-guild (that is, between small mammals) when large mammals are excluded. The study highlights the complex interactions among large herbivores, termites, herbaceous plants, and small mammals in African savannahs. When studying the structure and function of small mammal communities it is therefore important to consider several coexisting functional groups.
3658907|We compared phosphorus (P) dynamics and plant productivity in two montane tropical rain forests (Mount Kinabalu, Borneo) that derived from similar parent materials (largely sedimentary rocks) and had similar climates but differed in terms of soil age. The younger site originated from Quaternary colluvial deposits, whereas the older site had Tertiary-age material. The older site had a distinctive spodic horizon, reduced levels of labile inorganic soil P, higher concentrations of recalcitrant organic soil P, and lower rates of net soil N mineralization. P fertilization led to soil nitrogen (N) immobilization in the P-deficient soil, indicating that soil N mineralization was limited by P at the P-deficient older site. Mean foliar nutrient concentration (on both a weight and an area basis) was similar at the two sites for all elements except P, which was lower at the older site. Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) was lower at the older site than at the younger one; this difference could be explained by the reduced availability of P and N (as down-regulated by P) at the older site. The relatively ample allocation of P and N to leaves, despite the reduced availability at the P-deficient old site, was attributable to its high resorption efficiency. High resorption resulted in lower concentrations of elements in leaf litter-that is, less decomposable low-quality litter. On the other hand, the concentration of leaf litter lignin was considerably lower at the older site; this appeared to be a de facto adaptive mechanism to avoid retarding litter decomposition.
3658726|Reducing uncertainty in predictions of regional-scale models depends on meaningful contrasts with field measurements. This paper introduces a two-stage process that works from the premise that an appropriate goal for regional models is to produce reasonable behavior over dominant environmental gradients. We demonstrate two techniques for contrasting models with data, one based on the shape of modeled relationships (functional contrasts) and the other based on an examination of the residuals (residual contrasts) between the model and an empirically derived surface fit to field data. Functional contrasts evaluated the differences between the response of simulated net primary production (NPP) to climate variables and the response observed in field measurements of NPP. Residual contrasts compared deviations of NPP from the empirical surface to identify groupings (for example, vegetation classes, geographic regions) with model deviations different from those of the field data. In all model-data contrasts, we assigned sample weights to field measurements to ensure unbiased representation of the region, and we included both constructive comparisons and formal statistical tests. In general, we learned more from constructive methods designed to reveal structure or pattern in discrepancy than we did from statistical tests designed to falsify models. Although our constructive methods were more subjective and less concise, they succeeded in revealing gaps in our understanding of regional-scale processes that can guide future efforts to reduce scientific uncertainty. This was best illustrated by NPP predictions from the Biome-BGC model, which showed a stronger response to precipitation than apparently operates in the field. In another case, differences revealed in savanna and dry woodlands had insufficient field-data support, suggesting a need for future field studies to improve understanding in this, and other, poorly studied ecosystems.
40603432|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) plays several important roles in forest ecosystem development, undergoing chemical, physical and/or biological reactions that affect ecosystem nutrient retention. Very few studies have focused on gross rates of DOM production, and we know of no study that has directly measured DOM production from root litter. Our objectives were to quantify major sources of total potentially water-soluble organic matter (DOM tps ) production, with an emphasis on production from root litter, to quantify and compare total potentially soluble organic C, N, and P (DOC tps , DON tps , and DOP tps ) production, and to quantify changes in their production during forest primary succession and ecosystem development at the Mt. Shasta Mudflows ecosystem chronosequence. To do so, we exhaustively extracted freshly senesced root and leaf and other aboveground litter for DOC tps , DON tps , and DOP tps by vegetation category, and we calculated DOM tps production (g m y) at the ecosystem level using data for annual production of fine root and aboveground litter. DOM production from throughfall was calculated by measuring throughfall volume and concentration over 2 years. Results showed that DOM tps production from root litter was a very important source of D0M t p s in the Mount Shasta mudflow ecosystems, in some cases comparable to production from leaf litter for DON tps and larger than production from leaf litter for DOP tps . Total DOC tps and DON tps production from all sources increased early in succession from the 77-to the 255-year-old ecosystem. However, total DOP tps production across the ecosystem chronosequence showed a unique pattern. Generally, the relative importance of root litter for total fine detrital DOC tps and DON tps production increased significantly during ecosystem development. Furthermore, DOC tps and DON tps production were predominantly driven by changes in biomass production during ecosystem development, whereas changes in litter solubility due to changes in species composition had a smaller effect. We suggest that DOM tps production from root litter may be an important source of organic matter for the accumulation of SOM during forest ecosystem development.
25470319|Patches of submerged vegetation can be important sites of primary production and habitat for organisms in many aquatic ecosystems. In the tidal freshwater Hudson River they make up about 6% of the river bottom area. Direct sampling of water masses passing through patches of vegetation and week-long continuous monitoring of water characteristics were used to determine plant effects on dissolved oxygen and suspended sediments. Vegetated areas could have dissolved oxygen concentrations substantially higher than in the main channel and suspended sediments and turbidity were frequently higher in vegetated areas. Patches of Vallisneria americana had variable capacity to maintain super-saturated oxygen concentrations; patch size accounted for some of the variability whereas larger-scale differences in main-channel influent water also contributed. Differences in turbidity among sites were harder to account for; width of plant beds and abundance of neighboring vegetated areas contributed weakly to predictions of local turbidity. Functional heterogeneity within ecosystems is common and attempts to explain variability may require understanding different controlling factors for different functions and appreciating that factors operate at multiple scales.
40296269|Invasive alien grasses can substantially alter fuel loads and fire regimes which could have significant consequences for fire-mediated nutrient losses. The effects of the alien grass Andropogon gayanus Kunth. (Gamba grass) on fire-mediated nutrient losses was evaluated in Australia's tropical savannas. Losses of macronutrients during fire were determined by comparing the nutrient pools contained in the fine fuel before fire and in the ash after fire. Pre-fire grass nutrient pools were significantly higher in A. gayanus plots than in native grass plots for all nutrients measured (N, P, K, S, Ca, and Mg). Nutrient losses were substantially higher in A. gayanus plots, with 113% higher losses for N, 80% for P, 56% for K, 63 for S, 355% for Ca, and 345% for Mg. However, only losses of N and Mg varied significantly between grass types. A simplified savanna ecosystem nutrient budget estimated that A. gayanus fires led to the net N loss of 20 kg ha y. This is a conservative estimate because total fuel loads were relatively low (7.85 t ha ) for A. gayanus invaded plots leading to a relatively moderate intensity fire (6,408 kW m" 1 ). Higher A. gayanus fuel loads and fire intensities could potentially lead to losses of up to 61.5 kg N ha from the grass fuel. Over the long term, this is likely to lead to depletion of soil nutrients, particularly N, in the already low-fertility tropical savanna soils.
25470382|Soil organic carbon (SOC) represents a significant pool of carbon within the biosphere. Climatic shifts in temperature and precipitation have a major influence on the decomposition and amount of SOC stored within an ecosystem. We have linked net primary production algorithms, which include the impact of enhanced atmospheric CO on plant growth, to the Soil Organic Carbon Resources And Transformations in EcoSystems (SOCRATES) model to develop a SOC map for the North Central Region of the United States between the years 1850 and 2100 in response to agricultural activity and climate conditions generated by the CSIRO Mk2 Global Circulation Model (GCM) and based on the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) IS92a emission scenario. We estimate that the current day (1990) stocks of SOC in the top 10 cm of the North Central Region to be 4692 Mt, and 8090 Mt in the top 20 cm of soil. This is 19% lower than the pre-settlement steady state value predicted by the SOCRATES model. By the year 2100, with temperature and precipitation increasing across the North Central Region by an average of 3.9C and 8.1 cm, respectively, SOCRATES predicts SOC stores of the North Central Region to decline by 11.5 and 2% (in relation to 1990 values) for conventional and conservation tillage scenarios, respectively.
41505890|Human activity is drastically altering global nitrogen (N) availability. The extent to which ecosystems absorb additional Nand with it, additional COdepends on whether net primary production (NPP) is N-limited, so it is important to understand conditions under which N can limit NPP. Here I use a general dynamical model to show that N limitation at steady-statesuch as in old-growth forestsdepends on the balance of biotically controllable versus uncontrollable N inputs and losses. Steady-state N limitation is only possible when uncontrollable inputs (for example, atmospheric deposition) exceed controllable losses (for example, leaching of plant-available soil N), which is the same as when uncontrollable losses (for example, leaching of plant-unavailable soil N) exceed controllable inputs (biological N fixation). These basic results are robust to many model details, such as the number of plant-unavailable soil N pools and the number and type of N fixers. Empirical data from old-growth tropical (Hawai'i) and temperate (Oregon, Washington, Chile) forests support the model insights. Practically, this means that any N fixersymbiotic or notcould overcome ecosystem N limitation, so understanding N limitation requires understanding controls on all N fixers. Further, comparing losses of plant-available N to abiotic inputs could offer a rapid diagnosis of whether ecosystems can be N-limited, although the applicability of this result is constrained to ecosystems with a steady-state N cycle such as old-growth forests largely devoid of disturbance.
41507790|Recent meta-analyses of experimental studies simulating increased anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition in forests reveal greater soil carbon (C) storage under elevated levels of atmospheric N deposition. However, these effects have not yet been included in ecosystem-scale models of soil C and N cycling and it is unclear whether incresed soil C storage results from slower decomposition rates or a reduced extent of decomposition (for example, an increase in the amount of litter entering slowly decaying humus pools). To test these alternatives, we conducted a meta-analysis of litter decomposition data. We then used the results from our meta-analysis to model and N cycling in four sugar maple forests in Michigan using an ecosystem process model (TRACE). We compared model results testing our alternative hypotheses to field data on soil storage from a 17-year N deposition experiment. Using data from published litter decomposition studies in forests, we determined that, on average, exogenous N inputs decreased lignin decomposition rates by 30% and increased cellulose decomposition by 9%. In the same set of litter decomposition studies increased exogenous N availability increased the amount of litter entering slowly decaying humus pools in a manner significantly related to the lignocellulose index of decaying litter. Incorporating changes to decomposition rates in TRACE did not accurately reproduce greater soil C storage observed in our field study with experimentally elevated N deposition. However, when changes in the extent of decomposition were incorporated in TRACE, the model produced increased soil C storage by increasing the amount of litter entering the humus pool and accurately represented storage in plant and soil pools under experimental N deposition. Our modeling results and meta-analysis indicate that the extent of litter decay as humus is formed, rather than slower rates of litter decay, is likely responsible for the accumulation of organic matter, and hence soil storage, under experimental N deposition. This effect should be incorporated in regional to global-scale models simulating the C balance of forest ecosystems in regions receiving elevated N deposition.
25470409|The colonial urochordate Botryllus schlosseri is a sedentary species of Mediterranean origin that became cosmopolitan, probably because of postglacial-period dispersal and human-mediated invasions of colonies attached to ship hulls. Here we studied microsatellite allele diversity of Atlantic coast populations from an area ranging from European regions south of the last glacial front to regions that had been permanently ice-covered. Gene diversity levels varied dramatically among populations residing in areas subject to different glacial conditions. Five populations from the Iberian Peninsula, in an area south of the last glacial front, as well as two populations from presumed refugia in Brittany, expressed high gene diversity values (expected heterozygosity [He]: 0.76-0.80; average number of alleles per locus [A]: 7.25-8.75). Two populations inhabiting areas that experienced permafrost conditions (Helgoland Island, Germany, and Plymouth, England) had intermediate values (He: 0.40-0.42; A: 3.0-4.0), whereas the Auchenmalg, Scotland, population, from an area previously covered by ice, showed a remarkably low value (He: 0.17; A: 1.75). Therefore, most European populations of B. schlosseri mirrored the movement of the ice front in the last ice age. A second population from the area that was covered by permanent ice (Lossiemouth, Scotland), however, had a high He of 0.61 and an intermediate A of 3.67. Results were compared with recent invasions (populations less than 200 years old) in the United States and New Zealand that had a higher degree of genetic variation than the European native populations established thousands of years ago. Given the overall dearth of studies on this subject, we suggest that in contemporary established Botryllus populations, gene diversity is affected by ecological factors, some of which can be traced directly to the last ice age. Other parameters of gene diversity are influenced by selection pressure, which might be more intense in northern regions.
3658603|The deposition of anthropogenically fixed nitrogen (N) from the atmosphere onto land and plant surfaces has strong influences on terrestrial ecosystem processes. Although recent research has expanded our understanding of how N deposition affects ecosystems directly, less attention has been directed toward the investigation of how N deposition may affect ecosystems indirectly by modifying interactions among organisms. Empirical evidence suggests that there are several mechanisms by which N deposition may affect interactions between plants and insect herbivores. The most likely mechanisms are deposition-induced shifts in the quality and availability of host plant tissues. We discuss the effects of N deposition on host plant chemistry, production, and phenology, and we review the evidence for the effects of N deposition on insect herbivores at the individual, population, and community levels. In general, N deposition has positive effects on individual insect performance, probably due to deposition-induced improvements in host plant chemistry. These improvements include increased N and decreased carbon-based defensive compound concentrations. The evidence to date suggests that N deposition may also have a positive effect on insect populations. These effects may have considerable ecological, as well as economic consequences if the rates of herbivory on economically important timber species continue to increase. Deposition-induced changes in plant-herbivore relationships may affect community and ecosystem processes. However, we predict that the larger-scale consequences of interactions between N deposition and herbivory will vary based on site-specific factors. In addition, interactions between N deposition and other global-scale changes may lead to nonadditive effects on patterns of herbivory.
40792954|River floodplains are composed of a shifting mosaic of aquatic and terrestrial habitats. Each habitat type exhibits distinct environmental and ecological properties. Temperature is a key property driving ecological processes and controlling the composition and distribution of biota. However, given the size and complexity of floodplains, ground surveys based on point measurements are spatially limited. In this study, we applied thermal infrared (IR) imagery to quantify surface temperature patterns at 12-15 min intervals over 24 h cycles in two nearnatural Alpine river floodplains (Roseg, Tagliamento). Furthermore, vertical temperature distribution was measured at 3-5 min intervals in unsaturated gravel sediment deposits (at 1 cm distances; 0-29 cm depth). Each habitat type exhibited a distinct thermal signature creating a complex thermal mosaic. The diel temperature pulse and maximum daily temperature were the main thermal components that differentiated habitat types. In both floodplains, exposed gravel sediments exhibited the highest diel pulse (up to 23C), whereas in aquatic habitats the pulse was as low as 11C (main channel in the Roseg floodplain). In the unsaturated gravel sediment deposits, the maximum diel kinetic temperature pulse ranged from 40.4C (sediment surface) to 2.7C (29 cm sediment depth). Vertically, the spatiotemporal variation of temperature was about as high as horizontally across the entire floodplain surface. This study emphasized that remotely sensed thermal IR imagery provides a powerful non-invasive method to quantitatively assess thermal heterogeneity of complex aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems at a resolution required to understand ecosystem processes and the distribution of biota.
40603437|To understand how carbon (C) pools in boreal ecosystems may change with warming, we measured above and belowground C pools and C increment along a soil temperature gradient across 16 mature upland black spruce (Picea mariana Mill. [B.S.P]) forests in interior Alaska. Total spruce C stocks (stand and root C) increased from 1.3 to 8.5 kg C m with increasing soil summed degreedays (SDD > 0C at 10 cm) across sites, whereas soil C stocks decreased from 11.9 to 6.3 kg C m with increasing SDD. Spruce C and organic soil C, which combined represent maximum C accrual since the last fire, increased with soil heat sums until 600 SDD, and then plateaued with increasing SDD across sites (R = 0.61, P = 0.002; second-order polynomial regression). The sum of soil and total spruce C (total ecosystem C, TEC) reached its maximum in the middle-range of soil temperatures measured (approximately 600 SDD), and was lower in the coolest (139 SDD) and the warmest (914 SDD) forests. The opposing trends between above-and belowground pools resulted in C shifting from the soil to spruce biomass with warmer soil temperatures. A shift in C distribution from below-to aboveground pools, as temperature increases, has implications for the vulnerability of C lost in boreal forest wildfires. The strongly negative relationship between surface mineral soil C stocks and increasing temperatures warrants further research into the potential loss of deep mineral soil C stocks with continued warming, especially in forests presently underlain with permafrost.
3658881|Conventional studies of nitrogen (N) cycling in forest ecosystems have focused on inorganic N uptake as the primary source of N for plant metabolism. More recently, however, alternative sources of N for plant nutrition, such as free amino acids, have gained attention, particularly in nutrient-limited systems. Using a multiple stable isotope
25622872|Forest microclimate plays an integral role in ecosystem processes, yet a predictive understanding of its spatial and temporal variability in heterogeneous landscapes is largely lacking. In this study, we used regression kriging (RK) to analyze the degree to which physiographic versus ecological variables influence spatio-temporal variation in understory microclimate conditions. We monitored understory temperature in 200 forest plots within a 274 km environmentally heterogeneous region in northern California (0.55 obs/km). For each plot location, we measured four physiographic influences (elevation, coastal proximity, potential solar radiation, topographic wetness index) and three ecological drivers (forest patch size, proximity to forest edge, tree abundance). Temperature observations were aggregated to three time scales (hourly, daily, and monthly) to examine temporal variability in microclimate dynamics and its effect on spatial prediction. The obtained prediction models included both physiographic and vegetative effects, although the relative importance of individual effects varied greatly between the different models. Across time scales, elevation and coastal proximity had the most consistent physiographic effects on temperature, followed by the vegetative effects of forest patch size and distance to forest edge. RK captured significantly more landscape-scale variability in understory temperature than a regression-only approach with considerably better model performance at hourly and daily time scales than at a monthly scale. Using varied sampling density scenarios our results also suggest that predictive accuracy drops considerably at densities less than 0.34 obs/km. This research illustrates how geospatial and statistical modeling can be used to distinguish physiographic versus ecological effects on microclimate dynamics and elucidates the spatial and temporal scales that these processes operate.
27823699|Critical transition zones, such as aquaticterrestrial interfaces, have been recognized as important features in landscape ecology. Yet changes in the community structure of soil and sediment biota across aquaticterrestrial boundaries remain relatively unstudied. We investigated the community structure of the dominant fauna, namely nematodes, rotifers and tardigrades, across lake sedimentsoil transects in three basins in a species-poor, polar desert ecosystem (McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica). We also examined substrate (that is, soil and sediment) properties, including moisture, salinity, carbon, nitrogen and phosphate concentration, across these transects. Differences in faunal community structure and biochemical properties were typically explained by hydrologic basin and the sedimentsoil gradient, but not by transects within each basin. Bonney Basin contained the least organic carbon, chlorophyll a, nematodes and taxa, whereas there was little difference in many of these measures between Fryxell and Hoare Basins. Nematode (Scottnema lindsayae and Plectus sp.) and rotifer abundance varied along sedimentsoil transects. Scottnema lindsayae, the most abundant and widely distributed soil animal in this ecosystem, increased in abundance from sediments to soils, whereas Plectus sp. and rotifer abundance, and taxa richness (that is, nematodes, rotifers and/or tardigrades), decreased; Eudorylaimus sp. and tardigrade abundance did not differ significantly along the transects. Previous studies of soil biodiversity and faunal abundance in this ecosystem have revealed a positive association between these measures and biogeochemistry, if this holds true for lake sediments, our findings suggest sediments in Lake Bonney experience lower rates of nutrient cycling than either Lakes Fryxell or Hoare. Despite differences in faunal abundances along the sedimentsoil transects, taxa occurrence was surprisingly similar in soil and sediment, only S. lindsayae was restricted to soil or the lake shore. In contrast, in other ecosystems, soil community composition differs greatly from lake sediments, suggesting that the observed similarity in species occurrence in both soils and sediments may be unique to Antarctica. This finding might result from the extreme low diversity of this ecosystem, presumably limiting competition among fauna, and thus promoting broad ecological niches. Alternatively, environmental conditions in Antarctica may select for species with broad ecological niches.
40296295|Stream nitrogen (N) export and nitrate (NO3) concentration were measured at 14 forested watersheds (GEOMON network) in the Czech Republic between 1994 and 2005. In the last several decades, emissions of sulfur (S) and N compounds have decreased throughout much of Europe. In the Czech Republic, atmospheric deposition of S has decreased substantially since the beginning of 1990s, whereas N deposition remains largely unchanged at most sites. The mean dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) streamwater export ranged from 0.2 to 12.2 kg ha y at the GEOMON sites. Despite decades of elevated N deposition, 44-98% of DIN inputs to these watersheds were retained or denitrified, and many watersheds showed seasonal variation in nitrate concentrations. Dissolved organic N export was quantified in 1 year only and ranged from 0.05 to 3.5 kg ha y. Spatial variability in DIN export among watersheds was best explained by spatial variability in average acidic deposition, particularly S deposition (R = 0.81, P < 0.001); DIN input and forest floor carbonmitrogen (C/N) also provided significant explanatory power. DIN export was strongly influenced by the forest floor C/N ratio and depth of the forest floor soils (R = 0.72, P < 0.001). The only variable that predicted variations in forest floor C/N (R = 0.32, P < 0.05) among watersheds was S deposition. Forest floor depth was also related to deposition variables, with S deposition providing the most explanatory power (R = 0.50, P < 0.01). Variation in forest floor depth was also associated with climatic factors (precipitation and temperature). Temporal variability in DIN export was primarily associated with changes in acidic deposition over time; S deposition explained 41% of variability in DIN exports among all watersheds and years. Extensive acidification of forested watersheds was associated with the extraordinarily high S inputs to much of the Czech Republic during earlier decades. We hypothesize that recovery from acidification has led to improved tree health as well as enhanced microbial activity in the forest floor. As these watersheds move into a new regime with dramatically lower sulfur inputs, we expect continued declines in nitrate output.
40603649|Arctic treeline positions are of fundamental importance to the function of high latitude landscapes, as regulators of surface energy exchange and carbon cycling. Most studies aimed at explaining current and predicting future treeline positions have examined growth trends in mature treeline trees, but treeline advance requires seed production, germination, seedling establishment, and recruitment of new trees beyond the treeline and these processes may not be well correlated with growth of mature trees. Tussock tundra is a widespread, microtopographically complex vegetation type, covering vast areas of northern Alaska and Siberia. We examined a site where the white spruce (Picea glauca) treeline has recently advanced into tussock tundra and asked if white spruce seedlings (~36-cm tall) occurred in tussocks, intertussocks, and frost boils disproportionate to the abundance of these habitats in the treeline ecotone. We found that seedlings disproportionately occurred in tussocks and frost boils. Seedlings found in tussocks and frost boils also showed greater branch growth than those in inter-tussocks. Tussocks and frost boils had higher soil temperatures than inter-tussocks. Tussocks had higher N, P, and K availability, whereas frost boils had greater secondary and micronutrient availability. The disproportionate occurrence of seedlings in tussocks and frost boils can likely be explained by the combination of warmer soils and greater nutrient availability. It is also possible that low competition for primary nutrients contributes to the success of seedlings in frost boils. Results of the study highlight the importance of biotic and abiotic facilitation as mediators of treeline advance in a changing Arctic.
25053826|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) plays an important role in transporting carbon and nitrogen from forest floor to mineral soils in temperate forest ecosystems. Thus, the retention of DOM via sorption or microbial assimilation is one of the critical steps for soil organic matter formation in mineral soils. The chemical properties of DOM are assumed to control these processes, yet we lack fundamental information that links litter quality, DOM chemistry, and DOM retention. Here, we studied whether differences in litter quality affect solution chemistry and whether changes in litter inputs affect DOM quality and removal in the field. The effects of litter quality on solution chemistry were evaluated using chemical fractionation methods for laboratory extracts and for soil water collected from a temperate coniferous forest where litter inputs had been altered. In a laboratory extraction, litter type (needle, wood, root) and the degree of decomposition strongly influenced solution chemistry. Root litter produced more than 10 times more water-extractable dissolved organic N (DON) than any other litter type, suggesting that root litter may be most responsible for DON production in this forest ecosystem. The chemical composition of the O-horizon leachate was similar under all field treatments (doubled needle, doubled wood, and normal litter inputs). O-horizon leachate most resembled laboratory extracts of well-decomposed litter (that is, a high proportion of hydrophobic acids), in spite of the significant amount of litter C added to the forest floor and a tendency toward higher mean DOM under doubled-Litter treatments. A lag in DOM production from added litter or microbial modification might have obscured chemical differences in DOM under the different treatments. Net DOM removal in this forest soil was strong; DOM concentration in the water deep in the mineral soil was always low regardless of concentrations in water that entered the mineral soil and of litter input manipulation. High net removal of DOM from O-horizon leachate, in spite of extremely low initial hydrophilic neutral content (labile DOM), coupled with the lack of influence by season or soil depth, suggests that DOM retention in the soil was mostly by abiotic sorption.
3658831|We examined the distribution of soil organic carbon (SOC) fractions and roots with depth to improve our understanding of belowground carbon dynamics in the shortgrass steppe of northern Colorado. Weaver and others (1935) found that the surface 15 cm of soil contained over 70% of the total roots found in a tallgrass prairie soil profile, while only accounting for 40% of the profile soil organic matter. We asked whether the relationship between roots and SOC that Weaver and others (1935) found in the tallgrass prairie was also found in the shortgrass steppe. Weaver and others (1935) suggested that the dissimilarity between belowground biomass and SOC with depth is the result of variability in decomposition rates. In an effort to determine whether patterns of SOC are the result of short-term plant input patterns or decomposition, we measured the
3658862|A theoretical framework and conceptual model for temporal stability of forest tree-species composition was developed based on a synthesis of existing studies. The model pertains primarily to time periods of several tree lifetimes (several hundred to a few thousand years) at the neighborhood and stand spatial scales (0.01-10 ha), although a few extensions to the landscape scale are also made. The cusp catastrophe was chosen to illustrate compositional dynamics at the stand level for jack pine, northern hardwood, and white pine forests in the Great Lakes Region of the United States and for tropical rainforests in the northern Amazon basin. The models feature a response surface (degree of dominance by late-successional species) that depends on two variables: type of neighborhood effects of the dominant tree species and severity of disturbances. Neighborhood effects are processes that affect the chance of a species replacing itself at the time of disturbance (they can be positive, neutral, or negative) and are of two types: overstory-undestory effects, such as the presence of advanced reproduction; and disturbance-activated effects, such as serotinous seed rain. Disturbance severity is the proportion of trees killed during a disturbance. Interactions between neighborhood effects and disturbance severity can lead to either punctuated stability (dramatic but infrequent change in composition, in those forests dominated by species with positive neighborhood effects) or succession (continuous change, in those forests dominated by species with neutral-negative neighborhood effects). We propose that neighborhood effects are a major organizing factor in forest dynamics that provide a link across spatial scales between individual trees and disturbance/patch dynamics at the stand and landscape scales.
23325689|Clearcutting is a common silvicultural practice in the deciduous forests of northern New England. Subsequent regrowth is usually rapid, largely due to regenerative capacities of successional plants, particularly pin cherry (Prunus pensylvanica L.). The forest cover of an experimental watershed (W2) in Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest, NH was clearcut and then treated with herbicides for 3 years to prevent regrowth. This experimental treatment delayed plant growth and caused extensive nutrient losses from the watershed-ecosystem, thereby diminishing factors normally promoting revegetation. This article addresses the question of whether, or to what degree, resilience, defined here as the trajectory of recovery back to a prior state following a perturbation, was reduced by this treatment. Performance metrics for resilience were aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and biomass accumulation. Data collected over seven intervals for the first 31 years of regrowth show that a primary component of resiliencepin cherry densitywas reduced, and that ANPP and biomass accumulation were initially below normal compared with other clear-cut sites. After approximately a decade of regrowth, however, trajectories for both ANPP and biomass fell within the lower margins of variability measured in other regional examples.
23325681|Northern peatlands are recognized as globally important stores of terrestrial carbon (C), yet we have limited understanding of how global changes, including land use, affect C cycling processes in these ecosystems. Making use of a long-term (>50 year old) peatland land management experiment in the UK, we investigated, using a 13 CO 2 pulse chase approach, how managed burning and grazing influenced the short-term uptake and cycling of C through the plantsoil system. We found that burning affected the composition and growth stage of the plant community, by substantially reducing the abundance of mature ericoid dwarf-shrubs. Burning also affected the structure of the soil microbial community, measured using phospholipid fatty acid analysis, by reducing fungal biomass. There was no difference in net ecosystem exchange of CO 2 , but burning was associated with an increase in photosynthetic uptake of 13 CO 2 and increased transfer of 13 C to the soil microbial community relative to unburned areas. In contrast, grazing had no detectable effects on any measured C cycling process. Our study provides new insight into how changes in vegetation and soil microbial communities arising from managed burning affect peatland C cycling processes, by enhancing the uptake of photosynthetic C and the transfer of C belowground, whilst maintaining net ecosystem exchange of CO 2 at pre-burn levels.
41505912|Climate warming in The Arctic may lead to a shift from graminoid to shrub dominance, which may, in turn, alter the structure and function of the ecosystem through shrub influences on the abiotic and/or biotic controls over biogeochemical cycles of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N). In Arctic tundra, near Toolik Lake, Alaska, we quantified net N-mineralization rates under ambient and manipulated snow treatments at three different plant communities that varied in abundance of deciduous shrubs. Our objective was twofold: (1) to test whether the amount of snow that can accumulate around Arctic deciduous shrubs maintains winter soil temperatures high enough to stimulate microbial activity and increase soil N levels (effect of soil microclimate) and (2) to compare the relative effects of snow versus shrubs on N availability via effects on the main drivers of N-mineralization: SOM quality versus microclimate. Winter snow addition had a positive effect on summer, but not winter, N-mineralization rates. Soil organic matter quality had a nine times larger effect on N-mineralization than did soil microclimate in the summer season and only SOM quality had a detectable effect on N-mineralization in the winter. Here we conclude that on a short time scale, shrub interactions with snow may play a role in increasing plant available N, primarily through effects on the summer soil microenvironment. In addition, differences in SOM quality can drive larger differences in net N-mineralization than changes in soil microclimate of the magnitude of what we saw across our three sites.
3658734|We assessed the determinants and consequences of the expansion of Juniperus virginiana L. (red cedar) populations into central US grasslands using historical aerial photos and field measurements of forest extent, tree growth, fire-induced mortality, and responses in herbaceous species diversity and productivity. Photos from northeast Kansas dating back to 1956 indicate that native tallgrass prairie can be converted to closed-canopy red cedar forest in as little as 40 years (a 2.3% increase in forest cover per year). Mean tree density in 21 forested sites ranged from 130 to 3500 trees/ha, with most sites at more than 800 trees/ha. In younger stands, maximum growth rates of individual red cedar trees exceeded 20 cm/y in height. Land management practices were critical to the establishment and growth of red cedar forest. Grazing reduced the fuel loads by more than 30% in tallgrass prairie. Based on measurements of mortality for more than 1800 red cedar trees, fire-induced mortality in grazed areas averaged 31.6% versus more than 90% at ungrazed sites. When tallgrass prairie was converted to red cedar forest, herbaceous species diversity and productivity were drastically reduced, and most grassland species were virtually eliminated. Consequently, community structure shifted from dominance by herbaceous C
3658965|Arctic ecosystems are important in the context of global climate change because the most rapid rises in air temperature are expected at high northern latitudes during winter. The presence of extensive soil carbon reserves in the Arctic suggests that substantial feedbacks to CO
3658911| Tree growth (as diameter increment), litterfall production, and litter biomass were studied in two secondary tropical dry forests of the Yucatn Peninsula under four treatments of nutrient addition. The study's objective was to assess how variations in the nutrient supply affect aboveground net primary production and carbon (C) accumulation on the floor of two forests in different stages of regeneration. The study included an area of young forest (10 years old) with phosphorus (P)-poor soils and an area of old forest (around 60 years old) where soil P was comparatively less limiting. Four replicate plots (12  12 m) at each forest were either left intact (controls) or fertilized with nitrogen (N), P, or N plus P during 3 consecutive years. After 3 years of fertilization, relaxation of the constraints on nutrient limitation resulted in increased trunk growth rates at both the young and old forests. This effect was more pronounced with the addition of P or N plus P (trunk growth doubled with respect to controls), whereas N addition increased tree growth by 60% in comparison to trees in plots without nutrient supplements. In both forests, there were no significant differences in litterfall production among treatments during the first 2 years after fertilization. In the 3rd year of nutrient addition, litterfall production was significantly higher in plots fertilized with N plus P compared to control plots at both forest sites; however, changes in litterfall were not accompanied by litter accumulation in the floor of the two forests. The results of this study support the hypothesis that there is nutrient limitation during tropical dry forest regeneration. They further show that it may be maintained in the long term during secondary succession. 
3658894|Rainbow smelt (Osmerus mordax) is a recent invader to the lakes of the Hudson Bay drainage in northwestern Ontario, Canada. In some systems, the invasion has been linked to an increase in mercury (Hg) concentration in native predatory fish. This increase may be due to the fact that rainbow smelt are trophically elevated and thus accumulate more Hg than native forage fish species. To test this hypothesis, we compared the trophic positions and Hg concentrations of rainbow smelt and native forage fish in a series of smelt-invaded and reference lakes in northwestern Ontario. A comparison of forage fish
25622876|The effect of conversion from forest-to-pasture upon soil carbon stocks has been intensively discussed, but few studies focus on how this land-use change affects carbon (C) distribution across soil fractions in the Amazon basin. We investigated this in the 20 cm depth along a chronosequence of sites from native forest to three successively older pastures. We performed a physicochemical fractionation of bulk soil samples to better understand the mechanisms by which soil C is stabilized and evaluate the contribution of each C fraction to total soil C. Additionally, we used a two-pool model to estimate the mean residence time (MRT) for the slow and active pool C in each fraction. Soil C increased with conversion from forest-to-pasture in the particulate organic matter (>250 m), microaggregate (53-250 m), and d-clay (<2 m) fractions. The microaggregate comprised the highest soil C content after the conversion from forest-to-pasture. The C content of the d-silt fraction decreased with time since conversion to pasture. Forest-derived C remained in all fractions with the highest concentration in the finest fractions, with the largest proportion of forest-derived soil C associated with clay minerals. Results from this work indicate that microaggregate formation is sensitive to changes in management and might serve as an indicator for management-induced soil carbon changes, and the soil C changes in the fractions are dependent on soil texture.
25622866|Slowing or even cessation of litter decomposition with time is well-known, but there is insufficient understanding of the chemical changes that contribute to increasing recalcitrance. Samples from the Canadian Intersite Decomposition Experiment (CIDET) were used to determine 6-year chemical changes for all 11 litters from a site with rapid initial decomposition (Morgan Arboretum, MAR) and for three litters at three colder sites. Six-year mass remaining was 17-37% at MAR, with higher values at the colder sites. Atomic C/N ratios declined and phenolics and condensed tannins generally decreased to minimal values. However, for the three species compared across four sites, phenolics and tannins showed small increases for species with the lowest initial values and also tended to increase with increasing mass loss. For the foliar litters at MAR, there was an average increase in proportion of acid-unhydrolyzable residue (AUR) and decreases in proportions of acid-hydrolyzable (ACID) and extractable fractions, with final AUR/ (ACID + AUR) ratios within 0.55-0.66. Principal component analysis showed that foliar litters (and to a lesser extent wood) became more alike after 6 years, decomposition being associated with increase of Fe, Al, N, and AUR concentrations and decrease of K, Mg, tannins, phenolics, and non-polar and water-soluble fractions. However, litters were also affected by site soil chemistry, with some high 6-year accumulations of Ca, Mg, Fe, Al, Mn, and Mg at two sites. Increasing recalcitrance likely arises from increasing dominance of complex, less-soluble organic structures, collectively represented by AUR, together with increases in heavy elements such as Al and Fe, which also specifically bind and stabilize organic matter.
25470383|Dissolution of the Silurian-Devonian aquifer in the Lake Huron Basin has produced several karst formations in the bedrock (sinkholes), through which groundwater emerges onto the lake floor. During September 2003, we explored a recently discovered submerged sinkhole ecosystem (55 m  40 m  1 m) located at a depth of 93 m with a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) equipped with a conductivity-temperature-depth (CTD) system, an acoustic navigational system, a video camera, and a water sampling system. In addition to two morphotypes of benthic mats, a 1-2 m thick visibly cloudy near-bottom nepheloid-like layer (sinkhole plume) with a strong hydrogen sulfide odor prevailed just above the seepage area of clear water. Relative to lake water, water samples collected within the sinkhole plume were characterized by slightly higher (by 4C) temperatures, very high levels of chloride (up to 175 mg l) and conductivity (1,700 S cm), as well as extremely high concentrations of sulfate (1,400 mg l), phosphorus (3 mg l) and particulate organic matter (400 mg C l). Compared to background lake water, sinkhole plume water was characterized by approximately twofold lower C:N ratios and tenfold higher levels of dissolved organic carbon, bacterial biomass as well as heterotrophic bacterial production. Significant uptake of C-bicarbonate in dark incubations provided preliminary evidence for occurrence of chemosynthesis, possibly mediated by specialized Bacteria and Archae present in this submerged sinkhole ecosystem in the Laurentian Great Lakes.
3658703|Research over the last 100 years has demonstrated the importance of space for ecological processes. Given this importance, it may seem natural to start investigations into broad-scale ecological processes with a comprehensive, broad-scale spatial map. Here we argue that it may sometimes be possible to answer important questions about spatial processes using crude spatial information obtained when a comprehensive map is not available. To present our argument, we first develop a simple simulation model for a perennial plant reproducing and dying on a landscape with different arrangements of suitable and unsuitable sites. We then develop a simple, analytical approximation to predict the fraction of suitable sites that are occupied by the simulated plants. The analytical approximation summarizes the spatial map by using a single parameter that gives the probability that a site adjacent to a suitable site is suitable. Comparing the predictions of both approaches highlights three points: (a) The role of the spatial environment in ecological processes may play out at the local scale. Therefore, studying the local-scale processes may provide insights into landscape patterns. (b) The predictions from the analytical approximation fail noticeably when suitable sites are rare and are distributed randomly (rather than clumped) on the map. In these situations, patches of interconnected suitable sites are very small, and populations within small patches may go extinct via demographic stochasticity. This illustrates how analytical approximations can be used to identify cases when local-scale spatial processes are not sufficient to understand the ecological consequences of space. (c) For many natural systems, constructing the appropriate environmental map needed to study ecological processes is difficult or impossible. However, summary characteristics such as those employed by the analytical approximation may be estimated directly in nature. Therefore, even in the absence of an explicitly spatial broad-scale map, it may be possible to study spatial processes by understanding which local-scale characteristics of space are important.
23501506|Climate warming is expected to decrease snow cover in many northern temperate regions, potentially increasing the severity of soil freezing. Severe soil freezing can enhance nitrogen (N) losses, but it remains unclear which N pools contribute to these losses, how this may change seasonally and how freezing damage might interact with increased atmospheric N deposition. We added 15 N to grass-dominated old field plots treated with combinations of snow removal and N addition, then resampled the plots at the end of the winter and the next fall to assess N losses from the soil, litter, roots and shoots. In addition, we added 15 N to separate treated plots immediately after snowmelt and at peak biomass and sampled these plots after 1 week to assess the potential for interception of N deposition. Snow removal increased soil and root losses of the 15 N label over the winter, but it had no effect on 15 N losses from these pools over summer. N addition had no effect on 15 N losses from these pools over winter or summer, but N addition decreased the interception of 15 N added at snowmelt. Snow removal decreased plant biomass over summer and reduced the interception of 15 N, whereas N addition enhanced plant biomass and increased the interception of 15 N at this time. Our results confirm that severe soil freezing can both enhance soil and root N losses over winter and reduce the interception of N deposition over the growing season, although the latter can be counteracted by increased plant biomass in response to increased N.
23501438|Heathlands are considered biodiversity hotspots of high conservation interest. However, they are at risk of degradation and disappearance in most parts of Europe mainly due to land abandonment, degradation, and conversion to other land uses. Heathlands are semi-natural systems: their maintenance and survival depends on specific practices such as extensive grazing or burning. Traditionally they provide a wide range of goods and services to societies. In this study we used the ecosystem services (ES) framework to analyze the changes in the demand for and delivery of ES for the heathland landscapes of the Cantabrian Mountains (NW Spain), since the 1950s. Particularly, we analyzed how the social changes since the 1950s have determined changes in stakeholders' demand for provisioning, cultural and regulating services and how these changes have influenced the vegetation dynamics and conservation status of these systems. We identified a general shift from the provisioning of grazing facilities and local products for the local-regional market to the provisioning of conservation services to satisfy nationalinternational demand. For the present situation we found a clear mismatch between the conservation demand, management practices, and land-use forms. This mismatch threatens to lead to further landscape changes and loss of biodiversity. The results of our multi-scale and -services study can help to increase awareness of the value of currently obtainable benefits from heathlands among stakeholders and managers. The ES approach can improve understanding of the functioning of the socio-ecological heathland system, and inform the development of new management strategies for heathland protection.
25053891|It is evident when the resilience of a system has been exceeded and the system qualitatively changed. However, it is not clear how to measure resilience in a system prior to the demonstration that the capacity for resilient response has been exceeded. We argue that self-organizing human and natural systems are structured by a relatively small set of processes operating across scales in time and space. These structuring processes should generate a discontinuous distribution of structures and frequencies, where discontinuities mark the transition from one scale to another. Resilience is not driven by the identity of elements of a system, but rather by the functions those elements provide, and their distribution within and across scales. A self-organizing system that is resilient should maintain patterns of function within and across scales despite the turnover of specific elements (for example, species, cities). However, the loss of functions, or a decrease in functional representation at certain scales will decrease system resilience. It follows that some distributions of function should be more resilient than others. We propose that the determination of discontinuities, and the quantification of function both within and across scales, produce relative measures of resilience in ecological and other systems. We describe a set of methods to assess the relative resilience of a system based upon the determination of discontinuities and the quantification of the distribution of functions in relation to those discontinuities.
27823712|We review the current understandings of the frequency, spatial distributions, mechanisms, and ecological consequences of fire in riparian zones. Riparian zones are well known for influencing many ecological processes at local to landscape scales, and fire can have an important ecosystem-scale influence on them. Riparian zones differ from surrounding uplands in their biophysical templates, moisture regimes and disturbance regimes; as a consequence the characteristics and effects of fire are different than in adjacent uplands. Fire impacts on riparian zones vary proportionally with the severity and extent of burning in the catchment and are affected by stream size. Riparian zones can act as a buffer against fire and therefore as a refuge for fire-sensitive species. However, under some circumstances, such as dry pre-fire climatic conditions and the accumulation of dry fuel, riparian areas become corridors for fire movement. Fire incursion into riparian zones creates canopy gaps and drier conditions, which allow subsequent build up of dead wood and establishment of fire adapted species. In concert, this increases fuel loads and the probability of another fire. Secondary effects of riparian fire include altering nutrient fluxes and cycling, increasing sediment loads, and stimulating erosion. We conclude that riparian fires are potentially important in shaping ecological characteristics in many regions, but this is poorly quantified. A better understanding of riparian fire regimes is essential to assess the effects of fire in helping shape the complex ecological characteristics of riparian zones over the longer-term.
25470352|Although habitat fragmentation is one of the greatest threats to biodiversity worldwide, virtually no attention has been paid to the quantification of error in fragmentation statistics. Landscape pattern indices (LPIs), such as mean patch size and number of patches, are routinely used to quantify fragmentation and are often calculated using remotesensing imagery that has been classified into different land-cover classes. No classified map is ever completely correct, so we asked if different maps with similar misclassification rates could result in widely different errors in pattern indices. We simulated landscapes with varying proportions of habitat and clumpiness (autocorrelation) and then simulated classification errors on the same maps. We simulated higher misclassification at patch edges (as is often observed), and then used a smoothing algorithm routinely used on images to correct salt-and-pepper classification error. We determined how well classification errors (and smoothing) corresponded to errors seen in four pattern indices. Maps with low misclassification rates often yielded errors in LPIs of much larger magnitude and substantial variability. Although smoothing usually improved classification error, it sometimes increased LPI error and reversed the direction of error in LPIs introduced by misclassification. Our results show that classification error is not always a good predictor of errors in LPIs, and some types of image postprocessing (for example, smoothing) might result in the underestimation of habitat fragmentation. Furthermore, our results suggest that there is potential for large errors in nearly every landscape pattern analysis ever published, because virtually none quantify the errors in LPIs themselves.
40603420|Ecosystem-level nutrient dynamics during decomposition are often estimated from litter monocultures.If species effects are additive, we can statistically predict nutrient dynamics in multispecies systems from monoculture work, and potential consequences of species loss. However, if species effects are dependent on interactions with other litter species (that is, non-additive), predictions based on monoculture data will likely be inaccurate. We conducted a 3-year, full-factorial, mixed-litter decomposition study of four dominant tree species in a temperate forest and measured nitrogen and phosphorus dynamics to explore whether nutrient dynamics in mixtures were additive or non-additive. Following common approaches, we used litterfall data to predict nutrient dynamics at the ecosystem-level. In mixtures, we observed non-additive effects of litter mixing on nutrient dynamics: the presence of nutrient-rich species in mixture facilitated nutrient release, whereas nutrient-poor species facilitated nutrient retention. Fewer nutrients were released from mixtures containing high-quality litter, and more immobilized from mixtures containing low-quality litter, than predicted from monocultures, creating a difference in overall nutrient release between predicted and actual dynamics in litter mixtures.Nutrient release at the ecosystem-level was greatly overestimated when based on monocultures because the effect of species interactions on nutrient immobilization was not accounted for. Our data illustrate that the identity of species in mixtures is key to their role in non-additive interactions, with repercussions for mineral nutrient availability and storage. These results suggest that predictions of ecosystem-level nutrient dynamics using litter monoculture data likely do not accurately represent actual dynamics because the effects of litter species interactions are not incorporated.
3658833| We tested the hypothesis that plants adjust to nutrient availability by altering carbon allocation patterns and nutrient-use efficiency (NUE = net primary production [NPP] per unit nutrient uptake), but are constrained by a trade-off between NUE and light-use efficiency ( = NPP per unit intercepted light). NPP, NUE and  were measured in montane Metrosideros polymorpha forest across a
41505863|Pulses of aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) in response to discrete precipitation events are an integral feature of ecosystem functioning in arid and semi-arid lands. Yet, the usefulness of nonlinear, ecohydrological pulse response functions to predict regional-scale patterns of annual ANPP at decadal scales remains unclear. Here, we assessed how different pulse response (PR) models compete with simple linear statistical models to capture variability in yearly integrated values of Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI int ), a remotely sensed proxy of annual ANPP. We examined 24-year-long time series of NDVI int calculated from Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) NDVI for 350,000 km of tropical grasslands in northern Australia. Based on goodness-of-fit statistics, PR models clearly outperformed statistical models when parameters were optimized for each site but all models showed the same error magnitude when all sites were combined in ensemble simulations or when the models were evaluated outside the calibration period. PR models were less biased and their performance did not deteriorate in the driest areas compared to linear models. Increasing the complexity of PR models to provide a better representation of soil water balance and its feedback with plant growth did not improve model performance in ensemble simulations. When error magnitude, bias, and sensitivity to parameter uncertainty were all considered, we concluded that a low-dimensional PR model was the most robust to capture NDVT int variability. This study shows the potential of long time series of AVHRR NDVI to benchmark process-oriented models of interannual variability of NDVI int in water-controlled ecosystems. This opens new avenues to examine at the global scale and over several decades the causal relationships between climate and leaf dynamics in the grassland biome.
25470376|An integrated modeling approach is used to link land use to river discharge, and then to survival of larval walleye that hatch in northern Ohio streams draining into Lake Erie (USA). First, to link land use and river discharge, the parameters of a simple hydrologic model are statistically related to watershed landscape attributes, including forest cover. One such relationship allows estimation of the change in daily river discharge that could result from a reduction in basin-scale forest cover. Second, to represent the river discharge-larval survival link, we reexamine a dataset from Mion and others to propose a relationship between daily flow velocity, water temperature, and walleye larval survival. Together, these linked models provide estimates of the reduction in larval survival due to reduction in forest cover, along with the uncertainty of those estimates. For the Grand River watershed, decreasing forest cover from 45.2 to 30% is projected to reduce average larval survival by about 45%. In the adjacent Chagrin River, dropping cover from 62.5 to 30% reduces survival by almost 60%. The greater rate of reduction of survival in the Chagrin River as forest levels fall is explained by a relatively greater increase in storm flows for the Chagrin, due to more frequently saturated soils. Therefore, forest preservation in the Chagrin River watershed is projected to be more effective in preserving walleye larval tributary habitat.
40296390|Northern boreal forest reserves that display no signs of modern forest exploitation are often regarded as pristine and are frequently used as ecological reference areas for conservation and restoration. However, the long-term effects of human utilization of such forests are rarely investigated. Therefore, using both paleoecological and archaeological methods, we analyzed temporal and spatial gradients of long-term human impact in a large oldgrowth forest reserve in the far north of Sweden, comparing vegetational changes during the last millennium at three sites with different land use histories. Large parts of the forest displayed no visible signs of past human land use, and in an area with no recognized history of human land use the vegetation composition appears to have been relatively stable throughout the studied period. However, at two locations effects of previous land use could be distinguished extending at least four centuries back in time. Long-term, but low-intensity, human land use, including cultivation, reindeer herding and tree cutting, has clearly generated an open forest structure with altered species composition in the field layer at settlement sites and in the surrounding forest. Our analysis shows that past human land use created a persistent legacy that is still visible in the present forest ecosystem. This study highlights the necessity for ecologists to incorporate a historical approach to discern underlying factors that have caused vegetational changes, including past human activity. It also indicates that the intensity and spatial distribution of human land use within the landscape matrices of any forests should be assessed before using them as ecological references. The nomenclature of vascular plants follows Krok and Almquist (Svensk flora. Fanerogamer och ormbunksvaxter, 2001).
25470362|Our understanding of the dynamics of urban ecosystems can be enhanced by examining the multidimensional social characteristics of households. To this end, we investigated the relative significance of three social theories of household structure-population, lifestyle behavior, and social stratification-to the distribution of vegetation cover in Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Our ability to assess the relative significance of these theories depended on fine-scale social and biophysical data. We distinguished among vegetation in three areas hypothesized to be differentially linked to these social theories: riparian areas, private lands, and public rights-of-way (PROWs). Using a multimodel inferential approach, we found that variation of vegetation cover in riparian areas was not explained by any of the three theories and that lifestyle behavior was the best predictor of vegetation cover on private lands. Surprisingly, lifestyle behavior was also the best predictor of vegetation cover in PROWs. The inclusion of a quadratic term for housing age significantly improved the models. Based on these research results, we question the exclusive use of income and education as the standard variables to explain variations in vegetation cover in urban ecological systems. We further suggest that the management of urban vegetation can be improved by developing environmental marketing strategies that address the underlying household motivations for and participation in local land management.
40296297|Woody debris is a conspicuous feature of many ecosystems and can be a large pool of stored carbon and nutrients. In the California coastal prairie, yellow bush lupines (Lupinus arboreus) experience mass die-offs, producing large quantities of woody detritus. Live lupines are fed upon by the stemboring caterpillars of the ghost moth, Hepialus californicus, and outbreaks of ghost moths are one factor contributing to lupine die-offs. A common detritivore, the terrestrial isopod Porcellio scaber, frequently inhabits ghost moth tunnels in lupine wood. We used a litterbag experiment to test the hypothesis that H. californicus increases decomposition of woody lupine detritus by facilitating its use by P. scaber. Isopod access to wood was crossed with simulated ghost moth boring to measure the independent and interactive effects of these two arthropods on total mass loss, as well as on carbon, nitrogen, and lignin dynamics. Isopods initially colonized litterbags but were not more abundant on L. arboreus logs that had simulated ghost moth boring than on logs without boring. They were rare in litterbags collected at 12 months or later and had no effect on wood decomposition. Simulated ghost moth boring increased wood decomposition (P = 0.0021), from 50.5 to 55.1% mass loss after 3 years. This effect was likely due to increased surface area for microbial utilization of the wood. Lupine wood had an initial lignin content of 14.70  0.67%, but lignin did not appear to decompose during the 3 years of this study, and by the end of the experiment accounted for 32.6  1.12% of the remaining wood. Neither ghost moth boring nor isopod access affected lignin loss. Lupine wood from a die-off in 2002 was estimated to have contained three times more nitrogen per unit area than the yearly input of annual grass litter. The slow decomposition of lupine wood, however, restricts the rate at which nitrogen is released into the soil and results in the storage of carbon and nutrients in lupine wood for several years following such die-offs.
23501465|Riparian ecosystems in the 21st century are likely to play a critical role in determining the vulnerability of natural and human systems to climate change, and in influencing the capacity of these systems to adapt. Some authors have suggested that riparian ecosystems are particularly vulnerable to climate change impacts due to their high levels of exposure and sensitivity to climatic stimuli, and their history of degradation. Others have highlighted the probable resilience of riparian ecosystems to climate change as a result of their evolution under high levels of climatic and environmental variability. We synthesize current knowledge of the vulnerability of riparian ecosystems to climate change by assessing the potential exposure, sensitivity, and adaptive capacity of their key components and processes, as well as ecosystem functions, goods and services, to projected global climatic changes. We review key pathways for ecological and human adaptation for the maintenance, restoration and enhancement of riparian ecosystem functions, goods and services and present emerging principles for planned adaptation. Our synthesis suggests that, in the absence of adaptation, riparian ecosystems are likely to be highly vulnerable to climate change impacts. However, given the critical role of riparian ecosystem functions in landscapes, as well as the strong links between riparian ecosystems and human well-being, considerable means, motives and opportunities for strategically planned adaptation to climate change also exist. The need for planned adaptation of and for riparian ecosystems is likely to be strengthened as the importance of many riparian ecosystem functions, goods and services will grow under a changing climate. Consequently, riparian ecosystems are likely to become adaptation 'hotspots' as the century unfolds.
40928214|Anthropogenic nitrogen (N) loading has the potential to affect plant community structure and function, and the carbon dioxide (CO) sink of peatlands. Our aim is to study how vegetation changes, induced by nutrient input, affect the CO exchange of a nutrient-limited bog. We conducted 9- and 4-year fertilization experiments at Mer Bleue bog, where we applied N addition levels of 1.6, 3.2, and 6.4 g N m a, upon a background deposition of about 0.8 g N m a, with or without phosphorus and potassium (PK). Only the treatments 3.2 and 6.4 g N m a with PK significantly affected CO fluxes. These treatments shifted the Sphagnum moss and dwarf shrub community to taller dwarf shrub thickets without moss, and the CO responses depended on the phase of vegetation transition. Overall, compared to the large observed changes in the vegetation, the changes in CO fluxes were small. Following Sphagnum loss after 5 years, maximum ecosystem photosynthesis (Pg max ) and net CO exchange (NEE max ) were lowered (19 and 46%, respectively) in the highest NPK treatment. In the following years, while shrub height increased, the vascular foliar biomass did not fully compensate for the loss of moss biomass; yet, by year 8 there were no significant differences in Pg max and NEE max between the nutrient and the control treatments. At the same time, an increase (24-32%) in ecosystem respiration (ER) became evident. Trends in the N-only experiment resembled those in the older NPK experiment by the fourth year. The increasing ER with increasing vascular plant and decreasing Sphagnum moss biomass across the experimental plots suggest that high N deposition may lessen the CO sink of a bog.
40603645|Spatial heterogeneity influences ecosystem structure and function across multiple habitat scales. Although primary production and respiration are fundamental to energy cycling in aquatic ecosystems, we know relatively little about how habitat scale influences metabolism. In this study, we adopted a multi-scale habitat approach to evaluate primary production and respiration in a coastal Great Lakes watershed that is experiencing pressure from past, present, and anticipated future human activities. We divided the watershed into five macrohabitats (stream, river, wetland, drowned-river mouth lake, and Great Lake), two mesohabitats (benthic and water column), and four microhabitats (periphytic substrates: sand/sediment, rock, wood, and plant) for evaluation of spatial patterns and synchrony in metabolism. Factors that influenced patterns of metabolism were scale dependent. Algal biomass strongly influenced spatial patterns in metabolism at the meso-and microhabitat scales; greater algal biomass translated to higher areal-specific and lower chlorophyll-specific metabolism at benthic mesohabitat and sand/sediment and rock microhabitats. Benthic metabolism overwhelmed water column metabolism, irrespective of location or time of year. Watershed position was important at the macrohabitat scale, with greater overall metabolism in macrohabitats located lower in the watershed. Average synchrony in metabolism rates was greatest at the macrohabitat scale, suggesting metabolic patterns that are evident at finer scales may become integrated at coarser scales. Our results (1) show that spatial and temporal patterns in metabolism are shaped by factors that are dependent upon habitat scale; (2) highlight the importance of benthic productivity across habitat and season; and (3) suggest that hydrologie connectivity strongly influences ecosystem processes, although physical factors can affect these responses as evidenced by the low levels of synchrony between Lake Michigan and the other macrohabitats.
40296350|Understanding of ecological differences among urban land covers can guide the sustainable management of urbanized landscapes for conservation of ecosystem services. The objective of our study was to compare ecosystem properties at the abovegroundbelowground interface of three land-cover types commonly found in residential land-scapes: lawns, bark mulch, and gravel mulch. Using unmowed vegetation as a reference land cover, we measured surface soil variables (to 5 cm depth), CO fluxes, and ground temperatures in experimental field plots within 3 years after their creation. Each land cover had a distinctive set of ecosystem properties. Mulched plots had significantly warmer soil and surface temperatures, wetter soils and faster surface litter decomposition than vegetated plots. Variables associated with soil C and earthworm numbers were consistently lowest in gravel-covered soils, whereas bark mulch plots had highest earthworm abundances, lowest soil bulk density, and temporally variable soil organic matter dynamics. Compared to unmowed plots, lawns had higher soil carbon, CO fluxes, and temperatures but lower earthworm abundances especially during 2005 drought conditions. We conclude that ecosystem properties of the land covers were influenced by the composition, density, and arrangement of materials comprising their aboveground habitat structures. We discuss our results within an ecosystem services framework and suggest that interpretations of our findings depend on in situ urban environmental contexts and landscape management objectives. Future studies of urban land covers, their ecosystem properties and associated ecosystem services are needed to help provide a scientific basis for sustainable urban landscape management.
25053814|Severe, stand-replacing fires affect large areas of northern temperate and boreal forests, potentially modifying ecosystem function for decades after their occurrence. Because these fires occur over large extents, and in areas where plant production is limited by nitrogen (N) availability, the effect of fire on N cycling may be important for long-term ecosystem productivity. In this article, we review what is known about postfire N cycling in northern temperate and boreal forests experiencing stand-replacing fires. We then build upon existing literature to identify the most important mechanisms that control postfire N availability in systems experiencing severe, stand-replacing fires compared with fires of lower severity. These mechanisms include changes in abiotic conditions caused by the opening of the canopy (for example, decreased LAI, increased solar radiation), changes in ground layer quantity and quality (for example, nutrient release, permafrost levels), and postfire plant and microbial adaptations affecting N fixation and N uptake (for example, serotiny, germination cues). Based on the available literature, these mechanisms appear to affect N inputs, internal N cycling, and N outputs in various ways, indicating that severe fire systems are variable across time and space as a result of complex interactions between postfire abiotic and biotic factors. Future experimental work should be focused on understanding these mechanisms and their variability across the landscape.
23501442|Efforts toward systematic conservation planning for freshwaters have progressed less than similar efforts in terrestrial and marine environments. Although there are important differences, many of the tools that have been used in terrestrial and marine systems can also be used for freshwater conservation planning. In this paper, we used return on investment (ROI) analysis to identify optimal riparian land conservation portfolios under different objectives. Our overarching research question is: how do different strategies for evaluating ROI objectives influence the resulting conservation portfolio and the outcome of interest, lake water quality? We examined agricultural riparian land investments to improve water quality in 55 inland lakes in southwestern Michigan. We simulated investments and compared the ROIs for the following strategies: (1) economic; (2) ecological; and (3) environmental policy. Furthermore, as a reference point, we also compared the resulting three conservation portfolios to that derived by simulating riparian land enrollment under the Conservation Reserve Program. We found that (1) investments in freshwater resources through the conservation of riparian land were more effective than the conservation of randomly selected parcels of similar land area in the catchment; (2) the costs and benefits of riparian land conservation varied considerably among lakes; (3) the choice of investment objectives, and therefore ROI strategies, resulted in very different conservation portfolios; (4) the simulated enrollment process of the Conservation Reserve Program fared poorly in terms of improving lake water quality as compared to the three strategies.
25470314|Fire, which is the dominant disturbance in the boreal forest, creates substantial heterogeneity in soil burn severity at patch and landscape scales. We present results from five field experiments in Yukon Territory, Canada, and Alaska, USA that document the effects of soil burn severity on the germination and establishment of four common boreal trees: Picea glauca, Picea mariana, Pinus contorta subsp. latifolia, and Populus tremuloides. Burn severity had strong positive effects on seed germination and net seedling establishment after 3 years. Growth of transplanted seedlings was also significantly higher on severely burned soils. Our data and a synthesis of the literature indicated a consistent, steep decline in conifer establishment on organic soils at depths greater than 2.5 cm. A meta-analysis of seedling responses found no difference in the magnitude of severity effects on germination versus net establishment. There were, however, significant differences in establishment but not germination responses among deciduous trees, spruce, and pine, suggesting that small-seeded species experience greater mortality on lightly burned, organic soils than large-seeded species. Together, our analyses indicate that variations in burn severity can influence multiple aspects of forest stand structure, by affecting the density and composition of tree seedlings that establish after fire. These effects are predicted to be most important in moderately-drained forest stands, where a high potential variability in soil burn severity is coupled with strong severity effects on tree recruitment.
43677537|Long-term (10 years) growth responses of residual trees to prescribed fire and thinning were evaluated using standard dendrochronological protocols to understand the broader effects of the treatments on mixed-oak forest ecosystems in southern Ohio. Analysis of 696 increment cores (348 trees > 25 cm DBH; five species) from 80 0.1 ha permanent plots distributed evenly across four treatments (control, thin, thin + burn, burn) indicated substantial increase in tree basal area increment (BAI) following the treatment. Post-treatment mean BAI of trees from the three active treatments ranged from 20.52 to 23.55 cm y compared with pre-treatment values of 16.86-17.07 cm y. BAI rates (averaging 15.13 and 16.33 cm y, respectively, for pre- and post-treatments) in the control plots did not change much over time. Mechanical treatments were more effective than prescribed fire at enhancing BAI of trees. However, basal area growth depended to some degree on the severity of prescribed fire. Analysis of percent BAI change revealed an interesting temporal trend with moderate to major growth releases during the first 5-year post-treatment period, and a slight attenuation thereafter, suggesting the need for periodic application of treatments to sustain growth over a longer timescale. Growth responses varied greatly among species, with yellow-poplar and hickories exhibiting the highest and lowest posttreatment BAI rates of 31.11 and 15.71 cm y, respectively. Given their variable growth responses, integrating residual trees into current monitoring programs may help in elucidating the consequences of prescribed fire and thinning on forest dynamics and development.
3658821|It has been hypothesized that the high diversity of giant kelp forests is due primarily to the provision of energy and habitat by the giant kelp (Macrocystis pyrifera). In this article, I use a 19-year-long kelp forest-monitoring data set from the Channel Islands National Park (a) to identify associations between subtidal species and forested or deforested habitats, (b) to generate an idealized food web for Southern California giant kelp forests in order to identify the primary conduits of energy flow through the system, and (c) to determine changes in the diversity and complexity of this food web due to localized giant kelp deforestation. A total of 275 common species were observed in the park between 1982 and 2000, of which 36% occurred significantly more often in kelp-forested areas than in deforested areas (that is, sea urchin barrens); 25 species were found exclusively in forested areas. Most of these associations were clearly identified as trophic and/or structural associations with giant kelp itself. The producer level of the food web was diverse, although giant kelp apparently represents the greatest single source of fixed carbon through either direct grazing or the production of phytodetritus. Primary, secondary and tertiary consumer levels were also represented by numerous species, and generalist consumers were common. With deforestation, the source of primary production shifts from primarily kelps to ephemeral microalgae, macroalgae, and phytoplankton. These results support the reliance of giant kelp forest food-web structure and diversity on the presence of the forest itself.
3658873|A detailed fixed nitrogen (N) mass balance was constructed for the Central Arizona-Phoenix (CAP) ecosystem. Input of fixed N input to the ecosystem was
3658908|Fluxes of dissolved organic matter (DOM) are an important vector for the movement of carbon (C) and nutrients both within and between ecosystems. However, although DOM fluxes from throughfall and through litterfall can be large, little is known about the fate of DOM leached from plant canopies, or from the litter layer into the soil horizon. In this study, our objectives were to determine the importance of plant-litter leachate as a vehicle for DOM movement, and to track DOM decomposition [including dissolve organic carbon (DOC) and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) fractions], as well as DOM chemical and isotopic dynamics, during a long-term laboratory incubation experiment using fresh leaves and litter from several ecosystem types. The water-extractable fraction of organic C was high for all five plant species, as was the biodegradable fraction; in most cases, more than 70% of the initial DOM was decomposed in the first 10 days of the experiment. The chemical composition of the DOM changed as decomposition proceeded, with humic (hydrophobic) fractions becoming relatively more abundant than nonhumic (hydrophilic) fractions over time. However, in spite of proportional changes in humic and nonhumic fractions over time, our data suggest that both fractions are readily decomposed in the absence of physicochemical reactions with soil surfaces. Our data also showed no changes in the 
40296417|Human-mediated disturbances such as fishing, habitat modification, and pollution have resulted in significant shifts in species composition and abundance in marine ecosystems which translate into degradation of food-web structure. Here, we used a comparative ecological modelling approach and data from two food webs (North-Central Adriatic and South Catalan Sea) and two time periods (mid-late 1970s and 1990s) in the Mediterranean Sea to evaluate how changes in species composition and biomass have affected food-web properties and the extent of ecosystem degradation. We assembled species lists and ecological information for both regions and time periods into stochastic structural and mass-balance food-web models, and compared the outcomes of 22 food-web properties. Our results show strong similarities in structural food-web properties between the North-Central Adriatic and South Catalan Seas indicating similar ecosystem structure and levels of ecological degradation between regions and time periods. In contrast, a comparison with other published marine food webs (Caribbean, Benguela, and US continental shelf) suggested that Mediterranean webs are in an advanced state of ecological degradation. This was reflected by lower trophic height, linkage density, connectance, omnivory, species involved in looping, trophic chain length and fraction of biomass at higher trophic levels, as well as higher generality and fraction of biomass at lower trophic levels. An analysis of robustness to simulated species extinction revealed lower robustness to species removals in Mediterranean webs and corroborated their advanced state of degradation. Importantly, the two modelling approaches used delivered comparable results suggesting that they both capture fundamental information about how food webs are structured.
27823756|Lack of tree regeneration and persistency of species-poor shrublands represent a growing problem across Mediterranean evergreen oak forests. What constrains forest regeneration is poorly understood, and restoration attempts have been largely unsuccessful. We assessed the contribution of four different mechanisms of tree recruitment limitation (that is, source, dispersal, germination, and establishment) in a cork oak (Quercus suber) system in southern Portugal. Using a combination of field studies and experiments, we quantified seed production, seed removal and dispersal, seed survival and germination, seedling establishment and survival, as well as cork oak natural regeneration for the three dominant vegetation types in this system (Cistus ladanifer shrubland, oak forest, and oak savanna). We found that all four forms of cork oak recruitment limitation were significantly more severe in shrublands than in oak forests and savannas, so that oak seedling recruitment in shrubland was impeded in multiple ways. Our results explain why transitions from shrublands to oak savannas and forests are extremely difficult, and that the release from arrested succession in this system requires the simultaneous relief of multiple constraints on recruitment limitation in the early life history of oaks. These results have important implications for the restoration and conservation of Mediterranean oak systems.
40603510|A removal experiment was used to examine the restoration potential of a lowland wet forest in Hawaii, a remnant forest type that has been heavily invaded by non-native species and in which there is very little native species regeneration. All non-native woody and herbaceous biomass (approximately 45% of basal area) was removed in four 100-m removal plots; plots were followed for a three-year period. Removal plots had a lower leaf area index, higher air temperatures, higher afternoon soil temperatures, and lower relative humidity than control plots. Removal plots had 40% less litterfall mass and similarly reduced nutrient inputs. Leaf litter decomposition rates were much slower in the removal plots, due more to site quality than litter quality. However, soil N and  were not different between treatments. Native species had a distinct suite of leaf traits (greater integrated water use efficiency, lower mass-based leaf nutrient concentrations, and lower specific leaf area). Despite major environmental changes in the removal plots, native species' diameter growth and litterfall productivity were not significantly greater after removal, testifying to the slow response capabilities of native Hawaiian trees. Our results are consistent with the expectation that native species are conservative in regards to resource use and may not strongly respond to canopy removal, at least at the adult stage. Management strategies will have to incorporate the slow growth rate of Hawaiian species and the fact that weeding may be required to suppress expansion and nutrient inputs of introduced species.
25470321|The link between species and ecosystem functioning is a central issue in ecology. In natural plant communities, the dominant species determine most of the productivity-related processes but what is the function of minor species? A recent hypothesis suggests that after disturbance, minor species facilitate the recruitment and abundance of dominants during re-colonization, thus indirectly determining ecosystem function. We tested this hypothesis using a long-term data-set of annual plant communities in a semiarid shrubland by comparing plant density and biomass from plots in which all vegetation had been removed; plots from which only the dominant (the annual grass Stipa capensis) had been removed, and control plots. In the absence of vegetation, the dominant failed to re-establish during the following growing season. After being removed the dominant re-established similarly to the controls. An ant exclosure experiment excluded the possibility that this was due to seed predation. In an experiment with individual dispersal units of S. capensis, we demonstrated the mechanism by which minor species can control the dominant's abundance. Minor species indirectly govern ecosystem processes by providing structures facilitating seed soil penetration and thus recruitment of the dominant.
41507792|Nutrient cycles in both terrestrial and many fresh-water habitats are fueled by terrestrial detritus. However, direct comparisons of decomposition processes in these environments are scarce. Aiming at shedding light on similarities and differences in these processes in different habitats, we studied decomposition of low-quality versus high-quality detritus through the action of shredders versus grazers in aquatic versus terrestrial microcosms under controlled climatic conditions. Decomposition processes were most strongly affected by whether they took place in the terrestrial or the aquatic environment: Leaching resulted in a rapid mass loss of detritus in the aquatic environment, and detritus traits became less pronounced over time. Thus, breakdown was mediated through dissolved organic matter (DOM) in water but through particulate organic matter (POM) on land. Litter mass loss and the promoting effects of detritivores on mass loss also depended on the environment, but shredders always had a greater effect than grazers. Both litter and detritivore diversity were overall of little relevance for litter mass loss, but more so in the aquatic than the terrestrial environment. By contrast, the influence of detritivores on microbes was stronger in water than on land, but effects depended on the litter type. The type of both litter and detritivores, however, was less significant in the aquatic than in the terrestrial environment, possibly due to leaching and abiotic processing of litter during early decomposition, resulting in diminishing differences between litter types. We conclude that the habitat type shapes the dynamics of leaf litter decomposition. Heavy leaching (in the aquatic environment) shortens initial decomposition phases and dislocates the degradation of easily accessible compounds in the form of DOM from the leaves into the water column. Consequently, initial interspecific differences in litter quality diminish, and both functional differences in, and diversity of, both litter and detritivores become less important than in the terrestrial environment.
3659045|To date, most research that has examined the effect of elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration ([ CO
25053834|Although tropical wet forests play an important role in the global carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycles, little is known about the origin, composition, and fate of dissolved organic C (DOC) and N (DON) in these ecosystems. We quantified and characterized fluxes of DOC, DON, and dissolved inorganic N (DIN) in throughfall, litter leachate, and soil solution of an old-growth tropical wet forest to assess their contribution to C stabilization (DOC) and to N export (DON and DIN) from this ecosystem. We found that the forest canopy was a major source of DOC (232 kg C
3658972|Cross-scale resilience theory predicts that the combination of functional diversity within scales and functional redundancy across scales is an important attribute of ecosystems because it helps these systems resist minor ecological disruptions and regenerate after major disturbances such as hurricanes and fire. Using the vertebrate fauna of south Florida, we quantified how the loss of native species and invasion by nonnatives may alter functional group richness within and across scales. We found that despite large changes in species composition due to potential extinctions and successful invasions by nonnative species, functional group richness will not change significantly within scales, there will not be any significant loss of overall redundancy of ecology function across scales, and overall body mass pattern will not undergo substantial change. However, the types of functions performed will change, and this change may have profound effects on not only the Everglades ecosystem but on the entire landscape of south Florida.
3658892| Hurricanes affect ecosystem processes by altering resource availability and heterogeneity, but the spatial and temporal signatures of these events on biomass and nutrient cycling processes are not well understood. We examined mass and nutrient inputs of hurricane-derived litter in six tropical forests spanning three life zones in northeastern Puerto Rico after the passage of Hurricane Georges. We then followed the decomposition of forest floor mass and nutrient dynamics over 1 year in the three forests that experienced the greatest litter inputs (moist, tabonuco, and palm forests) to assess the length of time for which litter inputs influence regeneration and nutrient cycling processes. The 36-h disturbance event had litterfall rates that ranged from 0.55 to 0.93 times annual rates among the six forests; forest floor ranged between 1.2 and 2.5 times prehurricane standing stocks. The upper-elevation forest sites had the lowest nonhurricane litterfall rates and experienced the lowest hurricane litterfall and the smallest relative increase in forest floor standing stocks. In the three intensively studied forests, the forest floor returned to prehurricane values very quickly, within 2-10 months. The palm forest had the slowest rate of decay
27823765|Seagrasses are threatened by human activity in many locations around the world. Their decline is often characterized by sudden ecosystem collapse from a vegetated to a bare state. In the 1930s, such a dramatic event happened in the Dutch Wadden Sea. Before the shift, large seagrass beds (Zostera marina) were present in this area. After the construction of a large dam and an incidence of the "wasting disease" in the early 1930s, these meadows became virtually extinct and never recovered despite restoration attempts. We investigated whether this shift could be explained as a critical transition between alternative stable states, and whether the lack of recovery could be due to the high resilience of the new turbid state. We analyzed the depth distribution of the historical meadows, a long-term dataset of key factors determining turbidity and a minimal model based on these data. Results demonstrate that recovery was impossible because turbidity related to suspended sediment was too high, probably because turbidity was no longer reduced by seagrass itself. Model simulations on the positive feedback suggest indeed the robust occurrence of alternative stable states and a high resilience of the current turbid state. As positive feedbacks are common in seagrasses, our findings may explain both the worldwide observed collapses and the low success rate of restoration attempts of seagrass habitats. Therefore, appreciation of ecosystem resilience may be crucial in seagrass ecosystem management.
25470333|Sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.)-dominated northern hardwood forests in the upper Lakes States region appear to be particularly sensitive to chronic atmospheric NO deposition. Experimental NO deposition (3 g NO N m y) has significantly reduced soil respiration and increased the export of DOC/DON and NO across the region. Here, we evaluate the possibility that diminished microbial activity in mineral soil was responsible for these ecosystem-level responses to NO deposition. To test this alternative, we measured microbial biomass, respiration, and N transformations in the mineral soil of four northern hardwood stands that have received 9 years of experimental NO deposition. Microbial biomass, microbial respiration, and daily rates of gross and net N transformations were not changed by NO deposition. We also observed no effect of NO deposition on annual rates of net N mineralization. However, NO deposition significantly increased (27%) annual net nitrification, a response that resulted from rapid microbial NO assimilation, the subsequent turnover of NH, and increased substrate availability for this process. Nonetheless, greater rates of net nitrification were insufficient to produce the 10-fold observed increase in NO export, suggesting that much of the exported NO resulted directly from the NO deposition treatment. Results suggest that declines in soil respiration and increases in DOC/DON export cannot be attributed to NO-induced physiological changes in mineral soil microbial activity. Given the lack of response we have observed in mineral soil, our results point to the potential importance of microbial communities in forest floor, including both saprotrophs and mycorrhizae, in mediating ecosystem-level responses to chronic NO deposition in Lake States northern hardwood forests.
3658583|Landscape ecology is based on the premise that there are strong links between ecological pattern and ecological function and process. Ecological systems are spatially heterogeneous, exhibiting considerable complexity and variability in time and space. This variability is typically represented by categorical maps or by a collection of samples taken at specific spatial locations (point data). Categorical maps quantize variability by identifying patches that are relatively homogeneous and that exhibit a relatively abrupt transition to adjacent areas. Alternatively, point-data analysis (geostatistics) assumes that the system property is spatially continuous, making fewer assumptions about the nature of spatial structure. Each data model provides capabilities that the other does not, and they should be considered complementary. Although the concept of patches is intuitive and consistent with much of ecological theory, point-data analysis can answer two of the most critical questions in spatial pattern analysis: what is the appropriate scale to conduct the analysis, and what is the nature of the spatial structure? I review the techniques to evaluate categorical maps and spatial point data, and make observations about the interpretation of spatial pattern indices and the appropriate application of the techniques. Pattern analysis techniques are most useful when applied and interpreted in the context of the organism(s) and ecological processes of interest, and at appropriate scales, although some may be useful as coarse-filter indicators of ecosystem function. I suggest several important needs for future research, including continued investigation of scaling issues, development of indices that measure specific components of spatial pattern, and efforts to make point-data analysis more compatible with ecological theory.
23328066|Symbiotic N 2 -fixing tree species can accelerate ecosystem N dynamics through decomposition feedbacks via both direct and indirect pathways. Direct pathways include the production of readily decomposed leaf litter and increased N supply to decomposers, whereas indirect pathways include increased tissue N and altered detrital dynamics of non-fixing vegetation. To evaluate the relative importance of direct and indirect pathways, we compared 3-year decomposition and N dynamics of N 2 -fixing red alder leaf litter (2.34% N) to both low-N (0.68% N) and high-N (1.21% N) litter of non-fixing Douglas-fir, and decomposed each litter source in four forests dominated by either red alder or Douglas-fir. We also used experimental N fertilization of decomposition plots to assess elevated N availability as a potential mechanism of N 2 -fixer effects on litter mass loss and N dynamics. Direct effects of N 2 -fixing red alder on decomposition occurred primarily as faster N release from red alder than Douglas-fir litter. Direct increases in N supply to decomposers via experimental N fertilization did not stimulate decomposition of either species litter. Fixed N indirectly influenced detrital dynamics by increasing Douglas-fir tissue and litter N concentrations, which accelerated litter N release without accelerating mass loss. By increasing soil N, tissue N, and the rate of N release from litter of non-fixers, we conclude that N 2 -fixing vegetation can indirectly foster plantsoil feedbacks that contribute to the persistence of elevated N availability in terrestrial ecosystems.
25053860|Ecosystem respiration (ER) is an important but poorly understood part of the carbon (C) budget of peatlands and is controlled primarily by the thermal and hydrologic regimes. To establish the relative importance of these two controls for a large ombrotrophic bog near Ottawa, Canada, we analyzed ER from measurements of nighttime net ecosystem exchange of carbon dioxide
3658764|Cycling of nitrogen (N) is commonly studied in aquatic ecosystems; however, most studies examine only parts of the N cycle, such as budgets, N uptake lengths, or oxidative transformations. To integrate conceptually and experimentally several aspects of the N cycle in a stream, we combined a N-cycling model and a tracer addition of nitrogen 15 (
27823733|Leaf area index (LAI) is a key parameter controlling plant productivity and biogeochemical fluxes between vegetation and the atmosphere. Tropical forests are thought to have comparably high LAIs; however, precise data are scarce and environmental controls of leaf area in tropical forests are not understood. We studied LAI and stand leaf biomass by optical and leaf mass-related approaches in five tropical montane forests along an elevational transect (1,0503,060 m a.s.l.) in South Ecuador, and conducted a meta-analysis of LAI and leaf biomass data from tropical montane forests around the globe. Study aims were (1) to assess the applicability of indirect and direct approaches of LAI determination in tropical montane forests, (2) to analyze elevation effects on leaf area, leaf mass, SLA, and leaf lifespan, and (3) to assess the possible consequences of leaf area change with elevation for montane forest productivity. Indirect optical methods of LAI determination appeared to be less reliable in the complex canopies than direct leaf mass-related approaches based on litter trapping and a thorough analysis of leaf lifespan. LAI decreased by 4060% between 1,000 and 3,000 m in the Ecuador transect and also in the pan-tropical data set. This decrease indicates that canopy carbon gain, that is, carbon source strength, decreases with elevation in tropical montane forests. Average SLA decreased from 88 to 61 cm2 g1 whereas leaf lifespan increased from 16 to 25 mo between 1,050 and 3,060 m in the Ecuador transect. In contrast, stand leaf biomass was much less influenced by elevation. We conclude that elevation has a large influence not only on the leaf traits of trees but also on the LAI of tropical montane forests with soil N (nitrogen) supply presumably being the main controlling factor.
41505950|In the boreal forest, fire, insects, and logging all affect spatial patterns in forest age and species composition. In turn, spatial legacies in age and composition can facilitate or constrain further disturbances and have important consequences for forest spatial structure and sustainability. However, the complex three-way interactions among fire, insects, and logging and their combined effects on forest spatial structure have seldom been investigated. We used a spatially explicit landscape simulation model to examine these interactions. Specifically, we investigated how the amount and the spatial scale of logging (cutblock size) in combination with succession, fire, and spruce budworm outbreaks affect area burned and area defoliated. Simulations included 30 replicates of 300 years for each of 19 different disturbance scenarios. More disturbances increased both the fragmentation and the proportion of coniferous species and imposed additional constraints on the extent of each disturbance. We also found that harvesting legacies affect fire and budworm differently due to differences in forest types consumed by each disturbance. Contrary to expectation, budworm defoliation did not affect area burned at the temporal scales studied and neither amount of logging nor cutblock size influenced defoliation extent. Logging increased fire size through conversion of more of the landscape to early seral, highly flammable forest types. Although logging increased the amount of budworm host species, spruce budworm caused mortality was reduced due to reductions in forest age. In general, we found that spatial legacies do not influence all disturbances equally and the duration of a spatial legacy is limited when multiple disturbances are present. Further information on post-disturbance succession is still needed to refine our understanding of long-term disturbance interactions.
3658786|The effects of changes in tropical land use on soil emissions of nitrous oxide ( N
43677498|Soil amendments can increase net primary productivity (NPP) and soil carbon (C) sequestration in grasslands, but the net greenhouse gas fluxes of amendments such as manure, compost, and inorganic fertilizers remain unclear. To evaluate opportunities for climate change mitigation through soil amendment applications, we designed a field-scale model that quantifies greenhouse gas emissions (CO, CH, and NO) from the production, application, and ecosystem response of soil amendments. Using this model, we developed a set of case studies for grazed annual grasslands in California. Sensitivity tests were performed to explore the impacts of model variables and management options. We conducted Monte Carlo simulations to provide estimates of the potential error associated with variables where literature data were sparse or spanned wide ranges. In the base case scenario, application of manure slurries led to net emissions of 14 Mg COe ha over a 3-year period. Inorganic N fertilizer resulted in lower greenhouse gas emissions than the manure (3 Mg COe ha), assuming equal rates of N addition and NPP response. In contrast, composted manure and plant waste led to large offsets that exceeded emissions, saving 23 Mg COe ha over 3 years. The diversion of both feedstock materials from traditional high-emission waste management practices was the largest source of the offsets; secondary benefits were also achieved, including increased plant productivity, soil C sequestration, and reduced need for commercial feeds. The greenhouse gas saving rates suggest that compost amendments could result in significant offsets to greenhouse gas emissions, amounting to over 28 MMg COe when scaled to 5% of California rangelands. We found that the model was highly sensitive to manure and landfill management factors and less dependent on C sequestration, NPP, and soil greenhouse gas effluxes. The Monte Carlo analyses indicated that compost application to grasslands is likely to lead to net greenhouse gas offsets across a broad range of potential environmental and management conditions. We conclude that applications of composted organic matter to grasslands can contribute to climate change mitigation while sustaining productive lands and reducing waste loads.
40603616|Current climate change and overfishing are affecting the productivity and structure of marine ecosystems. This situation is unprecedented for the marine biosphere and it is essential to understand the mechanisms and pathways by which ecosystems respond. We report that climate change and overfishing are likely to be responsible for a rapid restructuring of a highly productive marine ecosystem with effects throughout the plagos and the benthos. In the mid-1980s, climate change, consequent modifications in the North Sea plankton, and fishing, all reduced North Sea cod recruitment. In this region, production of many benthic species respond positively and immediately to temperature. Analysis of a long-term, spatially extensive biological (plankton and cod) and physical (sea surface temperature) dataset suggests that synchronous changes in cod numbers and sea temperature have established an extensive trophic cascade favoring lower trophic level groups over economic fisheries. A proliferation of jellyfish that we detect may signal the climax of these changes. This modified North Sea ecology may provide a clear indication of the synergistic consequences of coincident climate change and overfishing. The extent of the ecosystem restructuring that has occurred in the North Sea suggests we are unlikely to reverse current climate and human-induced effects through ecosystem resource management in the short term. Rather, we should understand and adapt to new ecological regimes. This implies that fisheries management policies will have to be fully integrated with the ecological consequences of climate change to prevent a similar collapse in an exploited marine ecosystem elsewhere.
40792956|Shallow soft-sediment systems are mostly dominated by species that, by strongly affecting sediment dynamics, modify their local environment. Such ecosystem engineering species can have either sediment-stabilizing or sediment-destabilizing effects on tidal flats. They interplay with abiotic forcing conditions (wind, tide, nutrient inputs) in driving the community structure and generating spatial heterogeneity, determining the composition of different communities of associated species, and thereby affecting the channelling of energy through different compartments in the food web. This suggests that, depending on local species composition, tidal flats may have conspicuously different geomorphology and biological functions under similar external conditions. Here we use a historical reconstruction of benthic production in the Wadden Sea to construct a framework for the relationships between human impacts, ecosystem engineering and sediment dynamics. We propose that increased sediment disturbances by human exploitation interfere with biological controls of sediment dynamics, and thereby have shifted the dominant compartments of both primary and secondary production in the Wadden Sea, transforming the intertidal from an internally regulated and spatially heterogeneous, to an externally regulated and spatially homogenous system. This framework contributes to the general understanding of the interaction between biological and environmental control of ecosystem functioning, and suggests a general framework for predicting effects of human impacts on soft-bottom ecosystems.
41505932|Since its inception, the ecosystem concept has been widely used in ecology and is increasingly finding application within other disciplines. In more recent times within ecology, however, it has been suggested the term is now obsolete. We argue that three problems lie at the heart of these criticisms, namely the physics-biology duality problem, the boundary problem and the abstraction problem. The physics-biology duality problem (how to grapple with systems that follow the laws of both physics and biology) is addressed by modern computer science techniques originating from simulation and software engineering. The boundary problem (how to find the limits of an ecosystem in the real world) is solved by a powerful assumption of Tansley, that the ecosystem is an ad hoc construct on the part of an observer for a particular purpose. The abstraction problem (can models of an ecosystem at different levels of detail produce the same outcomes) has no general solution, but can be improved upon by using scaling techniques and standards to facilitate model comparisons. We demonstrate that Tansley's (Ecology 16: 284-307, 1935) definition is still relevant to modern ecology almost as is. Tansley's ecosystem is a multi-disciplinary, recursive, scale-independent and observerdependent object. These properties closely match those of complex systems as defined in mathematics and computer sciences. From Tansley's definition, we propose a formal description of the concepts and relations linked to the ecosystem definition, as an ontology that can serve as a basis for future discussion, modelling and conceptual work.
41413963|The influence of land use on potential fates of nitrate (NO) in stream ecosystems, ranging from denitrification to storage in organic matter, has not been documented extensively. Here, we describe the Pacific Northwest component of Lotie Intersite Nitrogen experiment, phase II (LINXII) to examine how land-use setting influences fates of NO in streams. We used 24 h releases of a stable isotope tracer (NO-N) in nine streams flowing through forest, agricultural, and urban land uses to quantify NO uptake processes. NO uptake lengths varied two orders of magnitude (24-4247 m), with uptake rates (6.5-158.1 mg NON m day) and uptake velocities (0.1-2.3 mm min) falling within the ranges measured in other LINX II regions. Denitrification removed 0-7% of added tracer from our streams. In forest streams, 60.4 to 77.0% of the isotope tracer was exported downstream as NO, with 8.0 to 14.8% stored in wood biofilms, epilithon, fine benthic organic matter, and bryophytes. Agricultural and urban streams with streamside forest buffers displayed hydrologie export and organic matter storage of tracer similar to those measured in forest streams. In agricultural and urban streams with a partial or no riparian buffer, less than 1 to 75% of the tracer was exported downstream; much of the remainder was taken up and stored in autotrophic organic matter components with short N turnover times. Our findings suggest restoration and maintenance of riparian forests can help re-establish the natural range of NO uptake processes in human-altered streams.
3658891|The objective of this study was to compare the carbon (C) budgets of two similar-aged boreal black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP) forest communities: closed-canopy black spruce with feathermoss ground cover (BSFM) on moderately drained soils and open-canopy black spruce with Sphagnum ground cover (BSSP) on poorly drained soils. C content, soil surface carbon dioxide ( CO
43677541|The larch forests at the southern limit of the Siberian boreal forest in Central Asia have repeatedly experienced strong recent growth declines attributed to decreasing summer precipitation in the course of climate warming. Here, we present evidence from the southernmost Larix sibirica forests in eastern Kazakhstan that these declines are primarily caused by a decrease in effective moisture due to increasing summer temperatures, despite constant annual, and summer precipitation. Tree-ring chronologies (> 800 trees) showed a reduction by 50-80% in mean ring width and an increase in the frequency of missing rings since the 1970s. Climate-response analysis revealed a stronger (negative) effect of summer temperature (in particular of the previous year's June and July temperature) on radial growth than summer precipitation (positive effect). It is assumed that a rise in the atmospheric vapor pressure deficit, which typically increases with temperature, is negatively affecting tree water status and radial growth, either directly or indirectly through reduced soil moisture. Larch rejuvenation ceased in the 1950s, which is partly explained by increasing topsoil desiccation in a warmer climate and a high drought susceptibility of larch germination, as was demonstrated by a germination experiment with variable soil moisture levels. The lack of regeneration and the reduced annual stem increment suggest that sustainable forest management aiming at timber harvesting is no longer feasible in these southern boreal forests. Progressive climate warming is likely to cause a future northward shift of the southern limit of the boreal forest.
25053888|Soil microorganisms mediate many critical ecosystem processes. Little is known, however, about the factors that determine soil microbial community composition, and whether microbial community composition influences process rates. Here, we investigated whether aboveground plant diversity affects soil microbial community composition, and whether differences in microbial communities in turn affect ecosystem process rates. Using an experimental system at La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, we found that plant diversity (plots contained 1, 3, 5, or > 25 plant species) had a significant effect on microbial community composition (as determined by phospholipid fatty acid analysis). The different microbial communities had significantly different respiration responses to 24 labile carbon compounds. We then tested whether these differences in microbial composition and catabolic capabilities were indicative of the ability of distinct microbial communities to decompose different types of litter in a fully factorial laboratory litter transplant experiment. Both microbial biomass and microbial community composition appeared to play a role in litter decomposition rates. Our work suggests, however, that the more important mechanism through which changes in plant diversity affect soil microbial communities and their carbon cycling activities may be through alterations in their abundance rather than their community composition.
41507787|The increase in the consumption of animal products is likely to put further pressure on the world's freshwater resources. This paper provides a comprehensive account of the water footprint of animal products, considering different production systems and feed composition per animal type and country. Nearly one-third of the total water footprint of agriculture in the world is related to the production of animal products. The water footprint of any animal product is larger than the water footprint of crop products with equivalent nutritional value. The average water footprint per calorie for beef is 20 times larger than for cereals and starchy roots. The water footprint per gram of protein for milk, eggs and chicken meat is 1.5 times larger than for pulses. The unfavorable feed conversion efficiency for animal products is largely responsible for the relatively large water footprint of animal products compared to the crop products. Animal products from industrial systems generally consume and pollute more ground- and surface-water resources than animal products from grazing or mixed systems. The rising global meat consumption and the intensification of animal production systems will put further pressure on the global freshwater resources in the coming decades. The study shows that from a freshwater perspective, animal products from grazing systems have a smaller blue and grey water footprint than products from industrial systems, and that it is more water-efficient to obtain calories, protein and fat through crop products than animal products.
3658883|Aquatic habitat change caused by flooding was quantified along the Fiume Tagliamento, a morphologically intact gravel-bed river ecosystem in northeast Italy. Five different geomorphic reaches (each around 1.5 km), ranging from near the headwaters at 800 m above sea level (a.s.l.) to near the mouth at 5 m a.s.l., were studied over a 1-year period. All floodplain water bodies in each reach were delineated in August 1999 using a differential global positioning system. Each reach was remapped twice (in December 1999 and August 2000) to investigate the impact of autumn and spring flood seasons on aquatic habitat composition and configuration. A high degree (nearly 62%) of aquatic habitat turnover was documented in a braided headwater floodplain. The degree of aquatic habitat turnover decreased with decreasing elevation to approximately 20% turnover in a meandering reach at 5 m a.s.l. In contrast to turnover, braiding, sinuosity, and aquatic habitat composition changed little in response to flooding in all reaches. Location of aquatic habitats in floodplains changed considerably (turnover), whereas habitat configuration and composition remained relatively stable. These results support the applicability of the shifting mosaic steady-state model to riverine floodplain environments.
41507775|The production and use of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) have been restricted in North America since the 1970s; yet, PCBs are still detected in all components of the Great Lakes ecosystems. Our objective was to determine how total PCB (PCB T ) concentrations in spottail shiner (Notropis hudsonius) changed over the period 1975-2007 in the lower Great Lakes. Trends were best described by three basic models: (1) piecewise models where concentrations followed a decreasing trend before the break point (T) and an increasing trend post-T (Lake St. Clair, eastern Lake Erie, and upper Niagara (River); (2) piecewise models where concentrations decreased both pre- and post- T but where the rate of decline post-T was less than that pre-T(western Lake Erie and Niagara River's Tonawanda (Channel); and (3) linear models where concentrations declined at a constant rate across the entire temporal range (lower Niagara River and western Lake Ontario). Piecewise models best described the trends in shallow areas that are susceptible to full water-column mixing whereas constant-slope models best described trends in deeper areas. For piecewise models, T typically occurred during the years 1988-1992. Two events coincided with this timing: (1) a sustained shift towards warming summer temperatures and (2) the proliferation of dreissenid mussels (Dreissena spp.). The weight-of-evidence suggests that the dreissenid invasions were a more likely driving factor behind the observed trends.
41505997|Ecosystem engineers can strongly modify habitat structure and resource availability across space. In theory, this should alter the spatial distributions of trophically interacting species. In this article, we empirically investigated the importance of spatially extended habitat modification by reef-building bivalves in explaining the distribution of four avian predators and their benthic prey in the Wadden Seaone of the world's largest intertidal soft-sediment ecosystems. We applied Structural Equation Modeling to identify important direct and indirect interactions between the different components of the system. We found strong spatial gradients in sediment properties into the surrounding area of mixed blue mussel (Mytilus edulis) and Pacific oyster (Crassostrea gigas) reefs, indicating large-scale (100s of m) engineering effects. The benthic community was significantly affected by these gradients, with the abundance of several important invertebrate prey species increasing with sediment organic matter and decreasing with distance to the reefs. Distance from the reef, sediment properties, and benthic food abundance simultaneously explained significant parts of the distribution of oystercatchers (Haematopus ostmlegus), Eurasian curlews (Numenius arquata), and bar-tailed godwits (Limosa lapponica). The distribution of black-headed gulls (Chroicocephalus ridibundus)a versatile species with many diet options appeared unaffected by the reefs. These results suggest that intertidal reef builders can affect consumer-resource dynamics far beyond their own boundaries, emphasizing their importance in intertidal soft-bottom ecosystems like the Wadden Sea.
41413975|Permafrost soils are a significant global store of carbon (C) with the potential to become a large C source to the atmosphere. Climate change is causing permafrost to thaw, which can affect primary production and decomposition, therefore affecting ecosystem C balance. To understand future responses of permafrost soils to climate change, we inventoried current soil C stocks, investigated C, C: N, C, and N depth profiles, modeled soil C accumulation rates, and calculated decadal net ecosystem production (NEP) in subarctic tundra soils undergoing minimal, moderate, and extensive permafrost thaw near Eight Mile Lake (EML) in Healy, Alaska. We modeled decadal and millennial soil C inputs, decomposition constants, and C accumulation rates by plotting cumulative C inventories against C ages based on radiocarbon dating of surface and deep soils, respectively. Soil C stocks at EML were substantial, over 50 kg C m in the top meter, and did not differ much among sites. Carbon to nitrogen ratio, <C, and N depth profiles indicated most of the decomposition occurred within the organic soil horizon and practically ceased in deeper, frozen horizons. The average C accumulation rate for EML surface soils was 25.8 g C m{ y and the rate for the deep soil accumulation was 2.3 g C m y, indicating these systems have been C sinks throughout the Holocene. Decadal net ecosystem production averaged 14.4 g C m{ y. However, the shape of decadal C accumulation curves, combined with recent annual NEP measurements, indicates soil C accumulation has halted and the ecosystem may be becoming a C source. Thus, the net impact of climate warming on tundra ecosystem C balance includes not only becoming a C source but also the loss of C uptake capacity these systems have provided over the past ten thousand years.
40296383|We exploited the natural climate gradient in the northern hardwood forest at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF) to evaluate the effects of climate variation similar to what is predicted to occur with global warming over the next 50-100 years for northeastern North America on soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycle processes. Our objectives were to (1) characterize differences in soil temperature, moisture and frost associated with elevation at the HBEF and (2) evaluate variation in total soil (TSR) and microbial respiration, N mineralization, nitrification, denitrification, nitrous oxide (NO) flux, and methane (CH) uptake along this gradient. Low elevation sites were consistently warmer (1.5-2.5C) and drier than high elevation sites. Despite higher temperatures, low elevation plots had less snow and more soil frost than high elevation plots. Net N mineralization and nitrification were slower in warmer, low elevation plots, in both summer and winter. In summer, this pattern was driven by lower soil moisture in warmer soils and in winter the pattern was linked to less snow and more soil freezing in warmer soils. These data suggest that N cycling and supply to plants in northern hardwood ecosystems will be reduced in a warmer climate due to changes in both winter and summer conditions. TSR was consistently faster in the warmer, low elevation plots. N cycling processes appeared to be more sensitive to variation in soil moisture induced by climate variation, whereas C cycling processes appeared to be more strongly influenced by temperature.
25053855|This study examined impacts of succession on N export from 20 headwater stream systems in the west central Cascades of Oregon, a region of low anthropogenic N inputs. The seasonal and successional patterns of nitrate
27823675|Atmospheric deposition of nitrogen (N) resulting from fossil fuel combustion has increased N inputs to temperate forests worldwide with large consequences for forest productivity and water quality. Recent work has illustrated that dissolved organic N (DON) often dominates N loss from unpolluted forests and that the relative magnitude of dissolved inorganic N (DIN) loss increases with atmospheric loading. In contrast to DIN, DON loss is thought to be controlled by soil dynamics that operate independently of N supply and demand and thus should track dissolved organic carbon (DOC) following strict stoichiometric constraints. Conversely, DON loss may shift with N supply if soil (SOM) or dissolved organic matter (DOM) is stoichiometrically altered. Here, we assess these two explanations of DON loss, which we refer to as the Passive Carbon Vehicle and the Stoichiometric Enrichment hypotheses, by analyzing patterns in soil and stream C and N in forest watersheds spanning a broad gradient in atmospheric N loading (545 kg N ha1 y1). We show that soil N and DON losses are not static but rather increase asymptotically with N loading whereas soil C and DOC do not, resulting in enrichment of organic N expressed as decreased soil C:N and stream DOC:DON ratios. DON losses from unpolluted sites are consistent with conservative dissolution and transport of refractory SOM. As N supply increases, however, N enrichment of organic losses is greater than expected from simple dissolution of enriched soils, suggesting activation of novel pathways of DON production or direct N enrichment of DOM. We suggest that our two hypotheses represent domains of control over forest DON loss as N supply increases but also that stoichiometric enrichment of bulk soils alone cannot fully account for large DON losses in the most N-polluted forests.
40296265|Nutrient availability in the arctic is expected to increase in the next century due to accelerated decomposition associated with warming and, to a lesser extent, increased nitrogen deposition. To explore how changes in nutrient availability affect ecosystem carbon (C) cycling, we used radiocarbon to quantify changes in belowground C dynamics associated with long-term fertilization of graminoid-dominated tussock tundra at Toolik Lake, Alaska. Since 1981, yearly fertilization with nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) has resulted in a shift to shrub-dominated vegetation. These combined changes have altered the quantity and quality of litter inputs, the vertical distribution and dynamics of fine roots, and the decomposition rate of soil organic C. The loss of C from the deep organic and mineral soil has more than offset the C accumulation in the litter and upper organic soil horizons. In the litter and upper organic horizons, radiocarbon measurements show that increased inputs resulted in overall C accumulation, despite being offset by increased decomposition in some soil pools. To reconcile radiocarbon observations in the deeper organic and mineral soil layers, where most of the ecosystem C loss occurred, both a decrease in input of new root material and a dramatic increase of decomposition rates in centuries-old soil C pools were required. Therefore, with future increases in nutrient availability, we may expect substantial losses of C which took centuries to accumulate.
25470328|The term "keystone species" is used to describe organisms that exert a disproportionately important influence on the ecosystems in which they live. Analogous concepts such as "keystone mutualism" and "mobile links" illustrate how, in many cases, the interactions of two or more species produce an effect greater than that of any one species individually. Because of their role in transporting nutrients from the ocean to river and riparian ecosystems, Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) and brown bear (Ursus arctos) have been described as keystone species and mobile links, although few data are available to quantify the importance of this interaction relative to other nutrient vectors. Application of a mass balance model to data from a southwestern Alaskan stream suggests that nitrogen (N) influx to the riparian forest is significantly increased in the presence of both salmon and bear, but not by either species individually. The interactions of salmon and bear may provide up to 24% of riparian N budgets, but this percentage varies in time and space according to variations in salmon escapement, channel morphology and watershed vegetation characteristics, suggesting interdependence and functional redundancy among N sources. These findings illustrate the complexity of interspecific interactions, the importance of linkages across ecosystem boundaries and the necessity of examining the processes and interactions that shape ecological communities, rather than their specific component parts.
3659006| We studied the natural regeneration of an ombrotrophic peatland (Cacouna bog) located in southern Qubec that was disturbed by peat mining and other anthropogenic activities over a 200-year period. Using an extensive collection of historical documents, as well as dendrochronological data, we reconstructed the history of the peatland. We also sampled vegetation and environmental variables, and integrated the data in a geographic information system. More than 60% of the total area of the bog was mined between 1942 and 1975, and 98 km of ditches were dug to drain the site. The peatland lost 34% of its initial peat volume between 1946 and 1998. Although the bog was severely disturbed, the spontaneous revegetation of the site by vascular plants was successful (90%-100% cover). However, only 10% of the total mined area has been recolonized by Sphagnum species, mainly because drainage ditches are still operational and contribute to drying out the bog. Water table level, peat deposit thickness, and pH are abiotic factors strongly influencing the vegetation composition in the bog. Spatial and historical factors are also important components in this study since they explain, either alone or in interaction with abiotic factors, 44% of the variation of the species data. The intensity of mining activities and the pattern of abandonment of mined sectors strongly influenced abiotic factors, which in turn affected the revegetation process. Even if the Sphagnum cover of the bog is low, the rapid "recovery" of the vegetation cover in the peatland indicates that after the reestablishment of an appropriate hydrological regime, a highly disturbed peatland has a considerable potential for regeneration. 
41505939|The spatial pattern of fire observed across boreal landscapes is the outcome of complex interactions among components of the fire environment. We investigated how the naturally occurring patterns of ignitions, fuels, and weather generate spatial pattern of burn probability (BP) in a large and highly fireprone boreal landscape of western Canada, Wood Buffalo National Park. This was achieved by producing a high-resolution map of BP using a fire simulation model that models the ignition and spread of individual fires for the current state of the study landscape (that is, the 'control'). Then, to extract the effect of the variability in ignitions, fuels, and weather on spatial BP patterns, we subtracted the control BP map to those produced by "homogenizing" a single environmental factor of interest (that is, the 'experimental treatments'). This yielded maps of spatial residuals that represent the spatial BP patterns for which the heterogeneity of each factor of interest is responsible. Residuals were analyzed within a structural equation modeling framework. The results showed unequal contributions of fuels (67.4%), weather (29.2%), and ignitions (3.4%) to spatial BP patterning. The large contribution of fuels reflects how substantial heterogeneity of land cover on this landscape strongly affects BP. Although weather has a chiefly temporal control on fire regimes, the variability in fire-conducive weather conditions exerted a surprisingly large influence on spatial BP patterns. The almost negligible effect of spatial ignition patterns was surprising but explainable in the context of this area's fire regime. Similar contributions of fuels, weather, and ignitions could be expected in other parts of the boreal forest that lack a strong anthropogenic imprint, but are likely to be altered in human-dominated fire regimes.
3659055|The management paradigm fails when confronted with complex problems where there are no clearly defined objectives and a plethora of mutually contradictory approaches, each of which is plausible in a particular frame of reference. The notion of the disinterested expert cannot withstand scrutiny, and putative experts must earn public trust. Scientists must be prepared to share their advisory and decision-making roles with a variety of interested parties and participate with them on an equal footing.
41413039|This study evaluated whether nitrogen (N) saturated upland forests can degrade downstream water quality in the Tatara River Basin, northern Kyushu, western Japan. Our hypothesis is that elevated atmospheric N deposition degrades downstream water quality in a watershed containing N-saturated forests because a considerable amount of atmospherically deposited N passes into the streams without being retained. Synoptic stream water samplings were conducted at 23 sites across a wide range of land-use categories in the basin over 1 year. A long-term temporal analysis of downstream water quality over the last 30 years (1977-2007) was conducted and compared with longterm trends in related factors such as urban/agricultural activity, sewage wastewater treatment, atmospheric N deposition, and forest condition. The results showed that atmospherically deposited N to N-saturated forests can be a large enough non-point source of N leaving the watershed to impact downstream water quality. This was highlighted by the reduction in pollutant exports derived from urban/agricultural activities, an increase in atmospheric N deposition, and the maturation of coniferous plantation forests in the past 30 years. These have led to reductions in total phosphorus and organic nitrogen concentrations in downstream water, whereas downstream nitrate (NO) concentrations increased over the last 30 years. The consequent increase in the downstream N:P ratio indicated P limitation. Reducing the $NO_3^ - $ exports from N-saturated upland forests is suggested as a strategy to improve regional downstream $NO_3^ - $ pollution, but involves intercontinental-scale action in reducing atmospheric N emissions.
25053848|An increase in ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation has been posited to be a potential factor in the decline of some amphibian population. This hypothesis has received support from laboratory and field experiments showing that current levels of UV-B can cause embryo mortality in some species, but little research has addressed whether UV-B is influencing the distribution of amphibian populations. We compared patterns of amphibian presence to site-specific estimates of UV-B dose at 683 ponds and lakes in Glacier, Olympic, and Sequoia-Kings Canyon National Parks. All three parks are located in western North America, a region with a concentration of documented amphibian declines. Site-specific daily UV-B dose was estimated using modeled and field-collected data to incorporate the effects of elevation, landscape, and water-column dissolved organic carbon. Of the eight species we examined (Ambystoma gracile, Ambystoma macrodactylum, Bufo boreas, Pseudacris regilla, Rana cascadae, Rana leuteiventris, Rana muscosa, Taricha granulosa), two species (T. granulosa and A. macrodactylum) had quadratic relationships with UV-B that could have resulted from negative UV-B effects. Both species were most likely to occur at moderate UV-B levels. Ambystoma macrodactylum showed this pattern only in Glacier National Park. Occurrence of A. macrodactylum increased as UV-B increased in Olympic National Park despite UV-B levels similar to those recorded in Glacier. We also found marginal support for a negative association with UV-B for P. regilla in one of the two parks where it occurred. We did not find evidence of a negative UV-B effect for any other species. Much more work is still needed to determine whether UV-B, either alone or in concert with other factors, is causing widespread population losses in amphibians.
25470369|To initially characterize the dynamics and environmental controls of CO, ecosystem CO fluxes were measured for different vegetation zones in a deep-water wetland on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau during the growing season of 2002. Four zones of vegetation along a gradient from shallow to deep water were dominated, respectively by the emergent species Carex allivescens V. Krez., Scirpus distigmaticus L., Hippuris vulgaris L., and the submerged species Potamogeton pectinatus L. Gross primary production (GPP), ecosystem respiration (Re), and net ecosystem production (NEP) were markedly different among the vegetation zones, with lower Re and GPP in deeper water. NEP was highest in the Scirpus-dominated zone with moderate water depth, but lowest in the Potamogeton-zone that occupied approximately 75% of the total wetland area. Diurnal variation in CO flux was highly correlated with variation in light intensity and soil temperature. The relationship between CO flux and these environmental variables varied among the vegetation zones. Seasonal CO fluxes, including GPP, Re, and NEP, were strongly correlated with above-ground biomass, which was in turn determined by water depth. In the early growing season, temperature sensitivity (Q) for Re varied from 6.0 to 8.9 depending on vegetation zone. Q decreased in the late growing season. Estimated NEP for the whole deep-water wetland over the growing season was 24 g C m. Our results suggest that water depth is the major environmental control of seasonal variation in CO flux, whereas photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) controls diurnal dynamics.
25053875|Log floating in the 19th to mid 20th centuries has profoundly changed the environmental conditions in many northern river systems of the world. Regulation of flow by dams, straightening and narrowing of channels by various piers and wing dams, and homogenization of bed structure are some of the major impacts. As a result, the conditions for many riverine organisms have been altered. Removing physical constructions and returning boulders to the channels can potentially restore conditions for these organisms. Here we describe the history of log driving, review its impact on physical and biological conditions and processes, and predict the responses to restoration. Reviewing the literature on comparable restoration efforts and building upon this knowledge, using boreal Swedish rivers as an example, we address the last point. We hypothesize that restoration measures will make rivers wider and more sinuous, and provide rougher bottoms, thus improving land-water interactions and increasing the retention capacity of water, sediment, organic matter and nutrients. The geomorphic and hydraulic/hydrologic alterations are supposed to favor production, diversity, migration and reproduction of riparian and aquatic organisms. The response rates are likely to vary according to the types of processes and organisms. Some habitat components, such as beds of very large boulders and bedrock outcrops, and availability of sediment and large woody debris are believed to be extremely difficult to restore. Monitoring and evaluation at several scales are needed to test our predictions.
40603421|We investigated the role of rock-derived mineral nutrient availability on the nutrient dynamics of overlying forest communities (Populus tremuloides and Picea engelmanni-Abies lasiocarpa v. arizonica) across three parent materials (andsite, limestone, and sandstone) in the southern Rocky Mountains of Colorado. Broad geochemical differences were observed between bedrock materials; however, bulk soil chemistries were remarkably similar between the three different sites. In contrast, soil nutrient pools were considerably different, particularly for P, Ca, and Mg concentrations. Despite variations in nutrient stocks and nutrient availability in soils, we observed relatively inflexible foliar concentrations and foliar stoichiometries for both deciduous and coniferous species. Foliar nutrient rsorption (P and K) in the deciduous species followed patterns of nutrient content across substrate types, with higher rsorption corresponding to lower bedrock concentrations. Work presented here indicates a complex plant response to available soil nutrients, wherein plant nutrient use compensates for variations in supply gradients and results in the maintenance of a narrow range in foliar stoichiometry.
25470388|Linked social-ecological systems in which surprise and crisis are interspersed with periods of stability and predictability are inherently difficult to manage. This condition, coupled with the legacies of past management actions, typically leaves policy and decision makers few options other than to incrementally adapt and reinforce the current trajectory of the system. Decision making becomes increasingly reactive and incremental as the system moves from one crisis to another. Eventually the system loses its capacity to cope with perturbations and surprise. Using a combination of dynamical-systems modeling and historical analysis, we studied a process of this kind as it developed in the Goulburn Broken Catchment in southeastern Australia over the past 150 years. Using the model to simulate trajectories of the biohydrological system, we correlate the state of the physical system to historical events and management action. We show how sequential management decisions have eroded the resilience of the system (its ability to cope with shocks and surprises) and reduced options for future change. Using the model in a forward-looking mode, we explore future management options and their implications for the resilience of the system.
40296292|We compared terrestrial net primary production (NPP) and terrestrial export of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) with lake water heterotrophic bacterial activity in 12 headwater lake catchments along an altitude gradient in subarctic Sweden. Modelled NPP declined strongly with altitude and annual air temperature decreases along the altitude gradient (6C between the warmest and the coldest catchment). Estimated terrestrial DOC export to the lakes was closely correlated to NPP. Heterotrophic bacterial production (BP) and respiration (BR) were mainly based on terrestrial organic carbon and strongly correlated with the terrestrial DOC export. Excess respiration over PP of the pelagic system was similar to net emission of CO in the lakes. BR and CO emission made up considerably higher shares of the terrestrial DOC input in warm lakes than in cold lakes, implying that respiration and the degree of net heterotrophy in the lakes were dependant not only on terrestrial export of DOC, but also on characteristics in the lakes which changed along the gradient and affected the bacterial metabolization of allochthonous DOC. The study showed close links between terrestrial primary production, terrestrial DOC export and bacterial activity in lakes and how these relationships were dependant on air temperature. Increases in air temperature in high latitude unproductive systems might have considerable consequences for lake water productivity and release of CO to the atmosphere, which are ultimately determined by terrestrial primary production.
25470400|In marine soft sediments, large organisms are potentially important players in the nonlinear interactions that occur among animals, their food, and their chemical environment, all of which influence the contribution of benthos to ecosystem function. We investigated the consequences of removing large individuals of two functionally contrasting benthic communities on nutrient regeneration, microphyte standing stock, and macrobenthic community composition. The experiment was conducted at two adjacent sites that were physically similar but biologically different, one dominated by large deposit feeders and the other by large suspension feeders. Chemical fluxes were measured in experimental plots, and sediments were sampled to assess changes in macrofauna, sediment grain size, organic content, and microphyte standing stock. Our results demonstrate that the removal of large suspension feeders or deposit feeders influenced the flux of nitrogen and oxygen, surficial sediment characteristics, and community composition. In the deposit-feeder community, interactions between nutrient regeneration and grazing highlight important feedbacks between large macrofauna and biogeochemical processes and production by microphytes, indicating that the loss of large infauna driven by increased rates of anthropogenic disturbance may lead to functional extinction and cause shifts in community structure and ecosystem performance.
3658655| Submerged macrophytes are a major component of freshwater ecosystems, yet their net effect on water column phosphorus (P), algae, and bacterioplankton is not well understood. A 4-month mass-balance study during the summer quantified the net effect of a large (5.5 ha) undisturbed macrophyte bed on these water-column properties. The bed is located in a slow-flowing
3658919| Studies in unpolluted, old-growth forests in the coastal range of southern Chile (4230S) can provide a baseline for understanding how forest ecosystems are changing due to the acceleration of nitrogen (N) inputs that has taken place over the last century. Chilean temperate forests, in contrast to their northern hemisphere counterparts, exhibit extremely low losses of inorganic N to stream waters. The objectives of this study were (a) to determine whether low inorganic N outputs in these forests were due to low rates of N mineralization or nitrification, and (b) to examine how biodiversity (defined as number of dominant tree species) and forest structure influence N mineralization and overall patterns of N cycling. Studies were conducted in a species-poor, conifer-dominated (Fitzroya cupressoides) forest with an even-aged canopy, and in a mixed-angiosperm (Nothofagus nitida) forest with a floristically more diverse and unstable canopy. Nitrogen mineralization rates measured in laboratory assays varied seasonally, reaching 6.0 g N/g DW/day in both forests during late summer. Higher values were related to higher microbial activity, larger pools of labile inorganic N, and increased fine litter inputs. Field assays, conducted monthly, indicated positive net flux from N mineralization mainly from December to January in both forests. Annual net flux of N from mineralization varied from 20 to 23 kg/ha/year for the Fitzroya forest and from 31 to 37 kg/ha/year for the Nothofagus forest. Despite low losses of inorganic N to streams, N mineralization and nitrification are not inhibited in these forests, implying the existence of strong sinks for NO
40296419|A minimal food web model was constructed comprising one grazing and one detritus food chain coupled by nutrient cycling and generalist carnivores to investigate how prey preference by carnivores may affect the strength of trophic cascades across a gradient of nutrient enrichment. The equilibrium or mean abundance of each food web component and the magnitude of the carnivore effect on lower trophic levels were calculated for different values of the prey preference and nutrient input parameters. Our model predicts that nutrient enrichment increases the mean abundances of carnivores, autotrophs and detritus, but the magnitude of this effect is dependent on the prey preference term. On the other hand, herbivores and detritivores are relatively unaffected by enrichment but are strongly affected by carnivore preference. Carnivores have a negative effect on herbivores and a positive effect on autotrophs and detritus, whereas the effect on detritivores can be both positive and negative. At high preference for herbivores, carnivores have a positive effect on detritivores, because the positive effect of increased detritus availability due to reduced herbivore grazing outweighs the negative effect of predation. At high preference for detritivores, the balance is changed in the other direction. We argue that in systems where authochtonous primary production is the major source of detritus, herbivores can control the rates of detritus production and have indirect effects on detritivores, which may feed back into effects on herbivores through their shared enemies. This positive feedback is probably one mechanism affecting the resilience of alternative stable states in shallow lakes.
40603433|The environmental and biotic factors affecting spatial variation in canopy three-dimensional (3-D) structure and aboveground tree biomass (AGB) are poorly understood in tropical rain forests. We combined field measurements and airborne light detection and ranging (lidar) to quantify 3-D structure and AGB across a 5,016 ha rain forest reserve on the northeastern flank of Mauna Kea volcano, Hawaii Island. We compared AGB among native stands dominated by Metrosideros polymorpha found along a 6001800 m elevation/climate gradient, and on three substrate-age classes of 5, 20, and 65 kyr. We also analyzed how alien tree invasion, canopy species dominance and topographic relief influence AGB levels. Canopy vertical profiles derived from lidar measurements were strong predictors (r = 0.78) of AGB across sites and species. Mean AGB ranged from 48 to 363 Mg ha in native forest stands. Increasing elevation corresponded to a 5384% decrease in AGB levels, depending upon substrate age. Holding climate constant, changes in substrate age from 5 to 65 kyr corresponded to a 2353% decline in biomass. Invasion by Psidium cattleianum and Ficus rubiginosa trees resulted in a 1938% decrease in AGB, with these carbon losses mediated by substrate age. In contrast, the spread of former plantation tree species Fraxinus uhdei corresponded to a 7-to 10-fold increase in biomass. The effects of topographic relief at both local and regional scales were evident in the AGB maps, with poorly drained terrain harboring 76% lower biomass than forests on welldrained relief. Our results quantify the absolute and relative importance of environmental factors controlling spatial variation in tree biomass across a rain forest landscape, and highlight the rapid changes in carbon storage incurred following biological invasion.
3658717|We examined red maple (Acer rubrum L.) leaf litter breakdown in streams and riparian zones at two sites in the southern Appalachian Mountains to understand how differences in abiotic and biotic factors influence leaf breakdown rates. Litterbags were placed in three riparian habitats differing in litter layer moisture: stream > bank > upland. Invertebrates colonizing litterbags at one site were also examined to determine how variations in community and functional structure affect breakdown rates. Leaves broke down fastest in streams and slowest in upland habitats, whereas bank habitats were intermediate and characterized by high variability. Faster leaf breakdown rates in streams appeared to be a function of greater moisture availability, a more stable thermal regime, and a higher biomass of leaf-shredding invertebrates, especially the stonefly Tallaperla. In addition, patterns of leaf breakdown and invertebrate community structure provided evidence for a stronger than expected ecological connection between the stream and the bank. Overall, detritus processing within this narrow riparian ecosystem varied considerably depending on the availability of moisture. Results from this study show that stream channel-flood-plain interactions in riparian ecosystems of steep forested mountains are analogous to ones in larger downstream or low-gradient systems. Riparian zones throughout a river network display a remarkable heterogeneity in their ability to process organic matter, which is ultimately driven by changes in hydrological conditions.
40603629|The cycling of trace metals through terrestrial ecosystems is modulated by plant and soil processes.Changes in plant growth and function and soil properties associated with increased atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO ) may therefore also affect the biological storage and stoichiometry of trace metals.We examined COeffects on a suite of metal micronutrients and contaminants in forest trees and soils at two free-air COenrichment sites a loblolly pine forest in North Carolina (Duke) and a sweetgum plantation in Tennessee [Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL)] and an open-top chamber experiment in a scrub-oak community in Florida [Smithsonian Environmental Research Center (SERC)]. We found that CO effects on soil metals were variable across sites; there were significantly higher surface soil metal concentrations with CO enrichment at Duke and ORNL (P < 0.05), but a trend of decreased soil metal concentrations at SERC (non-significant). These impacts on metals may be understood in the context of CO effects on soil organic matter (SOM); changes in percent SOM with CO enrichment were greatest at Duke (18% increase), followed by ORNL (7% increase), with limited effect at SERC (3% increase).There were significant effects of elevated CO on foliar metal concentrations at all sites, but the response of foliar metals to CO enrichment varied by metal, among sites, and within sites based on plant species, canopy height, and leaf age.Contrary to expectations, we did not find an overall decline in foliar metal concentrations with CO enrichment, and some essential plant metals were greater under elevated CO (for example, 28% increase in Mn across species and sites). Our results suggest that elevated CO impacts on trace metal biogeochemistry can be understood by accounting for both metal function (or lack thereof) in plants and the soil characteristics of the ecosystem.
25470391|Soil respiration
25053876|Food chain models have dominated empirical studies of trophic interactions in the past decades, and have lead to important insights into the factors that control ecological communities. Despite the importance of food chain models in instigating ecological investigations, many empirical studies still show a strong deviation from the dynamics that food chain models predict. We present a theoretical framework that explains some of the discrepancies by showing that trophic interactions are likely to be strongly influenced by the spatial configuration of consumers and their resources. Differences in the spatial scale at which consumers and their resources function lead to uncoupling of the population dynamics of the interacting species, and may explain overexploitation and depletion of resource populations. We discuss how changed land use, likely the most prominent future stress on natural systems, may affect food web dynamics by interfering with the scale of interaction between consumers and their resource.
25622877|The carrying capacity of shellfish aquaculture is determined by the interaction of cultured species with the ecosystem, particularly food availability to suspension feeders. A multiple box dynamic ecosystem model was constructed to examine the carrying capacity for mussel (Mytilus edulis) aquaculture in Tracadie Bay, Prince of Edward Island, Canada. Criteria for carrying capacity were based on chlorophyll concentration. The model was run in two different years (1998 and 1999) in which time series for three points inside the bay and a point outside the bay were available. This data set allows spatial validation of the ecosystem model and assessment of its sensitivity to changes in boundary conditions. The model validation process indicated that the differential equations and parameters used in the simulation provided robust prediction of the ecological dynamics within the bay. Results verified that mussel biomass exerts top-down control of phytoplankton populations. The model indicates that conditions observed during 1999 are more sensitive to grazing pressure from aquaculture than was observed during 1998, highlighting the importance of inter-annual variability in carrying capacity of the bay. This result is important from a management perspective because it emphasizes application of a precautionary policy and prediction in regulation of aquaculture activity in the bay. Retrospective scenarios showed that although the bay could yield greater mussel biomass production, stress on the environment would lead the ecosystem outside of its natural range of variation. Despite the spatial simplicity employed in the present model, it provides substantial management capability as well as an ecosystem-oriented approach to shellfish aquaculture.
41507778|Lake ecosystems are nowadays often subjected to multi-stressors, such as eutrophication, climate change, and fish manipulations, the effects of which can be difficult to disentangle, not least from the usual short-term limnological time-series that are available. However, multi-proxy paleoecological approaches may offer such opportunities, especially in the study of remote island lakes characterized by being species poor and buffered somewhat against the recent climate change. We used a paleoecological multi-proxy approach to determine the relative importance of nutrient loading, meteorological forcing, and fish species introduction for recent lake ecosystem development in Lake Furnas on the island of So Miguel, the Azores. The lake was stocked with cyprinids in the late nineteenth century and recently also with piscivorous fish, and has been affected by increasing agricultural activities in its catchment. We analyzed marker pigments, cladoceran remains, and subfossil diatoms in a 46-cm core representing the last 40 years. Remains of large-bodied cladocerans were virtually absent until the introductions of piscivorous pike and pikeperch in 1980 and 1982, respectively, after which the zooplankton community composition changed abruptly. First Ceriodaphnia sp. appeared (ca. 1980), followed by Daphnia a few years later. Carotenoids from cyanobacteria (myxoxanthophyll, aphanizophyll) were regularly present in the lake sediment with a major shift occurring around 1994, from N-fixing to non-fixing groups. This shift coincided with the onset of anoxia in the lake water, evidenced by the presence of pigments from Chlorobiaceae (BChl-e homologues and isorenieratene), and with a rapid decrease in benthic-tychoplanktonic diatoms and an increase in cyanobacteria, chlorophytes, dinoflagellates, and cryptophytes. The composition of microbial and algal assemblages changed rapidly after Daphnia appearance, and the covariance between fish stocking, nutrient loading, and enhanced temperatures captured most of the variability in algae accumulation, and thus likely in lake primary production as well. Thus, lake production apparently did not respond strongly to specific changes in temperature, food-web structure, or nutrient input, but rather to the combined effects of all the three forcing mechanisms, emphasizing the role of multi-Stressors in lake ecosystem functioning. Our study demonstrates the sensitivity of these remote species-poor lakes to increased nutrient loading, introduction of non-native species, such as fish and climate change.
23328068|Tree species can affect the decomposition process through the quality of their leaf fall and through the species-specific conditions that they generate in their environment. We compared the relative importance of these effects in a 2-year experiment. Litterbags containing leaf litter of the winter-deciduous Quercus canariensis, the evergreen Q. suber and mixed litter were incubated beneath distinct plant covers. We measured litter carbon loss, 9 macro- and micronutrients and 18 soil chemical, physical and biological parameters of the incubation environment. Tree species affected decay dynamics through their litter quality and, to a lesser extent, through the induced environmental conditions. The deciduous litter showed a faster initial decomposition but left a larger fraction of slow decomposable biomass compared with the perennial litter; in contrast the deciduous environment impeded early decomposition while promoting further carbon loss in the latter decay stages. The interaction of these effects led to a negative litterenvironment interaction contradicting the home-field advantage hypothesis. Leaf litter N, Ca and Mn as well as soil N, P and soil moisture were the best predictors for decomposition rates. Litter N and Ca exerted counteractive effects in early versus late decay stages; Mn was the best predictor for the decomposition limit value, that is, the fraction of slowly decomposable biomass at the later stage of decomposition; P and soil moisture showed a constant and positive relation with carbon loss. The deciduous oak litter had a higher initial nutrient content and released its nutrients faster and in a higher proportion than the perennial oak litter, significantly increasing soil fertility beneath its canopy. Our findings provide further insights into the factors that control the early and late stages of the decomposition process and reveal potential mechanisms underlying tree species influence on litter decay rate, carbon accumulation and nutrient cycling.
3659063| Traditional biogeochemical theories suggest that ecosystem nitrogen retention is controlled by biotic N limitation, that stream N losses should increase with successional age, and that increasing N deposition will accelerate this process. These theories ignore the role of dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) as a mechanism of N loss. We examined patterns of organic and inorganic N export from sets of old-growth and historically (80-110 years ago) logged and burned watersheds in the northeastern US, a region of moderate, elevated N deposition. Stream nitrate concentrations were strongly seasonal, and mean ( SD) nitrate export from old-growth watersheds
3658608|Increases in the deposition of atmospheric nitrogen (N) influence N cycling in forest ecosystems and can result in negative consequences due to the leaching of nitrate into groundwaters. From December 1995 to February 1998, the Pan-European Programme for the Intensive and Continuous Monitoring of Forest Ecosystems measured forest conditions at a plot scale for conifer and broadleaf forests, including the performance of time series of soil solution chemistry. The influence of various ecosystem conditions on soil solution nitrate concentrations at these forest plots (n = 104) was then analyzed with a statistical model. Soil solution nitrate concentrations varied by season, and summer concentrations were approximately 25% higher than winter ones. Soil solution nitrate concentrations increased dramatically with throughfall (and bulk precipitation) N input for both broadleaf and conifer forests. However, at elevated levels of throughfall N input (more than
3658642|Measurement of nitrogen isotopic composition (
41505940|We quantified rates, sizes, and spatial properties of prevailing disturbance regimes in five tropical rain forest landscapes on a substrate-age gradient in Hawaii. By integrating measurements from airborne LiDAR with field studies and statistical modeling, we show that the structure and dynamics of these forests respond to processes that change during the development of ecosystems. On young substrates of 0.3 ky where forests are in primary succession and are limited by N, mean canopy height was 13 m and height decreases more than 1 m occurred in small, isolated events (powerlaw exponent = 1.69  0.02, n = 61 gaps ha). The proportion of the landscape affected by disturbance increased on high-fertility intermediateaged substrates of 5-65 ky and canopies were heterogeneous. Frequencies of height decreases more than 1 m were n = 14, 18, and 30 gaps ha corresponding to power-law exponents of 2.188  0.02, 2.220  0.03, and 1.982  0.02 on substrates of 5, 20, and 65 ky. There was a substantial difference between forests on a 150 ky substrate and sites of 5-65 ky; trees on the older substrate formed patchworks of stunted cloud-forest and stands of taller-stature trees. The frequency of recent disturbance events more than 1 m was n = 48 gaps ha, corresponding to a power-law exponent of 1.638  0.01. Across the substrate-age gradient, the proportion of each landscape that decreased in height by more than 1 m was 0.16, 0.40, 0.41, 0.36, and 0.17, respectively. These findings demonstrate that substrate age and processes associated with ecosystem development can mediate the rates, sizes, and spatial characteristics of disturbance regimes on forested landscapes, and point toward the necessity of large-area samples to obtain robust estimates of natural dynamics.
40296374|Soil respiration constitutes the second largest flux of carbon (C) between terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere. This study provides a synthesis of soil respiration
41413042|Climate change scenarios predict simultaneously increase in temperature, altered precipitation patterns and elevated atmospheric CO concentration, which will affect key ecosystem processes and plant growth and species interactions. In a large-scale experiment, we investigated the effects of in situ exposure to elevated atmospheric CO concentration, increased temperature and prolonged drought periods on the plant biomass in a dry heathland (Brandbjerg, Denmark). Results after 3 years showed that drought reduced the growth of the two dominant species Deschampsia flexuosa and Calluna vulgaris. However, both species recovered quickly after rewetting and the drought had no significant effect on annual aboveground biomass production. We did not observe any effects of increased temperature. Elevated CO stimulated the biomass production for D. flexuosa in one out of three years but did not influence the standing biomass for either D. flexuosa or the ecosystem as more litter was produced. Treatment combinations showed little interactions on the measured parameters and in particular elevated CO did not counterbalance the drought effect on plant growth, as we had anticipated. The plant community did not show any significant responses to the imposed climate changes and we conclude that the two heathland species, on a short time scale, will be relatively resistant to the changes in climatic conditions.
43677507|Reactive nitrogen (N) and ozone (O) are the most widespread atmospheric pollutants with significant implications for conservation of semi-natural vegetation; their combined effects have, however, not been tested in long-term field experiments. To investigate these effects on the species composition of a subalpine Geo-Montani-Nardetum pasture, 180 turf monoliths were exposed for seven years to five N loads (0, +5, +10, +25, +50 kg N ha y) in combination with three O levels (ambient, 1.2 or 1.6 ambient concentration) in a free-air fumigation experiment at 2000 m a.s.l. in the Central Alps. Aboveground biomass of grasses, forbs, sedges, and legumes, as well as individual species abundance was recorded annually. N addition caused strong changes in community composition and slightly reduced Shannon diversity: Sedges (Carex sempervirens and Car ex ornithopoda) tripled their fractional biomass at the expense of legumes (Trifolium alpinum), grasses (Agrostis capillaris, Briza media, Festuca spp.), and forbs, the latter of which responded inconsistently. Compositional changes were significant with +5 kg ha y; at all levels of N, however, changes ceased after 5 years. Elevated O and the combined O  N exposure had no effect on functional group productivity. Overall the results reveal high N sensitivity of the subalpine grassland, but low sensitivity to O, singly or in combination with N. Thus, in the longer term any input of N above the current ambient deposition may cause a shift in the plant community composition of these ecosystems which are considered hotspots for biodiversity.
3658685|Arthur George Tansley's paper "The Temporal Genetic Series as a Means of Approach to Philosophy," published here for the first time, provides the philosophical context for the development of his ecosystem theory. His rejection of idealist reasoning, his concern with ethics, and his long standing interest in Freudian psychology as well as mechanistic reasoning comprised the intellectual underpinnings for his thinking on systems and ecosystem theory.
40296326|Experimental studies of how global changes and human activities affect plant diversity often focus on broad measures of diversity and discuss the implications of these changes for ecosystem function. We examined how experimental warming and grazing affected species within plant groups of direct importance to Tibetan pastoralists: medicinal plants used by humans and palatable plants consumed by livestock. Warming resulted in species losses from both the medicinal and palatable plant groups; however, differential relative vulnerability to warming occurred. With respect to the percent of warming-induced species losses, the overall plant community lost 27%, medicinal plants lost 21%, and non-medicinal plants lost 40% of species. Losses of palatable and non-palatable species were similar to losses in the overall plant community. The deep-rootedness of medicinal plants resulted in lowered sensitivity to warming, whereas the shallow-rootedness of non-medicinal plants resulted in greater sensitivity to warming; the variable rooting depth of palatable and non-palatable plants resulted in an intermediate response to warming. Predicting the vulnerability of plant groups to human activities can be enhanced by knowledge of plant traits, their response to specific drivers, and their distribution within plant groups. Knowledge of the mechanisms through which a driver operates, and the evolutionary interaction of plants with that driver, will aid predictions. Future steps to protect ecosystem services furnished by medicinal and palatable plants will be required under the novel stress of a warmer climate. Grazing may be an important tool in maintaining some of these services under future warming.
40296420|The quantities and spatial distribution of nutrients in savanna ecosystems are affected by many factors, of which fire, herbivory and symbiotic N-fixation are particularly important. We measured soil nitrogen (N) pools and the relative abundance of N and phosphorus (P) in herbaceous vegetation in five vegetation types in a humid savanna in Tanzania. We also performed a factorial fertilization experiment to investigate which nutrients most limit herbaceous production. N pools in the top 10 cm of soil were low at sites where fires were frequent, and higher in areas with woody legume encroachment, or high herbivore excretion. Biomass production was co-limited by N and P at sites that were frequently burnt or heavily grazed by native herbivores. In contrast, aboveground production was limited by N in areas receiving large amounts of excreta from livestock. N 2 -fixation by woody legumes did not lead to P-limitation, but did increase the availability of N relative to P. We conclude that the effects of fire, herbivory and N 2 -fixation upon soil N pools and N: P-stoichiometry in savanna ecosystems are, to a large extent, predictable.
25053846|Ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B, 280-320-nm wavelengths) doses were estimated for 1024 wetlands in six national parks: Acadia (Acadia), Glacier (Glacier), Great Smoky Mountains (Smoky), Olympic (Olympic), Rocky Mountain (Rocky), and Sequoia/Kings Canyon (Sequoia). Estimates were made using ground-based UV-B data (Brewer spectrophotometers), solar radiation models, GIS tools, field characterization of vegetative features, and quantification of DOC concentration and spectral absorbance. UV-B dose estimates were made for the summer solstice, at a depth of 1 cm in each wetland. The mean dose across all wetlands and parks was 19.3 W-h
3658723|We asked whether
3658884|We report a multiple-scale analysis of forest fragmentation based on 30-m
3658810|Ecosystem resistance to the impacts of diverse human insults depends on the replacement of sensitive species by ones more tolerant of the stressor. Here we present evidence from a whole-lake acidification experiment (Lake 302S, Experimental Lakes Area, Canada) that resistance and species compensation decline with increasing trophic level. Diverse and fast-growing algal and rotifer assemblages with high dispersal potentials showed significant compensatory species dynamics, resulting in the maintenance of total biomass despite 30%-80% declines in species richness. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that significant compensatory algal and rotifer dynamics were best explained by differential species tolerances of acidified chemical conditions coupled with release from resource limitation and predation. However, less diverse cladoceran, copepod, and fish assemblages showed significant declines in total biomass and weak species compensation with loss of species during acidification. In comparison, algal and zooplankton species dynamics remained relatively synchronized in a nearby unperturbed reference lake (Lake 239) during the experiment. As a result, Lake 302S showed limited ecosystem resistance to anthropogenic acidification. Therefore, we hypothesize that lost species will increase the susceptibility of acidified lakes to the adverse impacts of other environmental stressors (for example, climate warming, stratospheric ozone depletion, invasive species). Consequently, the ecosystem stability of boreal lakes is expected to decline as global change proceeds.
25053852|Agronomists, environmentalists, land managers, policy makers and development agents who make decisions at different levels (plot, farm, ecosystem, landscape, ecoregion, country) increasingly demand scientific information to understand cross-level links and interactions in systems that behave hierarchically. The purpose of this work is to study cross-scale relations and interactions in agricultural ecosystems of the Argentine Pampas. Based on public censuses and surveys from 1960 to 1996, data on crops cultivation, fossil energy (FE) consumption and energy productivity were used for the analysis. The whole region was divided into eight increasing geographic scales, and the impact of one scale on the broader ones was assessed through a simple analysis of energy productivity. Regression analysis was used to identify cross-scale linear slopes and to determine cross-scale interactions. We assume that non-parallel slopes in different years are attributable to cross-scale interactions. Given that the results show highly significant differences among inter-year slopes, we must accept that cross-scale interactions have occurred. Beyond any random behavior, it seems quite possible that decisions made at smaller scales may have a demonstrable effect on broader scales. Specific research is needed to elucidate key cause-effect relationships among scales. In principle, the possible interaction between intensification factors (for example, FE consumption) and spatial scales is a plausible hypothesis to be tested in the study area.
3658859|Scale-specific patterns of resource distribution on landscapes entrain attributes of resident animal communities such that species body-mass distributions are organized into distinct aggregations. Species within each aggregation respond to resources over the same range of scale. This discontinuous pattern has predictive power: invasive species and extinct or declining species in landscapes subject to human transformation tend to be located at the edge of body-mass aggregations (P < 0.01), which may be transition zones between distinct ranges of scale. Location at scale breaks affords species great opportunity, but also potential crisis.
41505897|Spatial heterogeneity in soils is often characterized by the presence of resource-enriched patches ranging in size from a single shrub to wooded thickets. If the patches persist long enough, the primary constraint on production may transition from one limiting environmental factor to another. Tree islands that are scattered throughout the Florida Everglades basin comprise nutrient-enriched patches, or resource islands, in P-limited oligotrophic marshes. We used principal component analysis and multiple regressions to characterize the belowground environment (soil, hydrology) of one type of tree island, hardwood hammocks, and examined its relationship with the three structural variables (basal area, biomass, and canopy height) indicative of site productivity. Hardwood hammocks in the southern Everglades grow on two distinct soil types. The first, consisting of shallow, organic, relatively low-P soils, is common in the seasonally flooded Marl Prairie landscape. In contrast, hammocks on islands embedded in long hydroperiod marsh have deeper, alkaline, mineral soils with extremely high p concentrations. However, this edaphic variation does not translate simply into differences in forest structure and production. Relative water depth was unrelated to all measures of forest structure and so was soil P, but the non-carbonate component of the mineral soil fraction exhibited a strong positive relationship with canopy height. The development of P-enriched forest resource islands in the Everglades marsh is accompanied by the buildup of a mineral soil; however, limitations on growth in mature islands appear to differ substantively from those that dominate incipient stages in the transformation from marsh to forest.
3658671|Multinomial logistic models of land use/land cover in montane Costa Rica and landscape pattern analysis showed that relative to agriculture, secondary forest occurred closer to old-growth forest, further from roads, in forest reserves, and at higher elevations. Collinearity between explanatory variables yielded simple multivariate models; proportion of surrounding old growth predicted secondary forest most accurately. An old-growth matrix [mean patch size (MPS) 24.5 ha], located mainly within protected areas, dominated elevations greater than 2500 m. A matrix of agriculture (MPS 23.5 ha), with smaller patches (approximately 9 ha) of secondary forest and old growth, dominated elevations from 1500 to 2500 m. Combining secondary forest with old growth decreased forest patch number and increased MPS from 7.3 to 37.1 ha. I concluded that: (a) secondary forest pattern is nonrandom, so ancillary data will aid its mapping with satellite imagery. The variables elevation, agriculture distance, road distance, and population density distinguished secondary forest from old growth with 74% accuracy; (b) socioeconomic and biological forces probably interact to create these secondary forest patterns; and (c) the strong association between secondary forest and old growth supports the concept that tropical forest recovery depends on the landscape structure of remnant forest.
40603416|Dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) has recently been recognized as an important component of terrestrial N cycling, especially under N-limited conditions; however, the effect of increased atmospheric N deposition on DON production and loss from forest soils remains controversial. Here we report DON and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) losses from forest soils receiving very high longterm ambient atmospheric N deposition with or without additional experimental N inputs, to investigate DON biogeochemistry under N-saturated conditions. We studied an old-growth forest, a young pine forest, and a young mixed pine/broadleaf forest in subtropical southern China. All three forests have previously been shown to have high nitrate (NO207B2083) leaching losses, with the highest loss found in the old-growth forest. We hypothesized that DON leaching loss would be forest specific and that the strongest response to experimental N input would be in the N-saturated old-growth forest. Our results showed that under ambient deposition (35-50 kg N ha207B2071 y207B2071 as throughfall input), DON leaching below the major rooting zone in all three forests was high (6.5-16.9 kg N ha207B2071 y207B2071).DON leaching increased 35-162% following 2.5 years of experimental input of 50-150 kg N ha207B2071 y207B2071.The fertilizer-driven increase of DON leaching comprised 4-17% of the added N. A concurrent increase in DOC loss was observed only in the pine forest, even though DOC: DON ratios declined in all three forests. Our data showed that DON accounted for 23-38% of total dissolved N in leaching, highlighting that DON could be a significant pathway of N loss from forests moving toward N saturation. The most pronounced N treatment effect on DON fluxes was not found in the old-growth forest that had the highest DON loss under ambient conditions. DON leaching was highly correlated with NO207B2083leaching in all three forests. We hypothesize that abiotic incorporation of excess NO207B2083(through chemically reactive NO207B2082) into soil organic matter and the consequent production of N-enriched dissolved organic matter is a major mechanism for the consistent and large DON loss in the N-saturated subtropical forests of southern China.
3659069|In the context of ecosystem change and significant sociocultural, political, and institutional complexity, ecosystem managers and scientists (natural and social) need to be sensitive to processes of knowledge construction and legitimization and to the influence that explanations, or "narratives," of change and complexity have on the policy process. Using the Banawa-Marawola uplands of Central Sulawesi, Indonesia, as an example, this review shows how narratives of change and complexity linking the subsistence agroecological practices of upland communities, deforestation, and biodiversity loss, and the policy interventions that result, emerge within several institutionalized and embedded perspectives, including (a) an entrenched political and administrative discourse on modernization and development in Indonesia, (b) a subsequent emphasis on the culturalization or civilization of upland groups considered backward or primitive, and (c) linear or equilibrium explanations of upland change linking population growth and environmental decline. As this review suggests, integrative analyses require historically sensitive frameworks that take into account the sociocultural, politicoinstitutional, and ecological dimensions of change and complexity. Such frameworks are more likely to succeed in challenging the stabilizing assumptions about the role of local people in ecosystem modification, particularly in regions where there is a long history of nature-society interaction.
23501445|One of the many ecological processes expected to undergo alteration due to global change is the decomposition of organic matter, with little known concerning the effects that changing disturbance regimes may have. Fire, a critical process in many habitats, is expected to become more common. We measured the decomposition rates of four grass species that differed in litter quality, investigating them under different fire regimes across a savanna rainfall gradient in South Africa. We also collected data on the abundance and activity of fungus-growing termites and recorded measurements of temperature and canopy cover. Overall, decomposition rate followed global models, increasing under warmer and wetter conditions. Litter quality was also significant with higher quality grasses decomposing faster; however, this effect was less pronounced than expected. Fire regimes did not have a consistent effect on decomposition rate along the rainfall gradient. In the most arid savanna type examined, fire had no effect, whereas in the intermediate rainfall savanna burning increased decomposition rate under higher levels of fungus-growing termite activity. In the wetter savannas, fire slowed decomposition, possibly through modification of vegetation structure and potential effects on other invertebrates. Our results demonstrate that grass decomposition in African savannas varies significantly along precipitation gradients, with different factors becoming influential in different habitats. Importantly, we demonstrate that fire does not always act to slow decomposition and that it interacts with other factors to influence the process. These findings have important implications for decomposition in the light of global change models that predict wetter climates and a higher frequency of fires for southern African savannas.
41505991|Energy (carbon) flows and element cycling are fundamental, interlinked principles explaining ecosystem processes. The element balance in components, interactions and processes in ecosystems (ecological stoichiometry; ES) has been used to study trophic dynamics and element cycling. This study extends ES beyond its usual limits of C, N, and P and examines the distribution and transfer of 48 elements in 16 components of a coastal ecosystem, using empirical and modeling approaches. Major differences in elemental composition were demonstrated between abiotic and biotic compartments and trophic levels due to differences in taxonomy and ecological function. Mass balance modeling for each element, based on carbon fluxes and element: C ratios, was satisfactory for 92.5% of all element-compartment combinations despite the complexity of the ecosystem model. Model imbalances could mostly be explained by ecological processes, such as increased element uptake during the spring algal bloom. Energy flows in ecosystems can thus realistically estimate element transfer in the environment, as modeled uptake is constrained by metabolic rates and elements available. The dataset also allowed us to examine one of the key concepts of ES, homeostasis, for more elements than is normally possible. The relative concentrations of elements in organisms compared to their resources did not provide support for the theory that autotrophs show weak homeostasis and showed that the strength of homeostasis by consumers depends on the type of element (for example, macroelement, trace element). Largescale, multi-element ecosystem studies are essential to evaluate and advance the framework of ES and the importance of ecological processes.
23501487|Treeline represents not only an important physiognomic boundary but also an important transition between disjunct mesoclimates and environmental limitations on establishment of tree species. The circumboreal treeline is controlled by some still to be understood physiological mechanism dependent on air temperatures, though younger life stages are increasingly influenced by numerous other biotic and abiotic factors at finer spatial and temporal scales. The goal of this study was to evaluate environmental and reproductive characteristics across treeline around Churchill, Manitoba, and to determine which factors are most important for successful seedling establishment by tamarack, white spruce and black spruce. We examined mid-winter snowpack, soil characteristics, seed viability, seedling establishment, and dominant vegetation at sites within forest and at treeline. Growing season was longer at treeline due to less snow accumulation, though soil temperatures were more variable throughout the year when compared with forest. Conifer seed germination was greater than 88% for most of the region and total seedling density was relatively consistent between sites. Seedlings were negatively associated with other plants within the forest, but low stature vegetation seemed to facilitate establishment at treeline. The associations between seedling establishment and habitat availability observed at several sites suggest that treeline advance in the Churchill area could be contingent on the facilitative effects of plants at and beyond treeline. The results of this study support the premise that fine-scale biotic and abiotic patterns and processes such as snowpack and facilitation by neighboring vegetation certainly cannot be overlooked in analyses of patterns at treeline in a changing Subarctic.
40792949|Both climate warming and atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition are predicted to alter plant productivity and species composition over the next century. However, the extent to which their effects may interact is unclear. For example, over winter, the effects of warming on soil freezing dynamics may promote ecosystem N losses, thereby limiting increases in productivity in response to warming, yet these losses may be compensated for by increased N deposition. We measured plant production and species composition in response to warming (winter-only or year-round) and N addition in a temperate old field. We used shoot allometric relationships to estimate aboveground production non-destructively and sampled root biomass destructively throughout two growing seasons. We also used spectral data (normalized difference vegetation indexNDVI) to examine the treatment effects on the timing of plant green-up and senescence. In 2007, which featured an exceptionally dry summer, there were no treatment effects on plant growth. However, in 2008, warming (both winter-only and year-round) and  addition combined approximately doubled aboveground productivity, and these effects were additive. Warming increased root biomass, but no N effect was evident. Conversely, N addition increased NDVI, but NDVI was unresponsive to warming. Overall, our results do not support the hypothesis that warming-induced changes to soil freezing dynamics limit plant productivity in our system. On the contrary, they demonstrate that winter warming alone can increase primary productivity to the same extent as year-round warming, and that this effect may interact very strongly with interannual variation in precipitation.
3658947| There is growing concern that available base cation pools in soil are declining in eastern North America and that some forests are approaching nitrogen (N) saturation due to the combined effects of acid deposition and harvesting. To assess these concerns, elemental mass balances for calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), potassium (K), and N were conducted over a 17-year period in a representative mixed hardwood forest (HP4) in the Muskoka-Haliburton region in central Ontario, Canada. On average, 76% of the N measured in bulk deposition, which is a conservative estimate of total N deposition, was retained in HP4, with tree uptake accounting for over half of the retained N. Year-to-year variations in annual NO
40603660|A Holocene sediment sequence from Lake Seukokjaure, a subarctic lake at tree-line in northern Sweden, was analyzed to assess major changes in the structure and functioning of the aquatic ecosystem in response to climate change and tree-line dynamics. The compiled multi-proxy data, including sedimentary pigments, diatoms, chironomids, pollen, biogenic silica (BSi), carbon (C), nitrogen (N) elemental and stableisotope records, and total lake-water organic carbon (TOC) concentration inferred from near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), suggest that the Holocene development of Lake Seukokjaure was closely coupled to changes in terrestrial vegetation with associated soil development of the catchment, input of allochthonous organic carbon, and changes in the light regime of the lake. A relatively productive state just after dglaciation around 9700 to 7800 cal years BP was followed by a slight long-term decrease in primary production. The onset of the local tree-line retreat around 3200 cal years BP was accompanied by more diverse and altered chironomid and diatom assemblages and indications of destabilized soils in the catchment by an increase in variability and absolute values of C. An abrupt drop in the C/N ratio around 1750 cal years BP was coupled to changes in the internal lake structure, in combination with changes in light and nutrient conditions, resulting in a shift in the phototrophic community from diatom dominance to increased influence of chlorophytes, likely dominated by an aquatic moss community. Thus, this study emphasizes the importance of indirect effects of climate change on tree-line lake ecosystems and complex interactions of in-lake processes during the Holocene.
40928218|Associations among the few tree species in the North American boreal landscape are the result of complex interactions between climate, biota, and historical disturbances during the Holocene. The closed-crown boreal forest of eastern North America is subdivided into two ecological regions having distinct tree species associations; the balsam fir zone and the black spruce zone, south and north of 49N, respectively. Subalpine old-growth stands dominated by trees species typical of the balsam fir forest flora (either balsam fir or white spruce) are found on high plateaus, some of which are isolated within the black spruce zone. Here we identified the ecological processes responsible for the distinct forest associations in the subalpine belt across the eastern boreal landscape. Extensive radiocarbon dating, species composition, and size structure analyses indicated contrasted origin and dynamics of the subalpine forests between the two ecological regions. In the black spruce zone, the subalpine belt is a mosaic of post-fire white spruce or balsam fir stands coexisting at similar elevation on the high plateaus. With increasing time without wildfire, the subalpine forests become structurally similar to the balsam fir forest of the fir zone. These results concur with the hypothesis that the subalpine forests of this area are protected remnants of an historical northern expansion of the fir zone. Its replacement by the fire-prone black spruce forest flora was caused by recurrent fires. In the subalpine belt of the fir zone, no fire was recorded for several millennia. Harsh climate at high altitude is the primary factor explaining white spruce dominance over balsam fir forming a distinct subalpine white spruce belt above the balsam fir dominated forest.
3658702|Stream ecosystems consist of several subsystems that are spatially distributed concentrically, analogous to the elements of a simple telescope. Subsystems include the central surface stream, vertically and laterally arrayed saturated sediments (hyporheic and parafluvial zones), and the most distal element, the riparian zone. These zones are hydrologically connected; thus water and its dissolved and suspended load move through all of these subsystems as it flows downstream. In any given subsystem, chemical transformations result in a change in the quantity of materials in transport. Processing length is the length of subsystem required to "process" an amount of substrate equal to advective input. Long processing lengths reflect low rates of material cycling. Processing length provides the length dimension of each cylindrical element of the telescope and is specific to subsystem (for example, the surface stream), substrate (for instance, nitrate), and process (denitrification, for example). Disturbance causes processing length to increase. Processing length decreases during succession following disturbance. The whole stream-corridor ecosystem consists of several nested cylindrical elements that extend and retract, much as would a telescope, in response to disturbance regime. This telescoping ecosystem model (TEM) can improve understanding of material retention in running water systems; that is, their "nutrient filtration" capacity. We hypothesize that disturbance by flooding alters this capacity in proportion to both intensity of disturbance and to the relative effect of disturbance on each subsystem. We would expect more distal subsystems (for example, the riparian zone) to show the highest resistance to floods. In contrast, we predict that postflood recovery of functions such as material processing (that is, resilience) will be highest in central elements and decrease laterally. Resistance and resilience of subsystems are thus both inversely correlated and spatially separated. We further hypothesize that cross-linkages between adjacent subsystems will enhance resilience of the system as a whole. Whole-ecosystem retention, transformation, and transport are thus viewed as a function of subsystem extent, lateral and vertical linkage, and disturbance regime.
27823673|The effects of immediately adjacent agricultural fertilization on nitrogen (N) at upland forest edges have not been previously studied. Our objective was to determine whether N from fertilized agriculture enters northern Idaho forest edges and significantly impacts their N status. We stratified 27 forest edge sampling sites by the N fertilization history of the adjacent land: current, historical, and never. We measured N stable isotopes (15N), N concentration (%N), and carbon-to-nitrogen (C/N) ratios of conifer tree and deciduous shrub foliage, shrub roots, and bulk soil, as well as soil available N. Conifer foliage 15N and %N, shrub root 15N, and bulk soil N were greater and soil C/N ratios lower (P < 0.05) at forest edges than interiors, regardless of adjacent fertilization history. For shrub foliage and bulk soil 15N, shrub root %N and C/N ratios, and soil nitrate, significant edgeinterior differences were limited to forests bordering lands that had been fertilized currently or historically. Foliage and soil 15N were most enriched at forest edges bordering currently fertilized agriculture, suggesting that these forests are receiving N fertilizer inputs. Shrub root %N was greater at forest edges bordering currently fertilized agriculture than at those bordering grasslands that had never been fertilized (P = 0.01). Elevated N at forest edges may increase vegetation growth, as well as susceptibility to disease and insects. The higher N we found at forest edges bordering agriculture may also be found elsewhere, given similar agricultural practices in other regions and the prevalence of forest fragmentation.
23501295|The frequency and magnitude of drought is expected to increase in the US Great Plains under future climate regimes. Although semiarid systems are considered highly resistant to water limitation, novel drought events could alter linkages among biogeochemical processes, and result in new feedbacks that influence the timescale of ecosystem recovery. We examined changes in carbon and nitrogen cycling in the last 2 years of an 11-year drought manipulation in the shortgrass steppe, and under the first 2 years of recovery from drought. We measured plant production, plant tissue chemistry, soil trace gas flux, and soil inorganic nitrogen dynamics to test the extent that this magnitude of drought altered carbon and nitrogen fluxes and how these changes affected post-drought dynamics. We found that soil inorganic nitrogen was up to five times higher under severe drought than under control conditions, but that this nitrogen may not have been accessible to plants and microbial communities during drought due to diffusion limitations. Drought plots had higher N 2 O flux when they received equal rainfall pulses, showing that this accumulated N may be vulnerable to loss. In addition, plants in drought plots had higher tissue nitrogen for 2 years following drought. These results show that decadal-length droughts that may occur under future precipitation regimes are likely to alter ecosystem properties through interactions among precipitation, vegetation, and N cycling. Shifts in plant N, vulnerability of nitrogen to loss, and rainfall use efficiency that we observed are likely to affect the recovery time of semiarid systems subject to droughts of this magnitude.
40296312|Agricultural areas are declining in many areas of the world, often because socio-economic and political changes make agriculture less profitable. The transition from centralized to market-oriented economies in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union after 1989 represented major economic and political changes, yet the resulting rates and spatial pattern of post-socialist farmland abandonment remain largely unknown. Remote sensing offers unique opportunities to map farmland abandonment, but automated assessments are challenging because phenology and crop types often vary substantially. We developed a change detection method based on support vector machines (SVM) to map farmland abandonment in the border triangle of Poland, Slovakia, and Ukraine in the Carpathians from Landsat TM/ETM+ images from 1986, 1988, and 2000. Our SVM-based approach yielded an accurate change map (overall accuracy = 90.9%; kappa = 0.82), underpinning the potential of SVM to map complex land-use change processes such as farmland abandonment. Farmland abandonment was widespread in the study area (16.1% of the farmland used in socialist times), likely due to decreasing profitability of agriculture after 1989. We also found substantial differences in abandonment among the countries (13.9% in Poland, 20.7% in Slovakia, and 13.3% in Ukraine), and between previously collectivized farmland and farmland that remained private during socialism in Poland. These differences are likely due to differences in socialist land ownership patterns, post-socialist land reform strategies, and rural population density.
3658936|To elucidate the impact of high nitrogen (N) deposition on intact bog vegetation, as affected by phosphorus (P) availability, we conducted a 4-year fertilization experiment with N and P at six sites, one with moderate N deposition and five with high N deposition. During the growing season, N
25053799|This study examines the effect of four tree species on nitrogen (N) retention within forested catchments of the Catskill Mountains, New York (NY). We conducted a 300-day
3658889|Partial pressure (p CO
40792952|Nitrogen (N) deposition and land management practices can have profound impacts on the structure and functioning of alpine ecosystems occupying headwaters of major river systems. Such impacts have the potential to result in loss of  to surface waters and acidification, both of which could have serious consequences for water quality and downstream habitats. We present results from a 6-year study of Calluna-dominated alpine heathland in Scotland, designed to assess the interactive effects of  addition (0 and 50 kg N ha y), simulated accidental fire and grazing on soil solution chemistry. Both N addition and to a lesser extent burning had significant effects on soil solution chemistry, whereas grazing had no significant impact. Soil solution nitrate (NO) and ammonium (NH) concentration showed a rapid response to  addition and  addition also resulted in acidification of soil solution. A 'flush' of base cations, which normally buffer soil from the acid effects of deposited N, accompanied the excess  released from the soil to soil solution. The  treatment had no effect on dissolved organic carbon (DOC), however, concentrations were significantly (14%) lower at the burned plots. In addition to treatment effects, temporal analysis of data from control plots demonstrated that soil solution chemistry was influenced by extremes in weather conditions. Peak NO concentrations were observed in soil solution following the cold winter of 2000-2001 when there were frequent freeze/thaw events. A large pulse of base cations was lost from the soil following the dry year of 2003. These weather-induced responses potentially exacerbate the treatment effects observed in this study.
3658638|We built empirical models to estimate the effects of land cover on stream ecosystems in the mid-Atlantic region (USA) and to evaluate the spatial scales over which such models are most effective. Predictive variables included land cover in the watershed, in the streamside corridor, and near the study site, and the number and location of dams and point sources in the watershed. Response variables were annual nitrate flux; species richness of fish, benthic macroinvertebrates, and aquatic plants; and cover of aquatic plants and riparian vegetation. All data were taken from publicly available databases, mostly over the Internet. Land cover was significantly correlated with all ecological response variables. Modeled R
40296304|The future capacity of forest ecosystems to sequester atmospheric carbon is likely to be influenced by CO-mediated shifts in nutrient cycling through changes in litter chemistry, and by interactions with pollutants like O. We evaluated the independent and interactive effects of elevated CO (560 1 1) and O (55 nl 11) on leaf litter decomposition in trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) and paper birch (Betula papyrifera) at the Aspen free air CO enrichment (FACE) site (Wisconsin, USA). Fumigation treatments consisted of replicated ambient, +CO, +O, and +CO +O FACE rings. We followed mass loss and litter chemistry over 23 months, using reciprocally transplanted litterbags to separate substrate quality from environment effects. Aspen decayed more slowly than birch across all treatment conditions, and changes in decomposition dynamics of both species were driven by shifts in substrate quality rather than by fumigation environment. Aspen litter produced under elevated CO decayed more slowly than litter produced under ambient CO, and this effect was exacerbated by elevated O. Similarly, birch litter produced under elevated CO also decayed more slowly than litter produced under ambient CO. In contrast to results for aspen, however, elevated O accelerated birch decay under ambient CO, but decelerated decay under enriched CO. Changes in decomposition rates (k-values) were due to CO-and O-mediated shifts in litter quality, particularly levels of carbohydrates, nitrogen, and tannins. These results suggest that in early-successional forests of the future, elevated concentrations of CO will likely reduce leaf litter decomposition, although the magnitude of effect will vary among species and in response to interactions with tropospheric O.
27823676|Large inputs of atmospheric N from dry deposition accumulate on vegetation and soil surfaces of southern Californian chaparral and coastal sage scrub (CSS) ecosystems during the late-summer and early-fall and become available as a pulse following winter rainfall; however, the fate of this dry season atmospheric N addition is unknown. To assess the potential for dry season atmospheric N inputs to be incorporated into soil and/or vegetation N pools, an in situ N addition experiment was initiated in a post-fire chaparral and a mature CSS stand where 10  10 m plots were exposed to either ambient N deposition (control) or ambient +50 kg N ha1 (added N) added as NH4NO3 during a single application in October 2003. After 1 year of N addition, plots exposed to added N had significantly higher accumulation of extractable inorganic N (NH4N + NO3N) on ion exchange resins deployed in the 010 cm mineral soil layer and higher soil extractable N in the subsurface (3040 cm) mineral soil than plots exposed to ambient N. Chaparral and CSS shrubs exposed to added N also exhibited a significant increase in tissue N concentration and a decline in the tissue C:N ratio, and added N significantly altered the shrub tissue 15N natural abundance. Leaching of inorganic N to 1 m below the soil surface was on average 23 times higher in the added N plots, but large within treatment variability cause these differences to be statistically insignificant. Although a large fraction of the added N could not be accounted for in the shrub and soil N pools investigated, these observations suggest that dry season N inputs can significantly and rapidly alter N availability and shrub tissue chemistry in Mediterranean-type chaparral and CSS shrublands of southern California.
23328057|Increased fire activity within boreal forests could affect global terrestrial carbon (C) stocks by decreasing stand age or altering tree recruitment, leading to patterns of forest regrowth that differ from those of pre-fire stands. To improve our understanding of post-fire C accumulation patterns within boreal forests, we evaluated above- and belowground C pools within 17 Cajander larch (Larix cajanderi) stands of northeastern Siberia that varied in both years since fire and stand density. Early-successional stands (<20-year old) exhibited low larch recruitment, and consequently, low density, aboveground larch biomass, and aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP tree ). Mid-successional stands (21- to 70-year old) were even-aged with considerable variability in stand density. High-density mid-successional stands had 21 times faster rates of ANPP tree than low-density stands (252 vs. 12 g C m -2 y -1 ) and 26 times more C in aboveground larch biomass (2,186 vs. 85 g C m -2 ). Density had little effect on total soil C pools. During late-succession (>70-year old), aboveground larch biomass, ANPP tree , and soil organic layer C pools increased with stand age. These stands were low density and multi-aged, containing both mature trees and new recruits. The rapid accumulation of aboveground larch biomass in high-density, mid-successional stands allowed them to obtain C stocks similar to those in much older low-density stands (8,000 g C m -2 ). If fire frequency increases without altering stand density, landscape-level C storage could decline, but if larch density also increases, large aboveground C pools within high-density stands could compensate for a shorter successional cycle.
23253735|Atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition is altering biogeochemical cycling in forests and interconnected lakes of the northeastern US, and may shift nutrient limitation from N toward other essential elements, such as phosphorus (P). Whether this shift is occurring relative to N deposition gradients across the northeastern US has not been investigated. We used datasets for the northeastern US and the Adirondack sub-region to evaluate whether P limitation is increasing where N deposition is high at two geographic scales, based on N:P mass ratios. Using a model-selection approach, we determined that foliar N for dominant tree species and lake dissolved inorganic N (DIN) increased coincident with increasing N deposition, independent of relationships between foliar N or lake DIN and precipitation or temperature. Foliar P also increased with N deposition across the northeastern US for seven of eight deciduous species, but changed less across the Adirondacks. Foliar N:P therefore declined at the highest levels of N deposition for most deciduous species across the region (remaining nearly constant for most conifers and increasing only for black cherry and hemlock), but increased across all species in the Adirondacks. Ratios between DIN and total P (DIN:TP) in lakes were unrelated to N deposition regionally but increased across the Adirondacks. Thus, nutrient limitation patterns shifted from N toward P for dominant trees, and further toward P for predominantly P-limited lakes, at the sub-regional but not regional scale. For the northeastern US overall, accumulated N deposition may be insufficient to drive nutrient limitation from N toward P; alternatively, elements other than P (for example, calcium, magnesium) may become limiting as N accumulates. The consistent Adirondack foliar and lake response could provide early indication of shifts toward P limitation within the northeastern US, and together with regional patterns, suggests that foliar chemistry could be a predictor of lake chemistry in the context of N deposition across the region.
40792953|A large proportion of northern peatlands consists of Sphagnum-dominated ombrotrophic bogs. In these bogs, peat mosses (Sphagnum) and vascular plants occur in an apparent stable equilibrium, thereby sustaining the carbon sink function of the bog ecosystem. How global warming and increased nitrogen (N) deposition will affect the species composition in bog vegetation is still unclear. We performed a transplantation experiment in which mesocosms with intact vegetation were transplanted southward from north Sweden to northeast Germany along a transect of four bog sites, in which both temperature and N deposition increased. In addition, we monitored undisturbed vegetation in control plots at the four sites of the latitudinal gradient. Four growing seasons after transplantation, ericaceous dwarf shrubs had become much more abundant when transplanted to the warmest site which also had highest N deposition. As a result ericoid aboveground biomass in the transplanted mesocosms increased most at the southernmost site, this site also had highest ericoid biomass in the undisturbed vegetation. The two dominant Sphagnum species showed opposing responses when transplanted southward; Sphagnum balticum height increment decreased, whereas S. fuscum height increment increased when transplanted southward. Sphagnum production did not differ significantly among the transplanted mesocosms, but was lowest in the southernmost control plots. The dwarf shrub expansion and increased N concentrations in plant tissues we observed, point in the direction of a positive feedback toward vascular plant-dominance suppressing peat-forming Sphagnum in the long term. However, our data also indicate that precipitation and phosphorus availability influence the competitive balance between Sphagnum, dwarf shrubs and graminoids.
40792948|In Central-Western Spain, forests and woodlands composed of Quercus sp. support outstanding levels of biodiversity, but there is increasing concern about their long-term persistence due to a lack of regeneration. We hypothesize that this regenerative lack is operating on a large geographic scale; that there are differences in the abundance of regeneration between three oak species; that oak regeneration is governed mainly by forest management and structure; and that shrubs act as important physical protectors of seedlings and saplings. We analyzed whether densities of oak seedlings and saplings in several size classes were related to stand-structure, understory, and physiographic variables potentially affecting regeneration. Data collected at a regional level (1 km  1 km grid) by the Spanish Forest Inventory were evaluated from 2,816 plots. Results revealed that regeneration failure was common for all size categories, from small seedlings to large saplings, and for the three oak species studied, especially the evergreens. Of the Quercus ilex, Q. suber, and Q. pyrenaica plots studied, 49%, 62%, and 20% were lacking any small seedlings, and 82%, 96%, and 56% did not have any large saplings, respectively. Regeneration was positively correlated with tree cover and density, especially of small and medium-sized trees, and negatively correlated with the presence of large trees, indicating that regeneration failure is mostly associated with more open, uniform, and /or aged woodlands. Regeneration densities of Q. ilex and Q. suber were positively correlated with all understory variables, suggesting that the presence of pioneer shrubs represent a major safe site for early tree recruitment, independent from specific shrub species.
23328058|Climate change may alter the terrestrial ecosystem carbon balance in the Arctic, and previous studies have emphasized the importance of cold season gas exchange when considering the annual carbon balance. Here, we examined gross ecosystem production (GEP), ecosystem respiration (R eco ) and net ecosystem exchange (NEE) during autumn at a high arctic dry open heath, over a period where air temperatures decreased from +9.8 to -16.5C. GEP declined by 95100% during autumn but GEP significantly different from 0 was measured on October 8 despite sub-zero temperatures. R eco declined by 90% and dominated NEE throughout the study as the ecosystem on all measurement days was a source of atmospheric CO 2 . We estimated net September carbon losses (NEE) to be 17 g CO 2 m -2 , emphasizing the importance of autumn in relation to annual carbon budgets. The study site has been subjected to 14 summers of water addition, and occasional pulses of nitrogen (N) addition in a fully factorial design. N addition enhanced GEP up to 17-fold during September, although there was no effect in October when GEP was very low. Summer water addition decreased autumn R eco by up to 25%. Both N amendment and water addition decreased carbon loss, that is, increased NEE; N amendment increased NEE on all dates by 1364% whereas water addition increased NEE by 2054% late in September and onward, demonstrating the importance of nutrient and water availability on carbon balance in high arctic tundra, also during the autumn freeze-in.
41505952|Many animals move in response to climatic variations, with responses of highly mobile species such as waterbirds being especially dynamic. Climatic patterns are commonly quantified through static aggregation of meteorological variables, yet static analyses may only poorly relate to dynamic ecological responses. A technique is developed here to examine relationships between ecological responses and climatic dynamics through quantifying the dynamic structure of large-scale weather systems as they propagate through time and space. Analyses of localized climatic dynamics permit insight into the dependence of ecosystem responses not just upon spatial and temporal scales, but also upon frequencies and prevailing directions, of climatic variation. The technique is applied to the single variable of the aggregate abundance of all species of waterbirds counted in the annual Eastern Australian Aerial Waterbird Survey. The strongest climatic influence on avian abundance is shown to be the coherence of large-scale precipitation systems with spectral frequencies of around 15 days that propagate south-east into the interior of the continent from the tropical north. Directly aggregated rainfall presents a secondary influence. These comprehensively integrative analyses of localized weather are ultimately able to explain over 75% of the inter-annual variance in the aggregate abundance of over 90 species of waterbirds. These results provide a powerful demonstration of the techniques developed here, and reveal the profound extent to which environmental variability structures Australian ecosystems.
40928245|Riparian ecosystems can harbor great diversity and provide important ecological functions such as improving water quality. The impact of eutrophication on riparian ecosystems, however, is unclear. We conducted a mesocosm experiment to study the effects of nutrient loading on riparian ecosystems. We specifically asked whether the source of nutrients in the riparian zone affects the complex interactions that occur between surface water and adjacent wetlands. We also studied litter decomposition in the wetland component of the mesocosms, because litter accumulation in fens is assumed to control succession toward floating mats. Each mesocosm consisted of an upland component, referred to as the bank, and a water compartment. The bank and water compartments were planted with typical riparian zone and open water fen species prior to the addition of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in different combinations to either the bank or the surface water. Nutrient addition (mainly P) resulted in increased plant production and higher expansion rates of plants on the bank and in the water. There were also clear interactions in plant responses between the bank and water. Only eutrophic species increased shoot densities after fertilization. Nutrient addition further resulted in higher litter production, especially on the banks, and stimulated decomposition. Both the plant responses and the litter experiment indicated that eutrophication would accelerate succession to floating mats. Such floating fen mats are not likely to have the typical species-rich combination of desirable species; however, as our results suggest that they would be dominated by a few eutrophic species.
25053805|This study evaluated the hydrologic sensitivity of vernal pool ecosystems in the Central Valley of California to climatic changes projected for 2100. A vernal pool water-balance model was used to evaluate rain-fed vernal pools at four locations under future conditions projected by two contrasting global climate models. The potential for change in the duration of continuous inundation, frequency of reproductively suitable inundation events, and the seasonal distribution of inundation was quantified. The potential impact of hydrologic changes varied by species and by location. Three scales of response were identified: (a) At the regional scale, pools in the middle of the Central Valley near Merced were the most responsive to climatic changes. (b) At the local scale, smaller, shallower pools had the greatest potential to change the distribution of reproductively suitable habitat available to branchiopods. (c) At the individual pool scale, changes in precipitation will dominate changes in temperature, resulting in relatively linear responses in the duration of inundation. The ecological impact of these changes will be determined by a balance between the increasing suitability of vernal pools for branchiopod predators and the hydrologic improvement of currently marginal habitats.
3659052|Managed ecosystems are complex, dynamic systems with spatially varying inputs and outputs that are the result of interrelated physical, biological, and human decision-making processes. To gain an adequate understanding of these systems and predict their behavior, we believe that it is necessary to move beyond stylized theoretical models and loosely coupled disciplinary simulation models to what we describe as "fully integrated models." Herein we present a conceptual framework for a more integrated approach to the study of managed ecosystems using the example of agricultural ecosystems. We then propose the implementation of a research agenda that fosters coordinated disciplinary research aimed at a better understanding and quantification of linkages across disciplinary models. Key research issues include thee effects of spatial scale, the assessment of uncertainty in coupled models, and methods for collecting and analyzing spatially referenced data.
41413043|Soil microorganisms are key drivers of terrestrial biogeochemical cycles, yet it is still unclear how variations in soil microbial community composition influence many ecosystem processes. We investigated how shifts in bacterial community composition and diversity resulting from differences in carbon (C) availability affect organic matter decomposition by conducting an in situ litter manipulation experiment in a tropical rain forest in Costa Rica. We used bar-coded pyrosequencing to characterize soil bacterial community composition in litter manipulation plots and performed a series of laboratory incubations to test the potential functional significance of community shifts on organic matter decomposition. Despite clear effects of the litter manipulation on soil bacterial community composition, the treatments had mixed effects on microbial community function. Distinct communities varied in their ability to decompose a wide range of C compounds, and functional differences were related to both the relative abundance of the two most abundant bacterial sub-phyla (Acidobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria) and to variations in bacterial alphadiversity. However, distinct communities did not differ in their ability to decompose native dissolved organic matter (DOM) substrates that varied in quality and quantity. Our results show that although resource-driven shifts in soil bacterial community composition have the potential to influence decomposition of specific C substrates, those differences may not translate to differences in DOM decomposition rates in situ. Taken together, our results suggest that soil bacterial communities may be either functionally dissimilar or equivalent during decomposition depending on the nature of the organic matter being decomposed.
25470363|Tree presence in semiarid ecosystems is generally constrained by insufficient annual rainfall. However, in semiarid chile, rainforest patches dominated by Aextoxicon punctatum are unexpectedly found on coastal mountaintops (450-600 m) at 30S, surrounded by a xerophytic vegetation matrix that receives only 147 mm of annual precipitation. It has been proposed that these forests persist as a result of fog-water inputs. If so, then because fog-water deposition is spatially heterogeneous and shows strong edge effects, the potential environmental gradient created by the direction of fog input should determine forest structure and tree regeneration patterns. To investigate this hypothesis, we measured fog inputs, forest structural attributes (age and size distribution, basal area, and coarse woody debris), and tree regeneration in three different habitats: the windward edges (WE), leeward edges (LE), and the interior (center) of rainforest patches varying in area from 0.2 to 22 ha. Mean fog-water input was estimated from passive collectors over 1 year in WE and LE of patches. Tree regeneration was greater in the WE and forest interior (FI) and decreased toward the LE of patches, following a marked pattern of decline in fog inputs. Older trees and coarse woody debris were concentrated in the FI and LE of patches. Tree regeneration and patch structure appear to be largely controlled by fog-input direction and edge effects. We propose that forest patches may be slowly growing toward the incoming fog edge, while dying at the opposite edge.
3658904|Land-cover changes in the Choptank basin were estimated for 1665-1820 by using historical socioeconomic data and crop-rotation models. Socioeconomic data (human population, output per laborer, and crop yields) were obtained from the literature, whereas crop-rotation models, based on historical records, represented how agriculture was practiced. Model parameters and output were validated with export records, census data, and other historical records, and model errors were estimated to be approximately 5%. This approach indicated a sigmoidal pattern for conversion of primary forest to agricultural land by 1800. The initial time period, 1665-1720, was characterized by low-intensity tobacco and corn cultivation. Due to long fallows, the models indicated that there was little land in crops (approximately 5% of the region), but larger areas of secondary forest occurred on former cropland (approximately 15%). Although primary forest decreased, the initial result in the first 55 years was a low net rate of deforestation and occupation by low-intensity farms. However, after 1720, cropland expanded rapidly due to the use of wheat as a cash crop. From 1720 to 1775, primary and secondary forest rapidly disappeared, increasing agricultural land to 60% of the region. By 1800, approximately 80% was estimated to be converted to agriculture, and little primary forest remained. After 1800, the land needed for crops decreased due to improved management practices and crop yields, and some secondary forest on formerly cleared agricultural sites may have reappeared. We estimate that less than 150 years of European colonization resulted in virtually complete agriculturalization of a primarily forested landscape.
3658839|We compared the biogeochemical cycling of phosphorus (P) in northern hardwood forest plots invaded by exotic earthworms versus adjacent uninvaded reference plots. In three of the six pairs of plots, earthworm invasion resulted in significantly more total P in the upper 12 cm of soil. The finding of increased amounts of unavailable and occluded inorganic P forms in the invaded plots suggests that earthworm activity mobilized unweathered soil particles from deeper layers of the soil, increasing the stocks of total P in surface soils. In two pairs of plots, the earthworm-invaded soils had less total P than the reference soils. In these plots, earthworm activity resulted in augmented rates of P cycling and alteration of the physical structure of the soil that increased loss of P in leaching water, reducing the total amount of P. We hypothesize that the different effects of earthworm invasion on the soil P cycle result from unique characteristics of the ecological groups of earthworms dominating each site. The invaded plots with increased total P were dominated by the anecic species Lumbricus terrestris, a large earthworm that constructs deep, vertical burrows and is effective at moving soil materials from and to deeper layers of the profile. In contrast, the earthworm-invaded plots where the total P in the surface soil decreased were dominated by the epiendogeic species L. rubellus, which feeds and lives in the upper organic layers of the soil. In these plots, earthworms significantly increased the amount of readily exchangeable P in the soil, increasing the loss of this element in leaching water.
3659043|Using Ecopath, a trophic mass-balance modeling framework, we developed six models of a Canadian boreal forest food web centered around snowshoe hares, which have conspicuous 10-year population cycles. Detailed models of four phases of the cycle were parameterized with long-term population data for 12 vertebrate taxa. We also developed five other models that, instead of observed data, used parameter values derived from standard assumptions. Specifically, in the basic model, production was assumed to equal adult mortality, feeding rates were assumed to be allometric, and biomass was assumed to be constant. In the actual production, functional response, and biomass change models, each of these assumed values from the basic model was replaced individually by field data. Finally, constant biomass models included actual production by all species and functional responses of mammalian predators and revealed the proportion of herbivore production used by species at higher trophic levels. By comparing these models, we show that detailed information on densities and demographics was crucial to constructing models that captured dynamic aspects of the food web. These detailed models reinforced an emerging picture of the causes and consequences of the snowshoe hare cycle. The snowshoe hare decline and low phases were coincident with times when per capita production was relatively low and predation pressure high. At these times, ecotrophic efficiencies (EE) suggest there was little production that remained unconsumed by predators. The importance of both production and consumption implies that bottom-up and top-down factors interacted to cause the cycle. EEs of other herbivores (ground squirrels, red squirrels, small mammals, small birds, grouse) were generally low, suggesting weak top-down effects. Predation rates on these "alternative" prey, except ground squirrels, were highest when predators were abundant, not when hares were rare; consequently, any top-down effects reflected predator biomass and were not a function of diet composition or functional responses. Finally, several predators (lynx, coyotes, great-horned owls) showed clear bottom-up regulation, reproducing only when prey exceeded threshold densities. Taken altogether, these results demonstrate that ecosystem models parameterized by population data can describe the dynamics of nonequilibrial systems, but only when detailed information is available for the species modeled.
40603664|Large amounts (36.4 Mg ha or 179 m ha) of buried dead wood were found in overmature (146-204-year-old) black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S. P.) forests in the high boreal region of eastern Canada. Amounts of this size indicate that burial reduces rates of wood decay producing an important component of long-term carbon (C) storage. Radiocarbon-derived ages of black spruce stems buried near the bottom of the organic soil horizon at three old-growth sites were up to 515 years old. Together with information on current stand age, this suggests that the stems have been dead for more than 250 years. Most aboveground dead wood decays or becomes fragmented within about 70 years of tree death in these forests. The presence of old yet well-preserved buried wood suggests that decay rates are greatly reduced when downed dead wood is quickly overgrown by moss. Thus, the nature and type of ground-layer vegetation influences the accumulation of organic matter in these forests. This process of dead wood burial and the resultant addition to a large and long-enduring belowground pool should be considered when estimating dead wood abundance for habitat or forest accounting and cycling.
3659068|This paper describes global changes in forest cover from 1982 to 1999 based on the 8-km Pathfinder Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) data set. The procedure involves the use of a regression tree in predicting percent tree cover for the years 1982-99. Training data are created from high-resolution imagery and used with phenological metrics derived from the annual AVHRR time series. Using the 18 years of estimated tree cover, and based on a thresholding approach, we identified locations where change in tree cover has occurred. The change sites were then compared to a set of high-resolution deforestation analyses to yield area estimates of deforestation and regrowth. Percent tree cover was found to have decreased globally, from the 1980s to 1990s, in contrast to United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) reports of a global increase in forest cover. Latin America and tropical Asia are the two dominant deforestation regions. Paraguay shows the highest rate of forest clearing over the time series, while Indonesia had the greatest increase in deforestation from the 1980s to 1990s. We also suggest that the percent tree-cover maps can be used in standardizing national forest statistics, as an objective means of identifying hot spots of change, and for facilitating ecosystem monitoring.
3658971|Landscapes are strongly shaped by the degree of interaction between pattern and process. This paper examines how ecological memory, the degree to which an ecological process is shaped by its past modifications of a landscape, influences landscape dynamics. I use a simulation model to examine how ecological memory shapes the landscape dynamics produced by the interaction of vegetative regrowth and fire. The model illustrated that increased ecological memory increased the strength and spatial extent of landscape pattern. The extent of these changes depended upon the relative rates of vegetative recovery and fire initiation. When ecological memory is strong, landscape pattern is persistent; pattern tends to be maintained rather than destroyed by fire. The generality of the simulation model suggests that these results may also apply to disturbance processes other than fire. The existence of ecological memory in ecosystems may allow processes to produce ecological pattern that can entrain other ecosystem variables. The methods presented in this paper to analyze pattern in model ecosystems could be used to detect such pattern in actual ecosystems.
25622882|This study quantifies the short-term effects of low-, moderate-, and high-severity fire on carbon pools and fluxes in the Eastern Cascades of Oregon. We surveyed 64 forest stands across four fires that burned 41,000 ha (35%) of the Metolius Watershed in 2002 and 2003, stratifying the landscape by burn severity (oberstory tree mortality), forest type (ponderosa pine [PP] and mixed-conifer [MC]), and prefire biomass. Stand-scale C combustion ranged from 13 to 35% of prefire aboveground C pools (area  weighted mean = 22%). Across the sampled landscape, total estimated pyrogenic C emissions were equivalent to 2.5% of statewide anthropogenic CO emissions from fossil fuel combustion and industrial processes for the same 2-year period. From low- to moderate- to high-severity ponderosa pine stands, average tree basal area mortality was 14, 49, and 100%, with parallel patterns in mixed-conifer stands (29, 58, 96%). Despite this decline in live aboveground C, total net primary productivity (NPP) was only 40% lower in highversus low-severity stands, suggesting strong compensatory effects of non-tree vegetation on C uptake. Dead wood respiratory losses were small relative to total NPP (range: 10-35%), reflecting decomposition lags in this seasonally arid system. Although soil C, soil respiration, and fine root NPP were conserved across severity classes, net ecosystem production (NEP) declined with increasing severity, driven by trends in aboveground NPP. The high variability of C responses across this study underscores the need to account for landscape patterns of burn severity, particularly in regions such as the Pacific Northwest, where non-stand-replacement fire represents a large proportion of annual burned area.
40296380|Studies of restoration ecology are well established for northern peatlands, but at an early stage for tropical peatlands. Extensive peatland areas in Southeast Asia have been degraded through deforestation, drainage and fire, leading to on-and off-site environmental and socio-economic impacts of local to global significance. To address these problems, landscape-scale restoration measures are urgently required. This paper reviews and illustrates, using information from on-going trials in Kalimantan, Indonesia, the current state of knowledge pertaining to (i) land-cover dynamics of degraded peatlands, (ii) vegetation rehabilitation, (iii) restoration of hydrology, (iv) rehabilitation of carbon sequestration and storage, and (v) promotion of sustainable livelihoods for local communities. For a 4500 km study site in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia, we show a 78% reduction in forest cover between 1973 and 2003 and demonstrate that fire, exacerbated by drainage, is the principal driver of land-use change. Progressive vegetation succession follows infrequent, lowintensity fires, but repeated and high-intensity fires result in retrogressive succession towards non-forest communities. Re-wetting the peat is an important key to vegetation restoration and protection of remaining peat carbon stocks. The effectiveness of hydrological restoration is discussed and likely impacts on greenhouse gas emissions evaluated. Initial results indicate that raised water levels have limited short-term impact on reducing CO emissions, but could be critical in reducing fire risk. We conclude that successful restoration of degraded peatlands must be grounded in scientific knowledge, relevant to socio-economic circumstances, and should not proceed without the consent and co-operation of local communities.
3658753|In this article, we develop a heuristic model of ecosystem-disturbance dynamics that illustrates a range of responses of disturbance impact to gradients of increasing disturbance extent, intensity, or duration. Three general kinds of response are identified and illustrated: (a) threshold response, (b) scale-independent response, and (c) continuous response. Threshold responses are those in which the response curve shows a discontinuity or a sudden change in slope along the axis of increasing disturbance extent, intensity, or duration. The response threshold occurs at a point where the force of the disturbance exceeds the capacity of internal mechanisms to resist disturbance, or where new mechanisms of recovery become involved. Within this conceptual framework, we find that some unusually large or intense disturbances, but not all, produce qualitatively different responses compared with similar disturbances of lesser magnitude. If disturbance impact does not increase with increasing disturbance extent, intensity, or duration, or if the response curve changes monotonically, then large disturbances are not qualitatively different from small ones. For example, jack pine tends to become reestablished after stand-replacing fire in boreal forests, regardless of fire size, because its serotinous cones provide an adequate seed source throughout the burned area. Thus, large fires are not qualitatively different from small fires in terms of jack pine reproduction. However, if disturbance impact does increase abruptly at some point with increasing disturbance extent, intensity, or duration, often because of thresholds in the capacity of internal mechanisms to resist or respond to disturbance impact, then large disturbances are qualitatively different from small ones, at least for some parameters of ecological response. For example, balsam fir and white cedar can recolonize a small burned patch of boreal forest in close proximity to surviving individuals of these species, but they will be eliminated from a large burn because of their susceptibility to fire-caused mortality and their inability to disperse their seeds over long distances. The conceptual framework presented here permits some new insights into the dynamics of natural systems and may provide a useful tool with which managers can assess the potential for catastrophic damages resulting from large, infrequent disturbances.
41505941|It is becoming more apparent that species richness alone many not be sufficient to fully understand ecosystem resilience but that functional diversity (diversity of species having similar effects on an ecosystem process) may be more relevant. In particular, response diversity (diversity of species that respond differently to disturbance) within functional groups (FG) is suggested to be critical for resilience. We assess for the first time the use of response diversity as a measure of resilience in an empirical study. Our experimental design consisted of sites with three disturbance intensities during a grazing exclosure period and the same sites, I year later, after grazing. Plant FGs were identified based on effect traits related to nutrient cycling and soil retention, and species richness within groups was assessed during exclosure and after grazing. To assess if response diversity could predict loss of species richness (resilience analysis), response diversity was calculated only during the exclosure period, based on traits related to grazing tolerance. We also assessed the contribution of richness to response diversity during exclosure (redundancy analysis). Response diversity was significantly and highly correlated with species richness within FGs during disturbance. That is, FGs with the lowest response diversity were the most affected, disappearing when disturbance appeared. Richness within FGs during exclosure was not significantly correlated with response diversity, showing that higher richness does not ensure resilience. We conclude that response diversity can be used to predict which FGs are more resilient, and hence, less vulnerable to future disturbance.
25470375|Urbanization represents the extreme case of human influence on an ecosystem. Biogeochemical cycling of nitrogen (N) in cities is very different from that of non-urban landscapes due to the large input of reactive forms of N and the heterogeneous distribution of various land uses that alters landscape connections. To quantify the likely effects of human activities on soil N and other soil properties in urban ecosystems, we conducted a probability-based study to sample 203 plots randomly distributed over the 6,400 km Central Arizona-Phoenix Long-Term Ecological Research (CAP LTER) area, which encompasses metropolitan Phoenix with its 3.5 million inhabitants. Soil inorganic N concentrations were significantly higher in urban residential, non-residential, agricultural, transportation, and mixed sites than in the desert sites. Soil water content and organic matter were both significantly higher under urban and agricultural land uses, whereas bulk density was lower compared to undeveloped desert. We calculated that farming and urbanization on average had caused an accumulation of 7.23 g m in soil inorganic N across the CAP study area. Average soil inorganic N of the sampled desert sites (3.23 g m) was much higher than the natural background level reported in the literature. Laboratory incubation studies showed that many urban soils exhibited net immobilization of inorganic N, whereas desert and agricultural soils showed small, but positive, net N mineralization. The large accumulation of inorganic N in soils (mostly as nitrate) was highly unusual in terrestrial ecosystems, suggesting that in this arid urban ecosystem, N is likely no longer the primary limiting resource affecting plants, but instead poses a threat to surface and groundwater contamination, and influences other N cycling processes such as denitrification.
23253734|Nitrogen (N) is a critical resource for plant growth in tundra ecosystems, and species differences in the timing of N uptake may be an important feature regulating community composition and ecosystem productivity. We added 15 N-labelled glycine to a subarctic heath tundra dominated by dwarf shrubs, mosses and graminoids in fall, and investigated its partitioning among ecosystem components at several time points (October, November, April, May, June) through to the following spring/early summer. Soil microbes had acquired 65  7% of the 15 N tracer by October, but this pool decreased through winter to 37  7% by April indicating significant microbial N turnover prior to spring thaw. Only the evergreen dwarf shrubs showed active 15 N acquisition before early May indicating that they had the highest potential of all functional groups for acquiring nutrients that became available in early spring. The faster-growing deciduous shrubs did not resume 15 N acquisition until after early May indicating that they relied more on nitrogen made available later during the spring/early summer. The graminoids and mosses had no significant increases in 15 N tracer recovery or tissue 15 N tracer concentrations after the first harvest in October. However, the graminoids had the highest root 15 N, tracer concentrations of all functional groups in October indicating that they primarily relied on N made available during summer and fall. Our results suggest a temporal differentiation among plant functional groups in the post-winter resumption of N uptake with evergreen dwarf shrubs having the highest potential for early N uptake, followed by deciduous dwarf shrubs and graminoids.
3658585|Natural resource managers, environmental interest groups, and public agencies are interested in appropriate, identifiable, and measurable indicators of sustainability. At the same time, public agencies, including natural resource management agencies, are attempting to identify research and management priorities that address major environmental concerns at local and broad scales. The Identify the Specifics approach, described here, uses local (ecodistrict or smaller) ecological/biological "experts'" knowledge to identify and prioritize the local natural resources of concern (commonly species), associated management practices and ecosystems to form a concern matrix. Local ecological/biological concerns form the environmental base of a broader-scale (ecoregion/ecozone) concern matrix. This matrix identifies similarities and differences among local matrices and appropriate components for promotion to broader scales. Scale-specific matrices identify appropriate local, regional, and broader-scale indicators to monitor and assess, and provide public agencies with direction for documenting effects of management and identifying where research is needed. This approach can provide industries, public agencies, environmental interest groups, and governments with ecosystem-based, prioritized information for balancing social, economic, and ecological concerns on public and private lands.
3658820|The understanding of the taxonomic composition of Mediterranean subtidal rocky-shore food webs is extraordinary; the information on trophic links and food-web structure is, however, still meager. An initial description of the rocky-bottom food web of the Medes Islands off the Catalan coast includes a minimum of 1350 species organized in five trophic levels. A minimum of 151 trophic links have been identified for 37 broad trophic/taxonomic categories (including humans), although estimates of the total number of links at the species level may be on the order of thousands for fishes alone. Mediterranean food webs are dynamic, their topology and structure varying along seasonal and environmental gradients. Fishing has been for thousands of years the single major factor provoking changes in the structure of these Mediterranean food webs. Ecologically extinct megafauna (monk seal, loggerhead turtle, sharks) accounted for 24% of the identified trophic interactions. The removal of these large consumers had undescribed ecological consequences. Improved understanding of present and past Mediterranean food webs will improve understanding of the effects of human activities and help us preserve and restore these food webs.
3658589| CLIMEX (Climate Change Experiment) is an integrated, whole-ecosystem research project that focuses on the response of forest ecosystems at the catchment scale to increased CO
25470347|We measured the impact of riparian zone vegetation on ecosystem metabolism in paired forested and meadow reaches on 13 streams in southeastern Pennsylvania and Maryland, USA. Metabolism estimates were based on open-system measurements of dissolved oxygen changes, with reaeration determined from propane evasion. Daily gross primary productivity (GPP) in meadow and forested reaches averaged 2.85 and 0.86 g O m d, respectively, at water temperatures of 12C or greater when the forest canopy was developed and 1.74 and 1.09 g O m d, respectively, at temperatures below 12C when the canopy was bare. Community respiration (CR) also was greater in meadow reaches than in forested reaches, averaging 5.58 and 3.57 g O m d, respectively, in the warm season and 4.87 and 2.88 g O m d, respectively, during the cold season. Thus, both meadow and forested reaches were heterotrophic. Forested reaches were always wider and nearly always shallower than companion meadow reaches. When ecosystem function was assessed per unit of stream length, the difference in average GPP between meadow and forested reaches was reduced from three-fold to 1.9-fold in the warm season, and mean GPP was greater in the forested reaches during the cold season. Mean CR per meter stream length was greater in forested reaches during both seasons. Even though riparian shading reduced primary productivity per unit area of streambed, the greater stream width of the forested reaches counteracted that reduction in part. Thus, when rates of ecosystem function were expressed per length of stream, differences between reaches were always smaller than when expressed per area, and activity per unit stream length was sometimes greater in forested reaches than in meadow reaches.
27823742|In 200003, continuous eddy covariance measurements of carbon dioxide (CO2) flux were made above mature boreal aspen, black spruce, and jack pine forests in Saskatchewan, Canada, prior to and during a 3-year drought. During the 1st drought year, ecosystem respiration (R) was reduced at the aspen site due to the drying of surface soil layers. Gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) increased as a result of a warm spring and a slow decrease of deep soil moisture. These conditions resulted in the highest annual net ecosystem productivity (NEP) in the 9 years of flux measurements at this site. During 2002 and 2003, a reduction of 6% and 34% in NEP, respectively, compared to 2000 was observed as the result of reductions in both R and GEP, indicating a conservative response to the drought. Although the drought affected most of western Canada, there was considerable spatial variability in summer rainfall over the 100-km extent of the study area; summer rainfalls in 2001 and 2002 at the two conifer sites minimized the impact of the drought. In 2003, however, precipitation was similarly low at all three sites. Due to low topographic position and consequent poor drainage at the black spruce site and the coarse soil with low water-holding capacity at the jack pine site almost no reduction in R, GEP, and NEP was observed at these two sites. This study shows that the impact of drought on carbon sequestration by boreal forest ecosystems strongly depends on rainfall distribution, soil characteristics, topography, and the presence of vegetation that is well adapted to these conditions.
40603619|The complexity of natural ecological systems presents challenges for predicting the impact of global environmental changes on ecosystem structure and function. Grouping of plants into functional types, that is, groups of species sharing traits that govern their mechanisms of response to environmental perturbations, reduce the complexity of species diversity to a few key plant types for better understanding of ecosystem responses. Chambers were used to measure CO exchange in grass and moss growing together in a mountain peatland in southern Germany to assess variations in their response to environmental changes and how they influence ecosystem CO exchange. Parameter fits and comparison for net ecosystem exchange (NEE) in two ecosystem components were conducted using an empirical hyperbolic light response model. Annual green biomass production was 320 and 210 g dwt m, whereas mean maximum NEE was -10.0 and -5.0 mol m s for grass and moss, respectively. Grass exhibited higher light use efficiency () and maximum gross primary production [(+ )] Leaf area index explained 93% of light use and 83% of overall production by the grass. Peat temperature at 10-cm depth explained more than 80% of the fluctuations in ecosystem respiration (R eco ). Compared to grass, moss NEE was more sensitive to ground water level (GWL) draw-down and hence could be more vulnerable to changes in precipitation that result in GWL decline and may be potentially replaced by grass and other vegetation that are less sensitive.
3658673|Ancient conceptualizations of ecosystems exist in several Amerindian, Asia-Pacific, European, and African cultures. The rediscovery by scientists of ecosystem-like concepts among traditional peoples has been important in the appreciation of traditional ecological knowledge among ecologists, anthropologists, and interdisciplinary scholars. Two key characteristics of these systems are that (a) the unit of nature is often defined in terms of a geographical boundary, such as a watershed, and (b) abiotic components, plants, animals, and humans within this unit are considered to be interlinked. Many traditional ecological knowledge systems are compatible with the emerging view of ecosystems as unpredictable and uncontrollable, and of ecosystem processes as nonlinear, multiequilibrium, and full of surprises. Traditional knowledge may complement scientific knowledge by providing practical experience in living within ecosystems and responding to ecosystem change. However, the "language" of traditional ecology is different from the scientific and usually includes metaphorical imagery and spiritual expression, signifying differences in context, motive, and conceptual underpinnings.
3658855|Because model predictions at continental and global scales are necessarily based on broad characterizations of vegetation, soils, and climate, estimates of carbon stocks and fluxes made by global terrestrial biosphere models may not be accurate for every region. At the regional scale, we suggest that attention can be focused more clearly on understanding the relative strengths of predicted net primary productivity (NPP) limitation by energy, water, and nutrients. We evaluate the sources of variability among model predictions of NPP with a regional-scale comparison between estimates made by PnET-II (a forest ecosystem process model previously applied to the northeastern region) and TEM 4.0 (a terrestrial biosphere model typically applied to the globe) for the northeastern US. When the same climate, vegetation, and soil data sets were used to drive both models, regional average NPP predictions made by PnET-II and TEM were remarkably similar, and at the biome level, model predictions agreed fairly well with NPP estimates developed from field measurements. However, TEM 4.0 predictions were more sensitive to regional variations in temperature as a result of feedbacks between temperature and belowground N availability. In PnET-II, the direct link between transpiration and photosynthesis caused substantial water stress in hardwood and pine forest types with increases in solar radiation; predicted water stress was relieved substantially when soil water holding capacity (WHC) was increased. Increasing soil WHC had little effect on TEM 4.0 predictions because soil water storage was already sufficient to meet plant demand with baseline WHC values, and because predicted N availability under baseline conditions in this region was not limited by water. Because NPP predictions were closely keyed to forest cover type, the relative coverage of low- versus high-productivity forests at both fine and coarse resolutions was an important determinant of regional NPP predictions. Therefore, changes in grid cell size and differences in the methods used to aggregate from fine to coarse resolution were important to NPP predictions insofar as they changed the relative proportions of forest cover. We suggest that because the small patches of high-elevation spruce-fir forest in this region are substantially less productive than forests in the remainder of the region, more accurate NPP predictions will result if models applied to this region use land cover input data sets that retain as much fine-resolution forest type variability as possible. The differences among model responses to variations in climate and soil WHC data sets suggest that the models will respond quite differently to scenarios of future climate. A better understanding of the dynamic interactions between water stress, N availability, and forest productivity in this region will enable models to make more accurate predictions of future carbon stocks and fluxes.
3658929|Introduced trout have often been implicated in the decline of high-mountain amphibian populations, but few studies have attempted to understand whether fish stocking also influences the distribution and abundance of amphibians throughout entire mountain basins, including the remaining fishless lakes. We examined this relationship using the relative abundance of long-toed salamanders (Ambystoma macrodactylum) and Columbia spotted frogs (Rana luteiventris) in fish-containing and fishless lentic sites in basins with varying levels of historic fish stocking. All lentic waters were surveyed for fish and amphibians in 11 high-elevation basins in the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness, Idaho, between 1994 and 1999. We found introduced trout (Oncorhynchus clarki, O. mykiss, O. m. aguabonita) in 43 of the 101 sites, representing 90% of the total surface area of lentic water bodies available. At the scale of individual water bodies, after accounting for differences in habitat characteristics between fish-containing and fishless sites, the abundance of amphibians at all life stages was significantly lower in lakes with fish. At the basin scale, densities of overwintering life stages of amphibians were lower in the fishless sites of basins where more habitat was occupied by trout. Our results suggest that many of the remaining fishless habitats are too shallow to provide suitable breeding or overwintering sites for these amphibians and that current trout distributions may eventually result in the extirpation of amphibian populations from entire landscapes, including sites that remain in a fishless condition.
40603508|Anthropogenic nitrogen (N) deposition is a globally important source of N that is expected to increase with population growth. In southern California, N input from dry deposition accumulates on vegetation and soil surfaces of chaparral and coastal sage scrub (CSS) ecosystems during the summer and fall and becomes available as a pulse following winter rainfall. Presumably, N input will act to stimulate the productivity and N storage of these Mediterranean-type, semi-arid shrublands because these ecosystems are thought to be N limited. To assess whether dry-season N inputs alter ecosystem productivity and N storage, a field experiment was conducted over a 4-year period where plots were exposed to either ambient N deposition (control) or ambient + 50 kgN hay (added N) that was added as NH NO during the fall dry-season of each year. Plots exposed to added N had significantly higher accumulation of NH and NO on ion exchange resins that was due in part to direct fertilization and N mineralization, and the increase in N availability lead to a significant increase in NO leaching in chaparral but not CSS. Nitrogen addition also lead to an increase in litter and tissue N concentration and a decline in the C: N ratio, but failed to alter the ecosystem productivity and N storage of the chaparral and CSS shrublands over the 4-year study period. The reasons for the lack of a treatment response are unknown; however, it is possible that these semi-arid shrublands are not N limited, cannot respond rapidly enough to capture the ephemeral N pulse, are limited by other nutrients, or the N response is dependent on the amount and/or distribution of rainfall. These results have important implications for understanding the potential effects of anthropogenic N deposition on the and N cycling and storage of Mediterranean-type, semi-arid shrublands.
23501490|Old-growth forests are important stores for carbon as they may accumulate C for centuries. The alteration of biomass and soil carbon pools across the development stages of a forest dynamics cycle has rarely been quantified. We studied the above- and belowground C stocks in the five forest development stages (regeneration to decay stage) of a montane spruce (Picea abies) forest of the northern German Harz Mountains, one of Central Europe's few forests where the natural forest dynamics have not been disturbed by man for several centuries. The over-mature and decay stages had the largest total (up to 480 Mg C ha -1 ) and aboveground biomass carbon pools (200 Mg C ha -1 ) with biomass C stored in dead wood in the decay stage. The soil C pool (220275 Mg C ha -1 , 060 cm) was two to three times larger than in temperate lowland spruce forests and remained invariant across the forest dynamics cycle. On the landscape level, taking into account the frequency of the five forest development stages, the total carbon pool was approximately 420 Mg C ha -1 . The results evidence the high significance of over-mature and decaying stages of temperate mountain forests not only for conserving specialized forest organisms but also for their large carbon storage potential.
3658898|Few data sets have characterized carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) pools in woody debris at sites where other aspects of C and N cycling are studied and histories of land use and disturbance are well documented. We quantified pools of mass, C, and N in fine and coarse woody debris (CWD) in two contrasting stands: a 73-year-old red pine plantation on abandoned agricultural land and a naturally regenerated deciduous forest that has experienced several disturbances in the past 150 years. Masses of downed woody debris amounted to
27823720|Crossscale interactions refer to processes at one spatial or temporal scale interacting with processes at another scale to result in nonlinear dynamics with thresholds. These interactions change the patternprocess relationships across scales such that fine-scale processes can influence a broad spatial extent or a long time period, or broad-scale drivers can interact with fine-scale processes to determine system dynamics. Crossscale interactions are increasing recognized as having important influences on ecosystem processes, yet they pose formidable challenges for understanding and forecasting ecosystem dynamics. In this introduction to the special feature, "Crossscale interactions and patternprocess relationships", we provide a synthetic framework for understanding the causes and consequences of crossscale interactions. Our framework focuses on the importance of transfer processes and spatial heterogeneity at intermediate scales in linking fine- and broad-scale patterns and processes. Transfer processes and spatial heterogeneity can either amplify or attenuate system response to broad-scale drivers. Providing a framework to explain crossscale interactions is an important step in improving our understanding and ability to predict the impacts of propagating events and to ameliorate these impacts through proactive measures.
41505947|Gross primary productivity (GPP) often is estimated at regional and global scales by multiplying the amount of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) absorbed by the plant canopy (PARa) by light-use efficiency ( g ; GPP/PARa). Mass flux techniques are being used to calculate  g . Flux-based estimates of  g depend partly on how PAR absorption by plants is modeled as a function of leaf area index (LAI). We used CO flux measurements from three native grasslands in the Great Plains of USA to determine how varying the value of the radiation extinction coefficient (k) that is used to calculate PARa from LAI affected variability in estimates of  g for each week. The slope of linear GPPPARa regression, an index of  g , differed significantly among the 18 site-years of data, indicating that inter-annual differences in  g contributed to the overall variability in  g values. GPPPARa slopes differed among years and sites regardless of whether k was assigned a fixed value or varied as an exponential function of LAI. Permitting k to change with LAI reduced overall variability in  g , reduced the slope of a negative linear regression between seasonal means of  g and potential evapotranspiration (PET), and clarified the contribution of inter-annual differences in precipitation to variation in  g . Our results imply that greater attention be given to defining dynamics of the k coefficient for ecosystems with low LAI and that PET and precipitation be used to constrain the  g values employed in light-use efficiency algorithms to calculate GPP for Great Plains grasslands.
25470421|Large herbivores can both positively and negatively affect primary productivity and rates of nutrient cycling in different ecosystems. Positive effects of grazers in grasslands have been attributed to migratory behavior of the dominant ungulate species and soil fertility. We studied the effects of grazers on aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and N cycling on central Kenyan rangeland characterized by intense, chronic grazing by a mixed community of cattle and resident native ungulates. Exclosure studies conducted at high and low levels of soil fertility showed that both soil fertility and annual rainfall patterns mediate the effects of grazers on ANPP and N cycling. In a low-rainfall year with short (1 month) growing seasons, grazers reduced aboveground productivity regardless of soil nutrient availability. However, in a high-rainfall year with a 5-month growing season, grazers increased ANPP on nutrient-rich glades and suppressed ANPP on nutrient-poor bushland sites. Concomitant studies of grazer effects on N cycling revealed complex interactions with the seasonal pattern of N-mineralization and inorganic N availability. Grazers increased the size of the inorganic N pool available to plants at the onset of the growing season, particularly in nutrient-rich glades. However, grazers also decreased N mineralization rates at all sites early in the growing season. Measures of N availability via ion-exchange resin bags suggested that the combined effects of grazers on inorganic N pool fluctuations and N-mineralization rates resulted in a net increase in N availability at glade sites and a net decrease in N availability at bushland sites. The net effect of grazers on soil N availability mirrored grazer effects on ANPP in the high-rainfall year. Overall, our results suggest that grazer effects on N dynamics are closely linked to effects on productivity and resilience to drought. Furthermore, even under optimal conditions of high soil fertility and above-average rainfall, grazer promotion of ANPP in this chronically grazed system dominated by resident ungulates was small compared to systems dominated by migratory ungulates.
25053878|Spatial variability in material fluxes within large river basins may arise from point source inputs, variable contributions from sub-basins and longitudinal variation in material transformation and retention. By measuring instantaneous fluxes throughout the Ohio River basin, we were able to draw inferences about the importance of these factors in determining the overall export of C, N and P from the basin. Our study spanned the lower 645 km of the Ohio River and included all tributaries that contributed at least 1% of the volume of the Ohio River at its confluence with the Mississippi. The intensively cultivated northern sub-basin (Wabash River) contributed a large fraction of N and P entering the Ohio River. In the southern sub-basins (Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers), impoundments and less intense cultivation appear to diminish and delay material delivery particularly with respect to N. The southern rivers account for a proportionately larger fraction of the water entering the Mississippi River during low discharge conditions and this fraction has increased during the past 50 years. The upper portion of the study reach was found to be a net source of CHLa and DOC and a net sink for inorganic N suggesting that this portion of the river provided a generally favorable environment for autotrophic production. Point source loadings of
3658735|We evaluated soil phosphorus (P) fractions, other soil characteristics, and rates of symbiotic N
3659070| Tree plantations in the high elevations of the tropics constitute a growing land use, but their effect on ecosystem processes and services is not well known. We examined changes in soil organic carbon (C) and water retention in a chronosequence of Pinus radiata stands planted in pramo grasslands in Cotopaxi province, Ecuador. Water retention at 10, 33, and 1,500 kPa declined with stand age, with soils in the oldest pine stands retaining 39%, 55%, and 63% less water than grassland soils at the three pressures tested. Soil organic C in the 0-10-cm depth also declined with stand age, from
27823705|The region Finnmark, in northernmost Europe, harbors dense populations of semi-domestic reindeer of which some exhibit characteristics of overabundance. Whereas overabundance is evident in terms of density-dependent reductions in reindeer body mass, population growth and abundance of forage plants, claims have been made that this reindeer overabundance also has caused a trophic cascade. These claims are based on the main premise that reindeer overgrazing negatively impacts small-sized, keystone tundra herbivores. We tested this premise by a large-scale study in which the abundance of small rodents, hares and ptarmigans was indexed across reindeer management districts with strong differences in stocking densities. We examined the scale-dependent relations between reindeer, vegetation and these small-sized herbivores by employing a spatially hierarchical sampling design within the management districts. A negative impact of reindeer on ptarmigan, probably as a result of browsing reducing tall Salix, was indicated. However, small rodents (voles and lemmings), which are usually the keystone herbivores in the plant-based tundra food web, were not negatively impacted. On the contrary, there was a strong positive relationship between small rodents and reindeer, both at the scale of landscape areas and local patches, with characteristics of snow-bed vegetation, suggesting facilitation between Norwegian lemmings and reindeer. We conclude that the recent dampening of the vole and lemming population cycle with concurrent declines of rodent predators in northernmost Europe were not caused by large herbivore overgrazing.
27823690|Modification of native ecosystems through land use can affect the biophysical functioning of agroecosystems, with spatial arrangement (configuration) through time often determining the degree to which landscapes experience dysfunctional states. An improved understanding is needed of how spatial and temporal patterns in land use affect ecohydrological dysfunctions, such as how landscapes leak or fail to retain water and soil, at scales relevant to farm management. We develop and apply a Graphical LAndscape Map Survey method, or 'GLAMS', for measuring changes in landscape function based upon a 3D graphic of a hypothetical sub-catchment. GLAMS was applied within four Landcare Groups comprised of farmers from the Western Catchments of Southeast Queensland, Australia. The aim was to capture the behaviors of farmers who manage land use under natural variations in precipitation, especially extended dry periods, and with the associated risks from ecohydrologically dysfunctional or 'leaky' landscapes. GLAMS provided variable spatial and temporal resolution which allowed quantification of the land use responses for three different property sizes: (1) small, less than 100 ha; (2) medium, 100--500 ha; and (3) large, larger than 500 ha. Responses were quantified using Bayesian Belief Networks to provide probability estimates of the likelihood of a given action, taking place within a particular part of the landscape, considering both climatic and ecohydrological risks. The findings indicated that GLAMS was more intuitive to farmers than traditional question-based surveys, resulting in a low cost technique that is rapid to implement while providing spatially explicit information relevant to farm and catchment management.
3658736|For the large-scale application of simple, aggregated models, it is important to be able to link the values of model parameters to easily measurable ecosystem characteristics. However, the aggregation of model inputs and outputs over time and space can hamper this linkage. In this paper, two temporal versions of the same simple carbon dioxide ( CO
43677536|Canopy gaps and coarse woody debris are two forest structural features that are more abundant in old-growth forests than in second-growth, even-aged stands. These features directly influence the carbon balance of the ecosystem, yet few studies have quantified their interactive effects. We experimentally manipulated the forest structure of a second-growth northern hardwood forest in north-central Wisconsin (USA) and measured the shift of C between pools of the ecosystem components. Here, we question the longevity of the changes to the aboveground pools and address their implications for total ecosystem (TEC) and net ecosystem production (NEP) at both the gap and stand scale. At the scale of the gap, the harvest and removal of trees significantly reduced NEP (-3.2 to -3.5 Mg ha" 1 for gaps vs 2.2 to 2.5 Mg ha" 1 for reference conditions), but did not alter heterotrophic respiration. The addition of woody debris without harvest significantly increased heterotrophic respiration, decreasing soil storage of the gap area ( 0.5 to  1.1 Mg ha" 1 ). The combined treatment of gap creation and woody debris addition made the gap area a significant source to the atmosphere for the 3 years of the study ( 4.9 to  5.1 Mg C ha). We also estimated how these structural features would affect C dynamics at a broader scale. The conversion of 10% of the stand canopy to gap conditions caused only a brief decrease in the stand NEP with the C balance returning to reference conditions by the third year following tree harvest. The woody debris additions caused an increase in both TEC and heterotrophic respiration. When combined the addition of canopy gaps and woody debris caused plots to initially become significant C sources, relative to undisturbed locations that were consistently accumulating C, with an annual NEP ranging from 2.1 to 2.8 Mg C ha y. Understanding the effects of these structural features on forest C dynamics is highly relevant as the maturing forests of the region transition to more structurally complex forests and the demand for managing ecosystems for long-term C sequestration increases.
25470413|Recent research suggests that secondary production in aquatic systems can be driven by inputs of energy from terrestrial sources. Temporary forest ponds appear to be unproductive ecosystems that are reliant upon allochthonous inputs of energy to support secondary production, but the functioning of these systems has not been well quantified. To assess the metabolic state of this type of ecosystem as well as to quantify the importance of terrestrial subsidies of carbon to ecosystem function, we conducted an experiment in which we manipulated the amount of leaf litter in ponds. Litter was either removed or removed and replaced (that is, control) from the dry basins of ponds immediately after leaf abscission. Once the ponds filled, we monitored net ecosystem production (NEP) on a biweekly basis from 9 April to 27 May 2002. All ponds were consistently net heterotrophic; however, NEP was significantly less negative in removal ponds. Furthermore, removal ponds also had lower levels of respiration (R) and higher dissolved oxygen levels than control ponds. The removal of litter had no effect on gross primary production, indicating that the difference in NEP between treatments was driven by the change in R. Therefore, it appears that terrestrial inputs of organic carbon support heterotrophic respiration in these ponds, and that the endogenous production of carbon is insufficient to support secondary production.
25470419|The objective of this study was to characterize the effects of soil burn severity and initial tree composition on long-term forest floor dynamics and ecosystem biomass partitioning within the Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP-feathermoss bioclimatic domain of northwestern Quebec. Changes in forest floor organic matter and ecosystem biomass partitioning were evaluated along a 2,355-year chronosequence of extant stands. Dendroecological and paleoecological methods were used to determine the time since the last fire, the soil burn severity of the last fire (high vs. low severity), and the post-fire tree composition of each stand (P. mariana vs. Pinus banksiana Lamb). In this paper, soil burn severity refers to the thickness of the organic matter layer accumulated above the mineral soil that was not burned by the last fire. In stands originating from high severity fires, the post-fire dominance by Pinus banksiana or P. mariana had little effect on the change in forest floor thickness and tree biomass. In contrast, stands established after low severity fires accumulated during the first century after fire 73% thicker forest floors and produced 50% less tree biomass than stands established after high severity fires. Standing tree biomass increased until approximately 100 years after high severity fires, and then decreased at a logarithmic rate in the millennial absence of fire. Forest floor thickness also showed a rapid initial accumulation rate, and continued to increase in the millennial absence of fire at a much slower rate. However, because forest floor density increased through time, the overall rate of increase in forest floor biomass (58 g m y) remained constant for numerous centuries after fire (700 years). Although young stands (< 200 years) have more than 60% of ecosystem biomass locked-up in living biomass, older stands (> 200 years) sequester the majority (> 80%) of it in their forest floor. The results from this study illustrate that, under similar edaphic conditions, a single gradient related to time since disturbance is insufficient to account for the full spectrum of ecosystem biomass dynamics occurring in eastern boreal forests and highlights the importance of considering soil burn severity. Although fire severity induces diverging ecosystem biomass dynamics in the short term, the extended absence of fire brings about a convergence in terms of ecosystem biomass accumulation and partitioning.
41507793|Several studies have demonstrated a latitudinal gradient in the proportion of omnivorous fish species (that is, consumers of both vegetal and animal material) in marine ecosystems. To establish if this global macroecological pattern also exists in fresh and brackish waters, we compared the relative richness of omnivorous fish in freshwater, estuarine, and marine ecosystems at contrasting latitudes. Furthermore, we sought to determine the main environmental correlates of change in fish omnivory. We conducted a meta-analysis of published data focusing on change in the relative richness of omnivorous fishes in native fish communities along a broad global latitudinal gradient, ranging from 41S to 81.5 N including all continents except for Antarctica. Data from streams, rivers, lakes, reservoirs, estuaries, and open marine waters (ca. 90 papers covering 269 systems) were analyzed. Additionally, the relationship between the observed richness in omnivory and key factors influencing trophic structure were explored. For all ecosystems, we found a consistent increasing trend in the relative richness of omnivores with decreasing latitude. Furthermore, omnivore richness was higher in freshwaters than in marine ecosystems. Our results suggest that the observed latitudinal gradient in fish omnivory is a global ecological pattern occurring in both freshwater and marine ecosystems. We hypothesize that this macroecological pattern in fish trophic structure is, in part, explained by the higher total fish diversity at lower latitudes and by the effect of temperature on individual food intake rates; both factors ultimately increasing animal food limitation as the systems get warmer.
41505868|Currently, one of the biggest challenges in microbial and ecosystem ecology is to develop conceptual models that organize the growing body of information on environmental microbiology into a clear mechanistic framework with a direct link to ecosystem processes. Doing so will enable development of testable hypotheses to better direct future research and increase understanding of key constraints on biogeochemical networks. Although the understanding of phenotypic and genotypic diversity of microorganisms in the environment is rapidly accumulating, how controls on microbial physiology ultimately affect biogeochemical fluxes remains poorly understood. We propose that insight into constraints on biogeochemical cycles can be achieved by a more rigorous evaluation of microbial community biomass composition within the context of ecological stoichiometry. Multiple recent studies have pointed to microbial biomass stoichiometry as an important determinant of when microorganisms retain or recycle mineral nutrients. We identify the relevant cellular components that most likely drive changes in microbial biomass stoichiometry by defining a conceptual model rooted in ecological stoichiometry. More importantly, we show how X-ray microanalysis (XRMA), nanoscale secondary ion mass spectroscopy (NanoSIMS), Raman microspectroscopy, and in situ hybridization techniques (for example, FISH) can be applied in concert to allow for direct empirical evaluation of the proposed conceptual framework. This approach links an important piece of the ecological literature, ecological stoichiometry, with the molecular front of the microbial revolution, in an attempt to provide new insight into how microbial physiology could constrain ecosystem processes.
27823655|Some shallow lakes switch repeatedly back and forth between a vegetation dominated clear-water state and a contrasting turbid state. Usually such alternations occur quite irregularly, but in some cases the switches between states are remarkably regular. Here we use data from a well-studied Dutch lake and a set of simple models to explore possible explanations for such cyclic behavior. We first demonstrate from a graphical model that cycles may in theory occur if submerged macrophytes promote water clarity in the short run, but simultaneously cause an increased nutrient retention, implying an accumulation of nutrients in the long run. Thus, although submerged plants create a positive feedback on their own growth by clearing the water, they may in the long run undermine their position by creating a slow "internal eutrophication". We explore the potential role of two different mechanisms that may play a role in this internal eutrophication process using simulation models: (1) reduction of the P concentration in the water column by macrophytes, leading to less outflow of P, and hence to a higher phosphorus accumulation in the lake sediments and (2) a build-up of organic matter over time resulting in an increased sediment oxygen demand causing anaerobic conditions that boost P release from the sediment. Although the models showed that both mechanisms can produce cyclic behavior, the period of the cycles caused by the build-up of organic material seemed more realistic compared to data of the Dutch Lake Botshol in which regular cycles with a period of approximately 7 years have been observed over the past 17 years.
40296279|Wet meadows in the Platte River valley (PRV) consist of linear wetlands in mesic prairie matrix systems that have been degraded and diminished for agriculture. Restoration in this region is a widespread practice that involves land contouring and seeding native species, however ecosystem recovery following restoration has never been examined. We quantified recovery trajectories and rates of above-and belowground plant biomass, soil physical and chemical properties, and C and N pools in a chronosequence of six restored wet meadows in relation to three natural wetlands. Within each site, we sampled sloughs (deeper habitats) and adjacent margins (slightly higher elevation) for three consecutive years. Varying hydrologic regimes between habitats resulted in differential patterns in ecosystem measurements (bulk density, C mineralization) in both natural and restored wetlands. Total aboveground biomass (TAB), root biomass, root C and N storage, total soil C and N, microbial N, and extractable N increased with years restored in both margins and sloughs. The model predicted rates of increase did not differ between habitats, but elevations of linear regressions were higher in sloughs than margins for root N, total soil C, total soil N, MBN, and extractable total N (P < 0.05). Our results suggest that bulk density and soil organic matter (SOM) represent two useful, easily measured indices of ecosystem recovery, because they were correlated with many pools and fluxes of C and N. Furthermore, we conclude that most change in ecosystem structure and function during the first decade following restoration occurs in shallow soil depths, and ecosystem recovery varies with subtle differences in elevation and associated plant community structure.
43677535|Domestic gardens collectively cover substantial areas within cities and play an important role in supporting urban biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. The extent of their contribution to urban biodiversity is ultimately determined by the attitudes, motivations, and practices of their owners. We identified variables characterizing individual householders and their properties that explained variation in perennial plant and avian species richness and plant diversity among 55 gardens in New Zealand. The size of the vegetated area was most important in explaining bird and plant diversity, independent of property size. Also important and positively associated with plant richness were socio-economic status and ability to discriminate between native and exotic species. Median housing age and neighborhood green space were less important. Contrary to expectations, better educated householders who demonstrated pro-environmental orientation (NEP) did not necessarily have gardens with greater plant diversity, however, people with higher NEP scores tended to have gardens with more structurally complex vegetation. Similar variables were important in explaining native and exotic species richness, but higher exotic plant diversity was associated with older people with smaller properties of lower value. Avian species richness increased primarily with vegetated area, but also the areas of beds and hedges. We demonstrate that although householder knowledge is an important determinant of garden biodiversity, vegetated area is most important. Promoting urban garden biodiversity requires that larger vegetated properties be supported and encouraged, and that planners should consider biodiversity when formulating policies, concerning garden size, property size, and consents that may result in a progressive increase in the proportion of built over/paved areas.
25622881|Although many studies have debated the theoretical links between physiology, ecological niches and species distribution, few studies have provided evidence for a tight empirical coupling between these concepts at a macroecological scale. We used an ecophysiological model to assess the fundamental niche of a key-structural marine species. We found a close relationship between its fundamental and realized niche. The relationship remains constant at both biogeographical and decadal scales, showing that changes in environmental forcing propagate from the physiological to the macroecological level. A substantial shift in the spatial distribution is detected in the North Atlantic and projections of range shift using IPCC scenarios suggest a poleward movement of the species of one degree of latitude per decade for the 21st century. The shift in the spatial distribution of this species reveals a pronounced alteration of polar pelagic ecosystems with likely implications for lower and upper trophic levels and some biogeochemical cycles.
3658916|Unreplicated ecosystem experiments can be analyzed by diverse statistical methods. Most of these methods focus on the null hypothesis that there is no response of a given ecosystem to a manipulation. We suggest that it is often more productive to compare diverse alternative explanations (models) for the observations. An example is presented using whole-lake experiments. When a single experimental lake was examined, we could not detect effects of phosphorus (P) input rate, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), and grazing on chlorophyll. When three experimental lakes with contrasting DOC and food webs were subjected to the same schedule of P input manipulations, all three impacts and their interactions were measurable. Focus on multiple alternatives has important implications for design of ecosystem experiments. If a limited number of experimental ecosystems are available, it may be more informative to manipulate each ecosystem differently to test alternatives, rather than attempt to replicate the experiment.
43677503|In grassland ecosystems, where soil water most frequently controls ecosystem processes, expected changes in precipitation and temperature may have dramatic effects on ecosystem dynamics. Previous observational studies have reported that aboveground net primary production (ANPP) in grasslands is very sensitive to changes in precipitation. Yet, we lack experimentally based evidence to support these observations. Further, most of the studies have focused solely on ANPP, neglecting belowground production (BNPP). This is an important gap in our knowledge, as BNPP represents 50% or more of total net primary production (NPP) in grasslands. Here, we present results from a 3-year water manipulation experiment (2008-2010) at two sites in the central grassland region of North America, USA. We were successful in changing the soil water content in our treatments, but these changes resulted in different, but significant responses in ANPP and BNPP at our two sites. At the shortgrass steppe, we found that neither NPP nor ANPP were sensitive to treatment precipitation, and although we found BNPP was sensitive to changes in treatment precipitation, the direction of the response varied between years. In contrast, ANPP was very sensitive to treatment precipitation on the mixed-grass prairie, whereas BNPP was insensitive. Based on our finding that two grassland ecosystems showed dramatically different above and belowground production responses to soil water manipulations, we cannot assume that predicted changes in climate will cause similar above- and belowground production responses. Second, our results demonstrated that sites within the same region may differ markedly in the sensitivity of ANPP to changes in growing season precipitation.
40928221|Ecosystem dynamics and the responses to climate change in mangrove forests are poorly understood. We applied the biogeochemical process model Biome-BGC to simulate the dynamics of net primary productivity (NPP) and leaf area index (LAI) under the present and future climate conditions in mangrove forests in Shenzhen, Zhanjiang, and Qiongshan across the southern coast of China, and in three monocultural mangrove stands of two native species, Avicennia marina and Kandelia obovata, and one exotic species, Sonneratia apetala, in Shenzhen. The soil hydrological process of the model was modified by incorporating a soil water (SW) stress index to account for the impact of the effective SW availability in the coastal wetland. Our modified Biome-BGC well predicted the dynamics of NPP and LAI in the mangrove forests at the study sites. We found that the six mangrove systems differed in sensitivity to variations in the effective SW availability. At the ecosystem level, however, soil salinity alone could not entirely explain the limitation of the effective SW availability on the productivity of mangrove forests. Increasing atmospheric CO concentration differentially affected growth of different mangrove species but only had a small impact on NPP (< 7%); whereas a doubling of atmospheric CO concentration associated with a 2C temperature rise would increase NPP by 14-19% across the three geographically separate mangrove forests and by 12% to as much as 68% across the three monocultural mangrove stands. Our simulation analysis indicates that temperature change is more important than increasing CO concentration in affecting productivity of mangroves at the ecosystem level, and that different mangrove species differ in sensitivity to increases in temperature and CO concentration.
3658714|We compared Englemann spruce biogeochemical processes in forest stands east and west of the Continental Divide in the Colorado Front Range. The divide forms a natural barrier for air pollutants such that nitrogen (N) emissions from the agricultural and urban areas of the South Platte River Basin are transported via upslope winds to high elevations on the east side but rarely cross over to the west side. Because there are far fewer emissions sources to the west, atmospheric N deposition is
40793009|The observed long-term decrease in the regional fire activity of Eastern Canada results in excessive accumulation of organic layer on the forest floor of coniferous forests, which may affect climategrowth relationships in canopy trees. To test this hypothesis, we related tree-ring chronologies of black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B. S. P.) to soil organic layer (SOL) depth at the stand scale in the lowland forests of Quebec's Clay Belt. Late-winter and early-spring temperatures and temperature at the end of the previous year's growing season were the major monthly level environmental controls of spruce growth. The effect of SOL on climategrowth relationships was moderate and reversed the association between tree growth and summer aridity from a negative to a positive relationship: trees growing on thin organic layers were thus negatively affected by drought, whereas it was the opposite for sites with deep (> 20-30 cm) organic layers. This indicates the development of wetter conditions on sites with thicker SOL. Deep SOL were also associated with an increased frequency of negative growth anomalies (pointer years) in treering chronologies. Our results emphasize the presence of nonlinear growth responses to SOL accumulation, suggesting 20-30 cm as a provisional threshold with respect to the effects of SOL on the climate-growth relationship. Given the current climatic conditions characterized by generally lowfire activity and a trend toward accumulation of SOL, the importance of SOL effects in the black spruce ecosystem is expected to increase in the future.
3659033|We examined denitrification potentials in six of the major landscape structure (riparian soils of both meandering and braided streams, peat lands, coniferous flats, alder slopes, and groundwater seeps) of the Lake Nerka catchment in southwest Alaska. We found significant potential denitrifying activity in all the soils of the main landscape patch types of the Lake Nerka catchment. The lowest potential denitrifying activity was measured in the peat lands. A highly significant relationship was found between soil organic matter and potential denitrification activity in three landforms-coniferous flats, groundwater seeps, and riparian soils of meandering streams. These three landscape structures also had the highest denitrifying potential. The finer soils of riparian zones along spawning streams, which corresponded to meandering streams, showed a significantly higher potential denitrification activity than the coarse riparian soils along nonspawning streams. These nonspawning streams corresponded to braided streams, where finer sediments were not as prevalent. Therefore, if this high potential denitrification measured in riparian soils of spawning streams is combined with large inputs of nitrate to anaerobic sites, it can result in
25622900|It is very difficult to estimate litter decomposition rates in natural ecosystems because litters of many species are mixed and idiosyncratic interactions occur among those litters. A way to tackle this problem is to investigate litter mixing effects not at the species level but at the level of Plant Functional Types (PFTs). We tested the hypothesis that at the PFT level positive and negative interactions balance each other, causing an overall additive effect (no significant interactions among PFTs). Thereto, we used litter of four PFTs from a temperate peatland in which random draws were taken from the litter species pool of each PFT for every combination of 2, 3, and 4 PFTs. Decomposition rates clearly differed among the 4 PFTs (Sphagnum spp. < graminoids = N-fixing tree < forbs) and showed little variation within the PFTs (notably for the Sphagnum mosses and the graminoids). Significant positive interactions (4 out of 11) in the PFT mixtures were only found after 20 weeks and in all these combinations Sphagnum was involved. After 36 and 56 weeks of incubation interactions were not significantly different from zero. However, standard deviations were larger than the means, indicating that positive and negative interactions balanced each other. Thus, when litter mixture interactions are considered at the PFT level the interactions are additive. From this we conclude that for estimating litter decomposition rates at the ecosystem level, it is sufficient to use the weighted (by litter production) average decomposition rates of the contributing PFTs.
23501486|Phosphorus (P) availability in terrestrial ecosystems depends on soil age, climate, parent material, topographic position, and biota, but the relative importance of these drivers has not been assessed. To ask which factor has the strongest influence on long- and short-timescale metrics of P availability, we sampled soils across a full-factorial combination of two parent materials [quartz diorite (QD) and volcaniclastic (VC)], three topographic positions (ridge, slope, and valley), and across 550 m in elevation in 17 sub-watersheds of the Luquillo Mountains, Puerto Rico. VC rocks had double the P content of QD (600 vs. 300 ppm; P < 0.0001), and soil P was similarly approximately 2 higher in VC-derived soils (P < 0.0001). Parent material also explained the most variance in our two other long-timescale metrics of P status: the fraction of recalcitrant P (56% variance explained) and the loss of P relative to parent material (35% variance explained), both of which were higher on VC-derived soils (P < 0.0001 for both). Topographic position explained an additional 1015% of the variance in these metrics. In contrast, there was no parent material effect on the more labile NaHCO3- and NaOH-extractable P soil pools, which were approximately 2.5 greater in valleys than on ridges (P < 0.0001). Taken together, these data suggest that the relative importance of different state factors varies depending on the ecosystem property of interest and that parent material and topography can play sub-equal roles in driving differences in ecosystem P status across landscapes.
41505900|Extreme climatic events have the potential to affect plant communities around the world, and especially in the Mediterranean basin, where the frequency of milder and drier summers is expected to be altered under a global-change scenario. We experimentally investigated the effect of three contrasting climatic scenarios on the diversity and abundance of the natural woody-recruit bank among three characteristic habitats in a Mediterranean-type ecosystem: forest, shrubland, and bare soil. The climatic scenarios were dry summers (30% summer rainfall reduction), wet summers (simulating summer storms), and current climatic conditions (control). Seedling emergence and survival after the first summer was recorded during 4 consecutive years. The wet summer boosted abundance and diversity at emergence and summer survival, rendering the highest Shannon H' index. By contrast, the dry summer had no effect on emergence, although survival tended to decline. Nonetheless, the habitat had a key role, bare soil showing almost null recruitment whatever the climatic scenario, and forest keeping the highest diversity in all of them. Our results show that recruit-bank density and diversity depends heavily on extreme climatic events. Community dynamics will depend not only on increased drought but also on the balance between dry and wet years.
3658999|The aim of this study was to determine whether the experimental nutrient enrichment of littoral rocky shore communities would be followed by a predicted accumulation of fast-growing opportunistic algae and a subsequent loss of perennial benthic vegetation. Inorganic nitrogen (N) and potassium (P) was added to eight concrete mesocosms inhabited by established littoral communities dominated by fucoids. The response to nutrient enrichment was followed for almost 2 1/2 years. Fast-growing opportunistic algae (periphyton and ephemeral green algae) grew significantly faster in response to nutrient enrichment, but the growth of red filamentous algae and large perennial brown algae was unaffected. However, these changes were not followed by comparable changes in the biomass and composition of the macroalgae. The biomass of opportunistic algae was stimulated only marginally by the nutrient enrichment, and perennial brown algae (fucoids) remained dominant in the mesocosm regardless of nutrient treatment level. Established rocky shore communities thus seem able to resist the effects of heavy nutrient loading. We found that the combined effects of the heavy competition for space and light imposed by canopy-forming algae, preferential grazing on opportunistic algae by herbivores, and physical disturbance, succeeded by a marked export of detached opportunistic algae, prevented the fast-growing algae from becoming dominant. However, recruitment studies showed that the opportunistic algae would become dominant when free space was available under conditions of high nutrient loading and low grazing pressure. These results show that established communities of perennial algae and associated fauna in rocky shore environments can prevent or delay the accumulation of bloom-forming opportunistic algae and that the replacement of long-lived macroalgae by opportunistic species at high nutrient loading may be a slow process. Nutrient enrichment may not, in itself, be enough to stimulate structural changes in rocky shore communities.
40928247|Heavy metal bioaccumulation models are important for interpreting water quality data, predicting bioaccumulation in organisms, and investigating the provenance of contaminants. To date they have been predominantly used as single-issue models, under steady-state conditions and in isolation of the biogeochemical processes that control metal bioaccumulation. Models that incorporate these processes would allow a more holistic approach to bioaccumulation modeling and contaminant assessment; however, this has been rarely undertaken, probably because it requires the integration of inter-disciplinary areas. In this study, we have developed such a model that integrates three key multi-disciplinary areas (biological, metal speciation, and bioaccumulation processes) and responds to variations in temporal external and internal forcing. Furthermore, spatial context is provided by developing the model within a simple hydrodynamic box-modeling framework. The calibrated model was able to predict with reasonable accuracy the temporal and spatial trends of soft-tissue copper bioaccumulation in a coastal oyster. This exploratory model was also used to highlight the importance of phytoplankton as an important vector of copper uptake dynamics by an oyster, therefore reinforcing the importance of the integrated approach. Finally, our model provides a framework for greater application beyond this specific example such as in the areas of waterway restoration, which has been shown to be an important area of ecological and environmental research.
41505871|Mosaic freshwater landscapes exhibit tree-dominated patches or tree islandsinterspersed in a background of marshes and wet prairies. In the Florida Everglades, these patterned landscapes provide habitat for a variety of plant and animal species and are hotspots of biodiversity. Even though the emergence of patchy freshwater systems has been associated with climate histories, fluctuating hydrologie conditions, and internal feedbacks, a process-based quantitative understanding of the underlying dynamics is still missing. Here, we develop a mechanistic framework that relates the dynamics of vegetation, nutrients and soil accretion/loss through ecogeomorphic feedbacks and interactions with hydrologie drivers. We show that the stable coexistence of tree islands and marshes results as an effect of their both being (meta-) stable states of the system. However, tree islands are found to have only a limited resilience, in that changes in hydrologie conditions or vegetation cover may cause an abrupt shift to a stable marsh state. The inherent non-linear and discontinuous dynamics determining the stability and resilience of tree islands should be accounted for in efforts aiming at the management, conservation and restoration of these features.
40296373|The net ecosystem carbon dioxide (CO) exchange (NEE) of nine European mountain grassland ecosystems was measured during 2002-2004 using the eddy covariance method. Overall, the availability of photosynthetically active radiation (PPFD) was the single most important abiotic influence factor for NEE. Its role changed markedly during the course of the season, PPFD being a better predictor for NEE during periods favorable for CO uptake, which was spring and autumn for the sites characterized by summer droughts (southern sites) and (peak) summer for the Alpine and northern study sites. This general pattern was interrupted by grassland management practices, that is, mowing and grazing, when the variability in NEE explained by PPFD decreased in concert with the amount of aboveground biomass (BMag). Temperature was the abiotic influence factor that explained most of the variability in ecosystem respiration at the Alpine and northern study sites, but not at the southern sites characterized by a pronounced summer drought, where soil water availability and the amount of aboveground biomass were more or equally important. The amount of assimilating plant area was the single most important biotic variable determining the maximum ecosystem carbon uptake potential, that is, the NEE at saturating PPFD. Good correspondence, in terms of the magnitude of NEE, was observed with many (semi-) natural grasslands around the world, but not with grasslands sown on fertile soils in lowland locations, which exhibited higher maximum carbon gains at lower respiratory costs. It is concluded that, through triggering rapid changes in the amount and area of the aboveground plant matter, the timing and frequency of land management practices is crucial for the short-term sensitivity of the NEE of the investigated mountain grassland ecosystems to climatic drivers.
3658754|All species have evolved in the presence of disturbance, and thus are in a sense matched to the recurrence pattern of the perturbations. Consequently, disturbances within the typical range, even at the extreme of that range as defined by large, infrequent disturbances (LIDs), usually result in little long-term change to the system's fundamental character. We argue that more serious ecological consequences result from compounded perturbations within the normative recovery time of the community in question. We consider both physically based disturbance (for example, storm, volcanic eruption, and forest fire) and biologically based disturbance of populations, such as overharvesting, invasion, and disease, and their interactions. Dispersal capability and measures of generation time or age to first reproduction of the species of interest seem to be the important metrics for scaling the size and frequency of disturbances among different types of ecosystems. We develop six scenarios that describe communities that have been subjected to multiple perturbations, either simultaneously or at a rate faster than the rate of recovery, and appear to have entered new domains or "ecological surprises." In some cases, three or more disturbances seem to have been required to initiate the changed state. We argue that in a world of ever-more-pervasive anthropogenic impacts on natural communities coupled with the increasing certainty of global change, compounded perturbations and ecological surprises will become more common. Understanding these ecological synergisms will be basic to environmental management decisions of the 21st century.
43677531|Pedogenic thresholds occur where soil properties change abruptly and/or nonlinearly with a small increment in environmental forcing; soil process domains are the regions between thresholds where soils change much more gradually across a large range of environmental forcing. We evaluated thresholds and domains in basalt-derived soils on two rainfall gradients in Hawaiione from 260 to 3,540 mm/y precipitation on 150,000-year-old substrate, the other from 600 to 3,760 mm/y on 4,100,000-year-old substrate. We identified thresholds associated with the initiation of biological uplift of nutrients at about 700 mm/y on the younger substrate, the depletion of primary minerals at about 2,100 mm/y on the younger and about 900 mm/y on the older substrate, and the initiation of anoxic conditions and associated Fe mobility at about 2,500 mm/y on the older substrate. These thresholds delineated process domains characterized by pedogenic carbonate accumulation and wind erosion (dry young substrate); by weathering and biological uplift of nutrients (intermediate rainfall young substrate and dry old substrate); by surface Fe enrichment and nutrient depletion (wet young substrate and intermediate rainfall old substrate); and by Fe mobilization and loss (wet old substrate). Soils on the older substrate were more highly weathered, lower in total and available P, and characterized by more crystalline clays than otherwise comparable soils on the younger substrate. Prior to European contact, Hawaiian cultivators developed an intensive rain-fed agricultural system in the weathering/biological uplift domain on the younger substrate; we suggest that only this domain could support indigenous agricultural intensification in upland soils.
23501306|Disturbance regimes in much of the boreal forest have shifted from wildfire to clearcutting over the last century, resulting in concerns for biodiversity. Because the boreal forest has evolved under a natural fire regimes, we hypothesized that application of prescribed burning (PB) after clearcutting would result in plant communities more similar to wildfire than clearcut only. However, because clearcutting + PB involves multiple disturbances in a short interval, we proposed an alternate hypothesis that clearcutting + PB would result in a species composition and trait assemblage that differ from those that develop after a single wildfire or clearcutting event. We determined species composition, diversity, and trait composition of 17 clearcut, 17 clearcut + PB, and 15 wildfire sites of jack pine (Pinus banksiana) dominated forests in northwestern Ontario, Canada 1537 years after disturbance. Contrary to our primary hypothesis we found that clearcut + PB formed communities different from wildfire and clearcut, the latter two being similar. Clearcut + PB harbored more early successional species associated with seed banking, wind dispersal, deciduous foliage, and alien origin than wildfire or clearcut sites, which showed no specific trait associations. Taxonomic and trait analysis of clearcut + PB sites exhibited effects of compound disturbances, as observed after short-interval fires, supporting our alternate hypothesis. We concluded that PB after clearcutting formed plant communities significantly different from those developed either after clearcutting or wildfire alone. We attribute this community divergence to the compounding effects associated with the addition of prescribed fire to these previously disturbed forests.
40928241|The objectives of this study were to quantify rates of nitrogen inputs to the forest floor, determine rates of nitrogen losses via leaching and to partition the sources of NO from healthy, declining, and salvage or preemptively cut eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) stands in both an urban forest at the Arnold Arboretum in Boston, MA and a rural forest at Harvard Forest in Petersham, MA. Rates of nitrogen inputs (NH and NO) to the forest floor were 4-5 times greater, and rates of nitrogen losses via leachate were more than ten times greater, at the Arnold Arboretum compared to Harvard Forest. Nitrate that was lost via leachate at Harvard Forest came predominantly from atmospheric deposition inputs, whereas NO losses at the Arnold Arboretum came predominantly from nitrification. Although our study was limited to one urban and one rural site, our results suggest that current management regimes used to control the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae), such as salvage cutting, may be reducing nitrogen losses in urban areas due to rapid regrowth of vegetation and uptake of nitrogen by those plants. In contrast, preemptive cutting of trees in rural areas may be leading to proportionately greater losses of nitrogen in those sites, though the total magnitude of nitrogen lost is still smaller than in urban sites. Results of our study suggest that the combination of the hemlock woolly adelgid, nitrogen inputs, and management practices lead to changes in the movement and source of NO losses from eastern hemlock forest ecosystems.
3658622|The Florida Everglades is extremely oligotrophic and sensitive to small increases in phosphorus (P) concentrations. P enrichment is one of the dominant anthropogenic impacts on the ecosystem and is therefore a main focus of restoration efforts. In this review, we synthesize research on P biogeochemistry and the impact of P enrichment on ecosystem structure and function in the Florida Everglades. There are clear patterns of increased P concentrations and altered structure and processes along nutrient-enrichment gradients in the water, periphyton, soils, macrophytes, and consumers. Periphyton, an assemblage of algae, bacteria, and associated microfauna, is abundant and has a large influence on phosphorus cycling in the Everglades. The oligotrophic Everglades is P-starved, has lower P concentrations and higher nitrogen-phosphorus (N:P) ratios, and has oxidized to only slightly reduced soil profiles compared to other freshwater wetland ecosystems. Possible general causes and indications of P limitation in the Everglades and other wetlands include geology, hydrology, and dominance of oxidative microbial nutrient cycling. The Everglades may be unique with respect to P biogeochemistry because of the multiple causes of P limitation and the resulting high degree of limitation.
3658680|Global modeling has been used for decades to assess the possible futures of humanity and the global environment. However, these models do not always satisfactorily include the adaptive characteristics of systems. In this article, a general approach is used to simulate change and transition at a macrolevel due to adaptation at a microlevel. Tools from complex adaptive systems research are used to simulate the microlevel and consequently determine parameter values of the equation-based macrolevel model. Two case studies that applied this approach are reviewed. The first study assessed the efficacy of efforts to control malaria, whereas the second study used an integrated model to construct climate change scenarios by using various possible views on the nature of the climate system.
3658630|Understanding terrestrial carbon metabolism is critical because terrestrial ecosystems play a major role in the global carbon cycle. Furthermore, humans have severely disrupted the carbon cycle in ways that will alter the climate system and directly affect terrestrial metabolism. Changes in terrestrial metabolism may well be as important an indicator of global change as the changing temperature signal. Improving our understanding of the carbon cycle at various spatial and temporal scales will require the integration of multiple, complementary and independent methods that are used by different research communities. Tools such as air sampling networks, inverse numerical methods, and satellite data (top-down approaches) allow us to study the strength and location of the global- and continental-scale carbon sources and sinks. Bottom-up studies provide estimates of carbon fluxes at finer spatial scales and examine the mechanisms that control fluxes at the ecosystem, landscape, and regional scales. Bottom-up approaches include comparative and process studies (for example, ecosystem manipulative experiments) that provide the necessary mechanistic information to develop and validate terrestrial biospheric models. An iteration and reiteration of top-down and bottom-up approaches will be necessary to help constrain measurements at various scales. We propose a major international effort to coordinate and lead research programs of global scope of the carbon cycle.
41413036|Ectomycorrhizal (EM) networks are hypothesized to facilitate regeneration under abiotic stress. We tested the role of networks in interactions between P. menziesii var. glauca trees and conspecific seedlings along a climatic moisture gradient to: (1) determine the effects of climatic factors on network facilitation of Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco var. glauca (Mayr) seedling establishment, (2) infer the changing importance of P. menziesii var. glauca parent trees in conspecific regeneration with climate, and (3) parse the competitive from facultative effects of P. menziesii var. glauca trees on seedlings. When drought conditions were greatest, seedling growth increased when seedlings could form a network with trees in the absence of root competition, but was reduced when unable to form a network. Survival was maximized when seedlings were able to form a network in the absence of root competition. Seedling stem natural abundance C increased with drought due to increasing water use efficiency, but was unaffected by distance from tree or network potential. We conclude that P. menziesii seedlings may benefit from the presence of established P. menziesii trees when growing under climatic drought, but that this benefit is contingent upon the establishment of an EM network prior to the onset of summer drought. These results suggest that networks are an important mechanism for EM plants establishing in a pattern consistent with the stress-gradient hypothesis, and therefore the importance of EM networks to facilitation in regeneration of EM trees is expected to increase with drought.
3658607|Once the weathering of parent material ceases to supply significant inputs of phosphorus (P), vegetation depends largely on the decomposition of litter and soil organic matter and the associated mineralization of organic P forms to provide an adequate supply of this essential nutrient. At the same time, the decomposition of litter is often characterized by the immobilization of nutrients, suggesting that nutrient availability is a limiting factor for this process. Immobilization temporally decouples nutrient mineralization from decomposition and may play an important role in nutrient retention in low-nutrient ecosystems. In this study, we used a common substrate to study the effects of native soil P availability as well as artificially elevated P availability on litter decomposition rates in a lowland Amazonian rain forest on highly weathered soils. Although both available and total soil P pools varied almost three fold across treatments, there was no significant difference in decomposition rates among treatments. Decomposition was rapid in all treatments, with approximately 50% of the mass lost over the 11-month study period. Carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) remaining and C:N ratios were the most effective predictors of amount of mass remaining at each time point in all treatments. Fertilized treatments showed significant amounts of P immobilization (P < 0.001). By the final collection point, the remaining litter contained a quantity equivalent to two-thirds of the initial P and N, even though only half of the original mass remained. In these soils, immobilization of nutrients in the microbial biomass, late in the decomposition process, effectively prevents the loss of essential nutrients through leaching or occlusion in the mineral soil.
23328067|The availability of phosphorus (P) can limit net primary production (NPP) in tropical rainforests growing on highly weathered soils. Although it is well known that plant roots release organic acids to acquire P from P-deficient soils, the importance of organic acid exudation in P-limited tropical rainforests has rarely been verified. Study sites were located in two tropical montane rainforests (a P-deficient older soil and a P-rich younger soil) and a tropical lowland rainforest on Mt. Kinabalu, Borneo to analyze environmental control of organic acid exudation with respect to soil P availability, tree genus, and NPP. We quantified root exudation of oxalic, citric, and malic acids using in situ methods in which live fine roots were placed in syringes containing nutrient solution. Exudation rates of organic acids were greatest in the P-deficient soil in the tropical montane rainforest. The carbon (C) fluxes of organic acid exudation in the P-deficient soil (0.7 mol C m -2 month -1 ) represented 16.6% of the aboveground NPP, which was greater than those in the P-rich soil (3.1%) and in the lowland rainforest (4.7%), which exhibited higher NPP. The exudation rates of organic acids increased with increasing root surface area and tip number. A shift in vegetation composition toward dominance by tree species exhibiting a larger root surface area might contribute to the higher organic acid exudation observed in P-deficient soil. Our results quantitatively showed that tree roots can release greater quantities of organic acids in response to P deficiency in tropical rainforests.
23253732|For millennia, mankind has shaped landscapes, particularly through agriculture. In Europe, the age-old interaction between humans and ecosystems strongly influenced the cultural heritage. Yet European farmland is now being abandoned, especially in remote areas. The loss of the traditional agricultural landscapes and its consequences for biodiversity and ecosystem services is generating concerns in both the scientific community and the public. Here we ask to what extent farmland abandonment can be considered as an opportunity for rewilding ecosystems. We analyze the perceptions of traditional agriculture in Europe and their influence in land management policies. We argue that, contrary to the common perception, traditional agriculture practices were not environmentally friendly and that the standards of living of rural populations were low. We suggest that current policies to maintain extensive farming landscapes underestimate the human labor needed to sustain these landscapes and the recent and future dynamics of the socio-economic drivers behind abandonment. We examine the potential benefits for ecosystems and people from rewilding. We identify species that could benefit from land abandonment and forest regeneration and the ecosystem services that could be provided such as carbon sequestration and recreation. Finally, we discuss the challenges associated with rewilding, including the need to maintain open areas, the fire risks, and the conflicts between people and wildlife. Despite these challenges, we argue that rewilding should be recognized by policy-makers as one of the possible land management options in Europe, particularly on marginal areas.
25053885|In the southern California foothills and mountains, pronounced and complex topographic gradients support fire regimes that vary over short distances. We used LANDIS, a spatially explicit landscape model of disturbance and plant succession, to examine the resilience of dominant plant species, representing different disturbance response strategies, to the effect of varying fire rotation intervals (FRI). The simulated fire regimes represented natural, current and very long FRIs for the foothill shrublands less than 1,400 m (90, 30 and 150 years) and montane forest greater than 1400 m (30, 150, 500 years). The 30-year FRI allowed obligate resprouting shrubs to dominate over obligate seeders, whereas the 90-year FRI resulted in a stable spatial distribution of both of these shrub functional types. This is consistent with the literature that suggests that shifts in shrubland composition are most likely to result from human-caused increases in fire frequency at the low-elevation urban-wildland interface. An ecotone conifer, Pinus coulteri, showed dramatic shifts in distribution under different FRIs, and retreated to the portion of the landscape representing its temporal regeneration niche. Both low and high frequency fire maintained the fire tolerant dominant pine (P. jeffreyi) in the montane zone. This contradicts the literature that suggests that a high frequency ground fire regime is required for the persistence of a pine-dominated forest, but is consistent with studies showing that conifer forests in the western U.S. have experienced, and are resilient to, a broad range of natural FRIs that include low frequency, high intensity crown fires.
3658938|How will climate change affect the sustainability of Arctic villages over the next 40 years? This question motivated a collaboration of 23 researchers and four Arctic communities (Old Crow, Yukon Territory, Canada; Aklavik, Northwest Territories, Canada; Fort McPherson, Northwest Territories, Canada; and Arctic Village, Alaska, USA) in or near the range of the Porcupine Caribou Herd. We drew on existing research and local knowledge to examine potential effects of climate change, petroleum development, tourism, and government spending cutbacks on the sustainability of four Arctic villages. We used data across eight disciplines to develop an Arctic Community Synthesis Model and a Web-based, interactive Possible Futures Model. Results suggested that climate warming will increase vegetation biomass within the herd's summer range. However, despite forage increasing, the herd was projected as likely to decline with a warming climate because of increased insect harassment in the summer and potentially greater winter snow depths. There was a strong negative correlation between hypothetical, development-induced displacement of cows and calves from utilized calving grounds and calf survival during June. The results suggested that climate warming coupled with petroleum development would cause a decline in caribou harvest by local communities. Because the Synthesis Model inherits uncertainties associated with each component model, sensitivity analysis is required. Scientists and stakeholders agreed that (1) although simulation models are incomplete abstractions of the real world, they helped bring scientific and community knowledge together, and (2) relationships established across disciplines and between scientists and communities were a valuable outcome of the study. Additional project materials, including the Web-based Possible Futures Model, are available at http://www.taiga.net/sustain.
40928223|Episodes of drought-induced tree dieback have been recently observed in many forest areas of the world, particularly at the dry edge of species distributions. Under climate change, those effects could signal potential vegetation shifts occurring over large geographical areas, with major impacts on ecosystem form and function. In this article, we studied the effect of a single drought episode, which occurred in summer 2005, on a Scots pine population in central Pyrenees (NE Spain). Our main objective was to study the environmental correlates of forest decline and vegetation change at the plot level. General and generalized linear models were used to study the relationship between canopy defoliation, mortality and recruitment, and plot characteristics. A drought-driven multifactor dieback was observed in the study forest. Defoliation and mortality were associated with the local level of drought stress estimated at each plot. In addition, stand structure, soil properties, and mistletoe infection were also associated with the observed pattern of defoliation, presumably acting as long-term predisposing factors. Recruitment of Scots pine was low in all plots. In contrast, we observed abundant recruitment of other tree species, mostly Quercus ilex and Q. humilis, particularly in plots where Scots pine showed high defoliation and mortality. These results suggest that an altitudinal upwards migration of Quercus species, mediated by the dieback of the currently dominant species, may take place in the studied slopes. Many rear-edge populations of Scots pine sheltered in the mountain environments of the Iberian Peninsula could be at risk under future climate scenarios.
3658772| We evaluated changes in temperature and precipitation associated with climate change, subsidence, and erosion on a chronosequence of sites across Hawaii. The sites range in age from 0.3 to 4100 ky, and the current temperature and precipitation are similar at all sites. Interpretations of fossil pollen records suggest that cooler, dryer conditions prevailed in windward Hawaii during the last glacial period. If the previous glacial periods were similar, the 20-, 150-, and 1400-ky-old sites would have spent 60% or more of their development under relatively cool and dry conditions, whereas the 0.3- and 2.1-ky-old sites have experienced only the warmer, wetter climate of the present interglacial. Subsidence and erosion have also affected the temperature and precipitation of these sites over time; in the past, some of them have been in the dry air above the trade wind inversion or in the lee of larger mountains. Combining these components of change, we estimate that the average temperature over the history of Pleistocene-aged sites (20, 150, and 1400 ky) was up to 2.2C cooler and that the average precipitation was only about 50% of current values. Under current conditions, it would take only 230 ky for as much water to leach through the 1400-ky-old site as we calculate has leached over 1400 ky. Incorporating more reasonable assumptions about environmental history has the potential to allow more powerful interpretations of chronosequence data and thereby improve the predictive potential of models of soil and ecosystem development. 
25622891|Estimating root production has been difficult due to multiple potential biases associated with both old and new methods. This shortgrass steppe site is the only place we are aware of that can compare most methods including sequential coring, ingrowth cores, and ingrowth donuts, C pulse-isotope dilution, C pulse-isotope turnover, rhizotron windows, and minirhizotron, and indirect methods including nitrogen budget, carbon flux, simulation carbon flow model, and regression model. We used the studies at this site, other comparisons, a summary of potential directional biases, and different ways of calculating estimates in a logical, comparative approach of evaluating methods. Much of the literature for root production is based on sequential biomass coring, a method resulting in erroneous estimates. Root ingrowth estimates of production are generally conservative compared to minirhizotron and isotope turnover methods. The size of the ingrowth area may be the most important determinant of the understimation. Estimates based on pulse-isotope dilution are also erroneous due to non-uniform labeling of tissues. Uniform labeling is not an assumption of the pulse-isotope turnover method, and this method has the least severe potential biases. Root production estimates from pulse-isotope turnover were lower than those using minirhizotron when the most common method of calculation was used. This agrees with literature concerning bomb C continuous-isotope labeling comparisons with minirhizotron, although some potential biases between isotope methods are different. However, good agreement between pulse-isotope turnover and minirhizotron were obtained when minirhizotron estimates were calculated from regression of decomposition versus production to equilibrium and when pulse-isotope turnover estimates were calculated from two-phase life-span regressions. This minirhizotron method bypasses biases associated with the artificial surface similar to root-cohort methods that may be practical only in mesic systems, and takes into account both short- and long-lived roots and corrects for soil-isotope contamination that the continuous-isotope labeling bomb C method is not able to account for. Comparisons of these direct methods are also made with four indirect methods.
43677520|One of the most important changes taking place in drylands worldwide is the increase of the cover and dominance of shrubs in areas formerly devoid of them (shrub encroachment). A large body of research has evaluated the causes and consequences of shrub encroachment for both ecosystem structure and functioning. However, there are virtually no studies evaluating how shrub encroachment affects the ability of ecosystems to maintain multiple functions and services simultaneously (multifunctionality). We aimed to do so by gathering data from ten ecosystem functions linked to the maintenance of primary production and nutrient cycling and storage (organic C, activity of -gluco-observed when evaluating the functions in isolation. Overall, our results showed that M was higher at sites with higher sprouting shrub cover, longer distance to roads and higher perennial plant species richness. Our study is the first documenting that ecosystem multifunctionality in shrublands is enhanced by encroaching shrubs differing in size and leaf attributes. Our findings reinforce the idea sidase, pentoses, hexoses, total N, total available N, amino acids, proteins, available inorganic P, and phosphatase activity), and summarizing them in a multifunctionality index (M). We assessed how climate, species richness, anthropic factors (distance to the nearest town, sandy and asphalted road, and human population in the nearest town at several historical periods) and encroachment by sprouting shrubs impacted both the functions in isolation and M along a regional (ca. 350 km) gradient in Mediterranean grasslands and shrublands dominated by a non-sprouting shrub. Values of M were higher in those grasslands and shrublands containing sprouting shrubs (43 and 62%, respectively). A similar response was found when analyzing the different functions in isolation, as encroachment by sprouting shrubs increased functions by 2-80% compared to unencroached areas. Encroachment was the main driver of changes in M along the regional gradient evaluated, followed by anthropic factors and species richness. Climate had little effects on M in comparison to the other factors studied. Similar responses were that encroachment effects on ecosystem functioning cannot be generalized, and that are largely dependent on the traits of the encroaching shrub relative to those of the species being replaced.
40928233|Climatic variables, water quality, benthic fluxes, sediment properties, and infauna were measured six times over an annual cycle in a shallow subtropical embayment to characterize carbon and nutrient cycling, and elucidate the role of pelagicbenthic coupling. Organic carbon (OC) inputs to the bay are dominated by phytoplankton (mean 74%), followed by catchment inputs (15%), and benthic microalgae (BMA; 9%). The importance of catchment inputs was highly variable and dependent on antecedent rainfall, with significant storage of allochthonous OC in sediments following high flow events and remineralization of this material supporting productivity during the subsequent period. Outputs were dominated by benthic mineralization (mean 59% of total inputs), followed by pelagic mineralization (16%), burial (1%), and assimilation in macrofaunal biomass (2%). The net ecosystem metabolism (NEM = production minus respiration) varied between  4 and 33% (mean 9%) of total primary production, whereas the productivity/respiration (p/r) ranged between 0.96 and 1.5 (mean 1.13). Up to 100% of the NEM is potentially removed via the demersal detritivore pathway. Dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) inputs from the catchment contributed less than 1% of the total phytoplankton demand, implicating internal DIN recycling (pelagic 23% and benthic 19%) and potentially benthic dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) fluxes (27%) or  fixation (up to 47%) as important processes sustaining productivity. Although phytoplankton dominated OC inputs in this system, BMA exerted strong seasonal controls over benthic DIN fluxes, limiting pelagic productivity when mixing/photic depth approached 1.3. The results of this study suggest low DIN: TOC and net autotrophic NEM may be a significant feature of shallow sub-tropical systems where the mixing/photic depth is consistently less than 4.
41505998|Terrestrial ecosystems in the southern United States (SUS) have experienced a complex set of changes in climate, atmospheric CO concentration, tropospheric ozone (O), nitrogen (N) deposition, and land-use and land-cover change (LULCC) during the past century. Although each of these factors has received attention for its alterations on ecosystem carbon (C) dynamics, their combined effects and relative contributions are still not well understood. By using the Dynamic Land Ecosystem Model (DLEM) in combination with spatially explicit, longterm historical data series on multiple environmental factors, we examined the century-scale responses of ecosystem C storage and flux to multiple environmental changes in the SUS. The results indicated that multiple environmental changes shifted SUS ecosystems from a C source of 1.20  0.56 Pg (1 Pg = 10 g) during the period 1895 to 1950, to a C sink of 2.00  0.94 Pg during the period 1951 to 2007. Over the entire period spanning 1895-2007, SUS ecosystems were a net C sink of 0.80  0.38 Pg. The C sink was primarily due to an increase in the vegetation C pool, whereas the soil C pool decreased during the study period. The spatiotemporal changes of C storage were caused by changes in multiple environmental factors. Among the five factors examined (climate, LULCC, N deposition, atmospheric CO, and tropospheric O), elevated atmospheric CO concentration was the largest contributor to C sequestration, followed by N deposition. LULCC, climate, and tropospheric O concentration contributed to C losses during the study period. The SUS ecosystem C sink was largely the result of interactive effects among multiple environmental factors, particularly atmospheric N input and atmospheric CO.
3658918|The NITREX project, which encompasses seven ecosystem-scale experiments in coniferous forests at the plot or catchment level in northwestern Europe, investigates the effect of atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition in coniferous forests. The common factor in all of the experiments is the experimentally controlled change in N input over a period of 4-5 years. Results indicate that the status and dynamics of the forest floor are key components in determining the response of forests to altered N inputs. An empirical relationship between the carbon-nitrogen (C/N) ratio of the forest floor and retention of incoming N provides a simply measured tool through which the likely timing and consequences of changes in atmospheric N deposition for fresh waters may be predicted. In the terrestrial ecosystem, a 50% increase in tree growth is observed following the experimental reduction of N and sulfur inputs in a highly N-saturated site, illustrating the damaging effects of acidifying pollutants to tree health in some locations. Few biotic responses to the experimental treatments were observed in other NITREX sites, but the rapid response of water quality to changes in N deposition, and the link to acidification in sensitive areas, highlight the need for N-emission controls, irrespective of the long-term effects on tree health. The observed changes in ecosystem function in response to the experimental treatments have been considered within the framework of the current critical-load approach and thus contribute to the formulation of environmental policy.
40793006|The cycling of surface water, energy, nutrients, and carbon is different between semiarid grassland and shrubland ecosystems. Although differences are evident when grasslands are compared to shrublands, the processes that contribute to this transition are more challenging to document. We evaluate how surface redistribution of precipitation and plant responses to the resulting infiltration patterns could contribute to the changes that occur during the transition from grassland to shrubland. We measured soil water potential under grasses (Bouteloua eriopoda), shrubs (Larrea tridentata) and bare soil and changes in plant water relations and gas exchange following a 15 mm summer storm in the grasslandshrubland ecotone at the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in central New Mexico USA. Following the storm, soil water potential (s ) increased to 30 cm depth beneath both grass and shrub canopies, with the greatest change observed in the top 15 cm of the soil. The increase in s was greater beneath grass canopies than beneath shrub canopies. s under bare soil increased only to 5 cm depth. The substantial redistribution of rainfall and different rooting depths of the vegetation resulted in high *FS throughout most of the rooting volume of the grasses whereas soil moisture was unchanged throughout a large portion of the shrub rooting volume. Consistent with this pattern, predawn water potential (^PD) of grasses increased more than 5 MPa to greater than - 1 MPa whereas  PD of shrubs increased to 2.5 MPa, a change of less than 2 MPa. Transpiration increased roughly linearly with in both grasses and shrubs. In grasses, assimilation was strongly correlated with *FpD whereas there was no relationship in shrubs where assimilation showed no significant response to the pulse of soil moisture following the storm. These data show that preferential redistribution of water to grass canopies enhances transpiration and assimilation by grasses following large summer storms. This process may inhibit shrubland expansion at the ecotone during periods without extreme drought.
23501435|Ecosystem-based management requires integrated physical studies on biological functions. In this study, we hypothesized that seasonal variation in upwelling-favorable winds has differential influences on species of the central California Current pelagic ecosystem. To test this hypothesis, we developed multivariate indicators of upwelling and species' responses using wind and sea surface temperature (SST) data from buoys and growth and reproductive data for 11 species of fish and seabirds. From previous work, we predicted that winds and SST could be decomposed into winter and spring/ summer 'modes' of variability, but only a single mode of "winter/spring" environmental variability was observed. We attribute this difference from expectations to the local and shorter-term measurements of winds and SST used in this study. Most species responded to winds and SST variability similarly, but SST was a better predictor of most biological responses. Both SST and wind were better predictors than the traditional upwelling index. Notably, Pacific sardine (Sardinops sajax) was disassociated with the other biotic measurements and showed no relationships with coastal upwelling. The multivariate indicators developed here are particularly appropriate for integrated ecosystem assessments of climatic influences on marine life because they reflect both structure and processes (upwelling and timing/growth/productivity) known to determine functions in marine ecosystems.
41507777|Phosphorus (P) is one of main pollution elements of eutrophication. P emissions from different pathways and sources are a key issue in the protection of water quality and sustainable watershed management practices. We have estimated net anthropogenic P accumulation (NAPA), as an index of P pollution potential in the Beijing metropolitan region, China. The NAPA estimation is based on an inventory of P fertilizer use, consumption of human food and animal feed, non-food P, and riverine P net flux. The overall average NAPA for 1991, 1997, 2003, and 2007 are 777, 943, 1218, and 1084 kg P km y, about two times that reported in developed countries. The Urban unit has the largest NAPA (5526 kg P km y), whereas Mentougou P was negative, outputting 34 kg P km y. P input of fertilizer is the largest source of NAPA, accounting for 40.7% (455 kg P km y) of the total P input, followed by non-food P and P in human food and animal feed. NAPA is closely related to land use, on average 5433 kg P km y in densely populated developed land, 503 kg P km y in agricultural land and 84 kg P km y in forest land. Human population density is the best single predictor of NAPA. Our results provide a basis for understanding the potential impact of anthropogenic P inputs on environmental problems, such as nation-wide water quality degradation under the current rapid urban expansion in modern China.
40603509|Atmospheric nitrogen (N) fixation by Alnus tenuifolia can account for up to 70% of the N accumulated during vegetation development along river floodplains in interior Alaska. We assessed disease incidence and related mortality of a recent outbreak of fungal stem cankers on A. tenuifolia across three regions in Alaska during the 2005 growing season, and determined the impacts on N-fixation rates, nodule biomass, and stand-level N-fixation inputs. The highest percentage of ramets colonized or dead with canker was found on Tanana River plots, suggesting the epidemic is most severe in the Fairbanks region. A positive relationship between % basal area loss to canker and % canopy loss provides a simple means for assessing stand-level mortality associated with disease in the field. Although specific N-fixation (SNF) rates were not influenced by canker disease incidence of individual genets, live nodule biomass beneath alder canopies was inversely correlated with the percentage of ramets dead or with main ramet canker. Variations in SNF and live nodule biomass translated to differences in N-fixation inputs, which ranged from 22 to 107 kg N ha y across study regions. Nodule biomass was reduced by incidence of canker disease and related mortality an average of 24% across all sites, which translates to N input reductions of 8, 16, and 33 kg N ha for the three regions, respectively. During the 2008 growing season, we resurveyed the Tanana River plots and found that of the ramets larger than 4-cm diameter having main ramet canker in 2005, 74% are now dead; and for those without main ramet canker in 2005, 25% have developed main ramet canker, and 8% are dead. Thus, it is likely that N-fixation inputs have declined further below what we estimated for 2005.
41505963|Assessment of forest carbon (C) stock and sequestration and the influence of forest harvesting and climatic variations are important issues in global forest ecology. Quantitative studies of the C balance of tropical forests, such as those in Papua New Guinea (PNG), are also required for forest-based climate change mitigation initiatives. We develop a hierarchical Bayesian model (HBM) of aboveground forest C stock and sequestration in primary, selectively harvested, and El Nio Southern Oscillation (ENSO)-effected lowland tropical forest from 15 years of Permanent Sample Plot (PSP) census data for PNG consisting of 121 plots in selectively harvested forest, and 35 plots in primary forest. Model parameters indicated: C stock in aboveground live biomass (AGLB) of 137  9 (95% confidence interval (CI)) MgC ha in primary forest, compared with 62  18 MgC ha for selectively harvested forest (55% difference); C sequestration in primary forest of 0.23  1.70 MgC ha y, which was lower than in selectively harvested forest, 1.12  3.41 MgC ha y; ENSO-induced fire resulted in significant C emissions (6.87  3.94 MgC ha y). High variability between PSPs in C stock and C sequestration rates necessitated random plot effects for both stock and sequestration. The HBM approach allowed inclusion of hierarchical autocorrelation, providing valid CIs on model parameters and efficient estimation. The HBM model has provided quantitative insights on the C balance of PNG's forests that can be used as inputs for climate change mitigation initiatives.
25470324|Net ecosystem production (NEP), defined as the difference between gross primary production and total ecosystem respiration, represents the total amount of organic carbon in an ecosystem available for storage, export as organic carbon, or nonbiological oxidation to carbon dioxide through fire or ultraviolet oxidation. In some of the recent literature, especially that on terrestrial ecosystems, NEP has been redefined as the rate of organic carbon accumulation in the system. Here we argue that retaining the original definition maintains the conceptual coherence between NEP and net primary production and that it is congruous with the widely accepted definitions of ecosystem autotrophy and heterotrophy. Careful evaluation of NEP highlights the various potential fates of nonrespired carbon in an ecosystem.
43677502|In most temperate forest ecosystems, tree mortality over time generates downed logs that accumulate as coarse woody debris (CWD) on the forest floor. These downed logs and trunks have important recognized ecosystem functions including habitat for different organisms and long-term organic C storage. Due to its recalcitrant chemical composition and slow decomposition, CWD can also have direct effects on ecosystem carbon and nutrient turnover. CWD could also cause changes indirectly through the physical and chemical alterations that it generates, although it is not well-understood how important these indirect effects could be for ecosystem processes and soil biogeochemistry. We hypothesized that in an old-growth mature forest, CWD affects carbon and nutrient cycles through its "proximity effects", meaning that the forest floor near CWD would have altered soil biotic activity due to the environmental and biogeochemical effects of the presence of CWD. We conducted our study in an old-growth southern beech temperate forest in Patagonia, Argentina, where we estimated and classified the distribution and mass, nutrient pools and decay stage of CWD on the forest floor, and evaluated its impact on litter decomposition, soil mites and soil enzymatic activity of carbon and phosphorus-degrading enzymes. We demonstrate here that CWD in this ecosystem represents an important organic carbon reservoir (85 Mg ha) and nitrogen pool (0.42 Mg ha), similar in magnitude to other old-growth forests of the Northern Hemisphere. In addition, we found significant proximity effects of CWD, with increased C-degrading soil enzyme activity, decreased mite abundance, and more rapid litter decomposition beneath highly decayed CWD. Considered at the ecosystem scale in this forest, the removal of CWD could cause a decrease of 6% in soil enzyme activity, particularly in the summer dry season, and nearly 15% in annual litter decomposition. We conclude that beyond the established importance of CWD as a long-term carbon reservoir and habitat, CWD contributes functionally to the forest floor by influencing the spatial heterogeneity of microbial activity and carbon and nutrient turnover. These proximity effects demonstrate the importance of maintenance of this ecosystem component and should be taken into consideration for management decisions pertaining to carbon sequestration and functional diversity in natural forest ecosystems.
25470410|In 2001-03, continuous eddy covariance measurements of carbon dioxide (CO) flux were made above mature boreal aspen, black spruce, and jack pine forests in Saskatchewan, Canada, prior to and during a 3-year drought. During the 1st drought year, ecosystem respiration (R) was reduced at the aspen site due to the drying of surface soil layers. Gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) increased as a result of a warm spring and a slow decrease of deep soil moisture. These conditions resulted in the highest annual net ecosystem productivity (NEP) in the 9 years of flux measurements at this site. During 2002 and 2003, a reduction of 6% and 34% in NEP, respectively, compared to 2000 was observed as the result of reductions in both R and GEP, indicating a conservative response to the drought. Although the drought affected most of western Canada, there was considerable spatial variability in summer rainfall over the 100-km extent of the study area; summer rainfalls in 2001 and 2002 at the two conifer sites minimized the impact of the drought. In 2003, however, precipitation was similarly low at all three sites. Due to low topographic position and consequent poor drainage at the black spruce site and the coarse soil with low water-holding capacity at the jack pine site almost no reduction in R, GEP, and NEP was observed at these two sites. This study shows that the impact of drought on carbon sequestration by boreal forest ecosystems strongly depends on rainfall distribution, soil characteristics, topography, and the presence of vegetation that is well adapted to these conditions.
40296270|Ecological and evolutionary processes in temporary rock pools operate within constraints imposed by their hydrologic regimes. These shallow pools flood when seasonal rains accumulate on impermeable substrates. Despite the ecological importance of hydrologic conditions for these ecosystems, we typically lack tools and empirical data required to understand the implications of hydrologic variability and climate change for biotic populations and communities in these habitats. In this study, we developed a hydrologic model to simulate rock pool hydrologic regimes based on rainfall evapotranspiration, and basin geometry. The model was used to investigate long-term patterns of seasonal and interannual variation in hydroregime. In addition, hydrologic conditions associated with potential climate change scenarios were simulated and evaluated with respect to the biological requirements of the anostracan Branchipodopsis wolfi. The model's output for daily inundation matched with field observations with an overall accuracy of 85% and correctly estimated complete hydroperiods with an overall accuracy of 70%. Simulations indicate large variation in individual hydroperiods (76-115%) as well as in the number of hydroperiods per year (19-23%). Furthermore, this study suggests that climate change may significantly alter the rock pool hydroregime. These findings confirm the hydrologic sensitivity of these ephemeral habitats to precipitation patterns, and their potential sensitivity to future climate change. Modelling indicates that the suitability of average inundation conditions for B. wolfi deteriorates significantly under future climate predictions. High levels of spatial and temporal variation in hydrologic conditions are dominant features of these habitats and an essential consideration for understanding population and community-level ecological processes.
3658704|Selective foraging by large mammals can change ecosystem properties such as plant species composition, nutrient cycling rates, and soil fertility. These changes, in turn, alter the availability of forage and could affect the relative efficiencies of foraging strategies used by these animals. We used a simulation model to predict how alternate foraging strategies affected the net annual energy balance of moose (Alces alces), moose density, and distribution of browse across the landscape. The model simulates the spatial distribution of vegetation in an 8-ha landscape of 1- m
41505894|Natural braided river floodplains typically possess high groundwatersurface water exchange, which is vital to the overall function and structure of these complex ecosystems. Spring-fed streams on the floodplain are also hotspots of benthic invertebrate diversity and productivity. The sources of carbon that drive these productive spring-fed systems are not well-known. We conducted field assessments and a manipulation, modeling, and a laboratory experiment to address this issue. Initially C values of both dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) and food-web components of five springs were used to assess the sources of carbon to spring food webs. Partial pressures of CO in upwelling water ranged from 2 to 7 times atmospheric pressure, but rapidly approached equilibrium with the atmosphere downstream commensurate with C enrichment of DIC. Speciation modeling and a laboratory out-gassing experiment suggested that downstream changes in pH could be explained solely by CO out-gassing. However, field results indicated that both out-gassing and photosynthetic drawdown by aquatic plants controlled the net flux of CO. A whole stream manipulation indicated out-gassing was the primary effect at the spring source, which was confirmed by invariant diel pH. At 1296 m downstream from the spring source a large diel shift in pH indicated a plant effect on CO concentration which would contribute to the overall downstream gradient in C DIC. Within the first 1296 m the gradient in  DIC was transmitted through three trophic levels of the spring food web. These findings indicate dependency on groundwater inorganic carbon by spring stream food webs and strong hydrologically mediated linkages connecting terrestrial, subsurface, and aquatic components of the floodplain.
25622871|Carbon biogeochemistry of a tropical ecosystem (The Cochin Estuary, India) undergoing increased human intervention was studied during February (premonsoon), April (early monsoon) and September (monsoon) 2005. The Cochin estuary sustains high levels of pCO (up to 6000 atm) and CO effluxes (up to 274 mmolC m d) especially during monsoon. A first-order estimate of the carbon mass balance shows that net production of dissolved inorganic carbon is an order of magnitude higher than the net loss of dissolved and particulate organic carbon from the estuary. This imbalance is attributed to the organic inputs to the estuary through anthropogenic supplies. The bacteria-mediated mineralization of organic matter is mainly responsible for the build-up of pCO and increased CO emission to the atmosphere indicating heterotrophy. The linear correlation between excess CO and apparent oxygen utilization indicates respiration as the chief mechanism for CO supersaturation. An increase in the net negative ecosystem production (-ve NEP) between premonsoon (136 mmolC m d or 376 MgC d) and monsoon (541 mmolC m d or 1500 MgC d) is supported by a corresponding increase in O influxes from 17 mmol O m d (126 MgC d) to 128 mmol O m d (946 MgC d) and CO emissions from 65 mmolC m d (180 MgC d) to 267 mmolC m d (740 MgC d). There is a significant north-south gradient in metabolic rates and CO fluxes attributable to the varying flow patterns and anthropogenic inputs into the estuary. The study reveals that the Cochin estuary, a previously autotrophic (CO sink) system, has been transformed to a heterotrophic (CO source) system following rapid urbanization and industrialization. Moreover, the export fluxes from the Cochin estuary appear to be quite important in sustaining net heterotrophy in the southeastern Arabian Sea.
23501501|Food webs are increasingly evaluated at the landscape scale, accounting for spatial interactions involving different nutrient and energy channels. Also, while long viewed as static, food webs are increasingly seen as dynamic entities that assemble during vegetation succession. The next necessary step is, therefore, to link nutrient flows between ecosystems to local food web assembly processes. In this study, we used a 100-year salt marsh succession in which we investigated the long-term changes in food web organization, especially focusing on the balance between internal versus external nutrient sources. We found that during food web assembly, the importance of internal (terrestrial) nutrient cycling increases at the expense of external (marine) inputs. This change from external to internal nutrient cycling is associated with strong shifts in the basis of energy channels within the food web. In early succession, detritivores are mostly fuelled by marine inputs whereas in later succession they thrive on locally produced plant litter, with consequences for their carnivores. We conclude that this 100 years of food web assembly proceeds by gradual decoupling of terrestrial nutrient cycling from the marine environment, and by associated rearrangements in the herbivore and detritivore energy channels. Food web assembly thus interacts with nutrient and energy flows across ecosystem boundaries.
23328065|We evaluated the effects of different land-use systems on the ability of dung beetles to control the population of detritus-feeding flies. We tested the hypotheses that intensification of land use will reduce dung beetles richness, abundance and biomass and, consequently, their dung burial ability, affecting the interaction between dung beetles and flies and reducing its effectiveness as a natural biological control. In the Brazilian Amazon we sampled dung beetles, fly larvae and adults; and recorded the rate of dung removal by dung beetles across a gradient of land-use intensity from primary forest, secondary forest, agroforestry, agriculture to pasture. Our results provide evidence that land-use intensification results in a reduction of the richness, abundance and biomass of dung beetles, and this in turn results in lower rates of dung removal in the most simplified systems. We found no significant differences in the abundance of fly larvae between the different systems of land use. However, the number of adult flies differed significantly between land-use systems, presenting higher abundance in those sites with greater intensity of use (pasture and agriculture) and a lower abundance of adult flies in forested systems (primary and secondary forests, and agroforestry). Information-theoretic model selection based on AICc revealed strong support for the influence of land-use systems, dung removal rates and dung beetle abundance, biomass and richness on adult dung-fly abundance. Our results also reveal that dung beetles are not solely responsible for fly control and that other factors linked to land use are influencing the populations of these detritus-feeding insects.
40793012|Large amounts (389  39 m ha) of preserved dead wood buried by bryophytes were found in the organic layer (OL) of overmature (146-to 204-yearold) black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S.P.) forests in the high-boreal forest of eastern Canada. Standreplacing wildfires consumed the organic layer and killed the previous stands, producing snags, which subsequently fell and became buried by moss, resulting in large amounts of wood buried deep in the current organic layer. As new forest stands developed, self-thinning and senescence continuously produced minor amounts of woody debris (WD) for burial, most of which was located in the upper half of the organic layer. The experimental burial of standardized sample logs at various depths in the organic layer showed that burial significantly decreased WD temperature, increased WD moisture content, and tended to decrease WD respiration rates, indicative of reduced decomposition activity. WD preservation may be initiated by a live bryophyte cover, providing thermal insulation and moisture retention, generating an environment unfavorable to decomposition. As bryophytes are a vital component of many coniferous ecosystems throughout the circumpolar boreal and mountain forests, conditions conducive to WD burial are likely widespread. Buried wood may thus be of global relevance as habitat and a large mid-to long-term carbon store.
23501482|Antarctic sea ice and the cold waters surrounding the continent are key elements of the global climate system, influencing heat redistribution, oceanic circulation and the absorption of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. However, the Southern Ocean is predicted to warm by 16C over the next century, altering sea ice extent, thickness and permanence. To better understand the connections between coastal sea ice conditions and the functioning of Antarctica's unique marine benthic ecosystems, we performed manipulative experiments on the seafloor at two southwestern Ross Sea sites with contrasting sea ice conditions. Benthic systems at both study sites were net heterotrophic during the study period (early November), with primary production most likely limited by light availability rather than nutrients. There was five times more fresh algal detrital material in benthic sediments at the site with the thinner, snow-free, annually formed sea ice, relative to the site with thicker, multiyear sea ice. This elevated quantity and quality of algal detrital matter corresponded with a significantly greater rate of sediment oxygen utilization by the benthos and an altered pathway of nitrogen regeneration (tighter coupling between nitrification and denitrification). Large benthic animals (brittle stars, Ophionotus victoriae) enhanced the efflux of dissolved inorganic nutrients from the sediment to the water column and played a greater role in nutrient regeneration at the site with more food. Although changes in sea ice characteristics in the Western Ross Sea are difficult to predict at present, large benthic organisms can be expected to have an expanded role in mediating the effects of elevated coastal productivity and detritus supply on ecosystem dynamics in this part of Antarctica.
40296356|Restoration of anthropogenically eutrophied lake ecosystems is difficult due to feedback mechanisms that stabilize the trophically degraded state. Here, we show rapid recovery of a eutrophic stratified lake in response to multiple restoration that targeted the feedback mechanisms of high external and internal nutrient loads, lack of a trophic cascade, and lack of structured littoral habitats. Lake Tiefwarensee (Germany) was exposed to aluminium and calcium treatment and fisheries management over 5 years. Within this period, in-lake phosphorus concentrations declined by more than 80%, and transparency, zooplankton biomass and fish assemblage structure and biomass responded immediately and almost linearly to the reduction in phosphorus concentrations. Phytoplankton biomass and chlorophyll a (chl a) concentrations likewise decreased in response to restoration, but the declining trend was interrupted by one recovery year with unusually high phytoplankton biomasses. The zooplanktomphytoplankton biomass ratio and the chl a: phosphorus ratio approached values observed in other stratified lakes during natural recovery from eutrophication. The slow response of Tiefwarensee to the reduction of external load, and the quick response to the chemical treatment suggest that the disruption of internal P recycling and loading was the decisive restoration measure in Tiefwarensee. The external load reduction was a necessary but not sufficient measure, at least in the short-term, whereas the low-effort fisheries management was of minor importance. A comparison with other case studies confirms that measures aiming to inactivate phosphorus are the most efficient approaches to restore stratified lakes in the short-term, but a shift to a permanent near-pristine state is possible only by additional P input control.
3658645|Human societies are confronted with a continuous stream of new problems. Many of these problems are caused by a limited sector of society but cause "spillover costs" to society as a whole. Here we show how a combination of mechanisms tends to delay effective regualtion of such situations. Obviously, problems may remain undetected for some time, especially if they are unlike those experienced in the past. However, it is at least as important to address the dynamics preceding the solution because societies that are systematically slow in suppressing problems in the early phases will pay a high overall cost. Here we show how a combination of mechanisms tends to delay effective regulation. Obviously, problems may remain undetected for some time, especially if it is unlike those experienced in the past. However, even if a problem is recognized by experts, the time lag before society in general recognizes that something should be done can be long because of the hysteresis in change of opinion. This causes abrupt but late shifts in opinion, much as described for Kuhn's paradigm shifts. We use a mathematical model and review empirical evidence to show that this phenomenon will be particularly pronounced for complex problems and in societies that have strong social control, whereas key individuals such as charismatic leaders may catalyze earlier opinion shifts, reducing the time lag between problem and solution. An opinion shift may also be inhibited by downplay of a problem by a credible authority and by competition for attention by simultaneously occurring problems. Even if a problem is generally recognized, actual regulation may come late. We argue that this last phase of delay tends to be longer if a central decision-making authority is lacking and if disproportionately powerful stakeholders that benefit from the unregulated status quo are involved.
3658915|The results of bottle and mesocosm experiments were compared with those obtained in whole-ecosystem experiments at the Experimental Lakes Area. Unless they can be cleverly designed to mimic major ecosystem processes and community compositions, smaller-scale experiments often give highly replicable, but spurious, answers. Problems with appropriate scaling are difficult to deduce without direct comparisons with whole-ecosystem experiments. Reasons are many, but include inappropriate spatial scales to include whole communities, in particular predators and nocturnally active animals; temporal scales that are too short to assess accurately the response of slow-responding organisms and biogeochemical processes; and elimination of key littoral-pelagic and catchment-lake interactions. Identical studies of limnological processes in lakes of a large range of sizes reveals that scaling correction is also necessary when extrapolating from small lakes to large ones. Accurate management decisions cannot be made with confidence unless ecosystem scales are studied.
40296364|For the first time in an arctic long-term warming and fertilization experiment, the short-term (days) and longer-term (month and year) nitrogen (N) uptake and allocation in plants, microbes, and soil pools were studied, with N-labeling of an organic nitrogen form, glycine. The long-term warming and fertilization had no marked effect on soil inorganic N content, but both dissolved organic N (DON) and plant biomass did increase after fertilization. Soil microbes initially immobilized most of the added N, but in the following months, they lost two-thirds, while label concentration in plants increased. After a year, however, the N recovered in microbes was still 10-fold higher than that in the plant biomass, showing the high importance of soil microbes in nutrient retention in arctic ecosystems, irrespective of the impact of long-term warming or fertilization. The effects of the treatments on the uptake of label by deciduous shrubs and evergreens paralleled that of their N pool sizes, suggesting that their N uptake potential was unaffected by longterm warming and fertilizer addition. Mosses and herbs had high uptake potential but in fertilized plots they took up less N, that is, they were N saturated. The fraction of N in microbes tended to decrease after fertilization, but this was an effect of higher N pool dilution after 1 month and a year, and not due to lower initial uptake. Although the concentration of soil inorganic N did not change after fertilization, both increased DON and the results of the N label addition showed that the N availability in the ecosystem had increased. By contrast, warming had little effect on soil N pools and microbial N uptake, and, hence, had no detectable effects on N accumulation.
3658849|We studied invertebrate communities across a transition zone between soils and stream sediments in the cold desert landscape of Taylor Valley, Antarctica. We hypothesized that hydrological and biogeochemical linkages in the functionally important transition zone between streams and surrounding soils should be important in structuring invertebrate communities. We compared invertebrate communities along transects beginning in the saturated sediments under flowing stream water and extending laterally through the hyporheic zone to the dry soils that characterize most of the dry valley landscape. Nematodes, rotifers, and tardigrades assembled into different communities in soils and sediments, but there was no relationship between the total abundance of invertebrates and moisture. Community diversity was, however, influenced by the moisture and salinity gradients created with distance from flowing waters. The wet, low-salinity sediments in the center of the stream contained the most invertebrates and had the highest taxonomic diversity. Adjacent to the stream, communities in the hyporheic zone were influenced strongly by salt deposition. Abundance of invertebrates was low in the hyporheic zone, but this area contained the most co-occurring nematode species (three species). In dry soils, communities were composed almost entirely of a single species of nematode, Scottnema lindsayae, an organism not found in the stream center. These results suggest spatially-partitioned niches for invertebrates in soils and sediments in the dry valley landscape based on proximity to sources of moisture and the interactive effects of salinity.
25470378|Water availability defines and is the most frequent control on processes in arid and semiarid ecosystems. Despite widespread recognition of the importance of water in dry areas, knowledge about key processes in the water balance is surprisingly limited. How water is partitioned between evaporation and transpiration is an area about which ecosystem ecologists have almost no information. We used a daily time step soil water model and 39 years of data to describe the ecohydrology of a shortgrass steppe and investigate how manipulation of soil and vegetation variables influenced the partitioning of water loss between evaporation and transpiration. Our results emphasize the overwhelming importance of two environmental factors in influencing water balance processes in the semiarid shortgrass steppe; high and relatively constant evaporative demand of the atmosphere and a low and highly variable precipitation regime. These factors explain the temporal dominance of dry soil. Annually and during the growing season 60-80% of the days have soil water potentials less than or equal to -1.5 MPa. In the 0-15 cm layer, evaporation accounts for half of total water loss and at 15-30 cm it accounts for one third of the loss. Annual transpiration/actual evapotranspiration (T/AET) ranged from 0.4-0.75 with a mean of 0.51. The key controls on both T/AET and evaporation/actual evapotranspiration in order of their importance were aboveground biomass, seasonality of biomass, soil texture, and precipitation. High amounts of biomass and late timing of the peak resulted in the highest values of T/AET.
3658613|Although deforestation continues to be a major threat to tropical biodiversity, abandonment of agricultural land in Puerto Rico provides an opportunity to study long-term patterns of secondary forest regeneration. Using aerial photographs from 1937, 1967, and 1995, we determined land-use history for 2443 ha in the Cayey Mountains. Pastures were the dominant land cover in 1937 and <20% of the area was classified as forest. Between 1937 and 1995, forest cover increased to 62% due to widespread abandonment of agriculture. To examine the effect of historic land use on current forest structure and species composition, we sampled secondary forests in 24 abandoned pastures, 9 abandoned coffee plantations and 4 old-growth forest sites. Sites were located on two soil types along an elevational gradient (125-710 m) and included a chronosequence from 4 to over 80 years old. After 25-30 years, basal area and species richness in secondary forest sites derived from abandoned pastures and coffee plantations were similar to old-growth forest sites. The species composition of secondary forests derived from abandoned pastures and coffee plantations remained distinct from old-growth forest. In addition to historic land use, age and elevation were important environmental variables explaining variation in secondary forest species composition. Non-indigenous species were common in recently abandoned pastures and coffee plantations, but their importance declined in the older sites. This study demonstrates that secondary forests on private land can be an important component of the conservation of tropical tree biodiversity.
23501484|After rainfall and soils, fire and herbivory are two of the main determinants of savanna ecosystems. Although the interactive effects of fire and herbivores on soil and vegetation are widely acknowledged few studies have addressed these two factors in concert, and none of the studies has focused on the Kalahari sand system. We experimentally studied how annual late dry season fires and grazing affect herbaceous plant species composition, above- and belowground biomass, and soil and grass nutrient concentrations in the nutrient-poor semi-arid Kalahari system in northern Botswana. Four treatments (fire, grazing, fire + grazing, and no-fireno-grazing) were applied for two consecutive years in the late dry season. Plant species composition was affected by treatment and year. The no-fireno-grazing treatment was distinctly different from all the other treatments in terms of species composition. Beta diversity was lower on the fire treatment and grazing treatment, but not where fire and grazing were combined. Fire and grazing alone or in combination did not have a substantial effect on biomass, soil and plant nutrients or plant species alpha diversity. Plant nitrogen was the only element that differed between treatments, with high concentrations on all the grazed treatments in the first year and low levels on the fire-alone treatment during the second year. The results show that fire and grazing mainly affect species composition and large-scale biodiversity patterns as indicated by the no-fireno-grazing treatment being distinctly different from other treatments, suggesting the evolutionary adaptation of this dystrophic Kalahari sand system to herbivory and fire.
3658805|Ecosystems that function as critical transition zones (CTZs) among terrestrial, freshwater, and marine habitats are closely connected to the ecosystems adjacent to them and are characterized by a rapid flux of materials and organisms. CTZs play various roles, including mediating water flows, accumulating sediments and organic matter, processing nutrients, and providing opportunities for recreation. They are particularly difficult to manage because they tend to be small, albeit important, components of large water-sheds, and managers may not have control over the entire landscape. Moreover, they are often the focus of intensive human activity. Consequently, CTZs are critically important zones, and their preservation and protection are likely to require unique collaboration among scientists, managers, and stakeholders. Scientists can learn a great deal from the study of these ecosystems, taking advantage of small size and the importance of fluxes, but a good understanding of adaptive management strategies is needed to establish a dialogue with managers and stakeholders on technical and management issues. An understanding of risk analysis is also important to help set meaningful goals and establish logical strategies that include all of the interested parties. Successful restoration of a CTZ is the best test of the quality of knowledge about its structure and function. Much has already been learned about coastal CTZs through restoration projects, and the large number of such projects involving riparian CTZs in particular suggests that there is considerable opportunity for fruitful collaborations between scientists and managers.
40296293|Our understanding of the controls and magnitudes of regional CO exchanges in the Arctic are limited by uncertainties due to spatial heterogeneity in vegetation across the landscape and temporal variation in environmental conditions through the seasons. We measured daytime net ecosystem CO exchange and each of its component fluxes in the three major tundra ecosystem-types that typically occur along natural moisture gradients in the Canadian Low Arctic biweekly during the full snow-free season of 2004. In addition, we used a plant-removal treatment to compare the contribution of bulk soil organic matter to total respiratory CO loss among these ecosystems. Net CO exchange rates varied strongly, but not consistently, among ecosystems in the spring and summer phases as a result of ecosystem-specific and differing responses of gross photosynthesis and respiration to temporal variation in environmental conditions. Overall net carbon gain was largest in the wet sedge ecosystem and smallest in the dry heath. Our measures of CO flux variation within each ecosystem were frequently most closely correlated with air or soil temperatures during each seasonal phase. Nevertheless, a particularly large rainfall event in early August rapidly decreased respiration rates and stimulated gross photosynthetic rates, resulting in peak rates of net carbon gain in all ecosystems. Finally, the bulk soil carbon contribution to total respiration was relatively high in the birch hummock ecosystem. Together, these results demonstrate that the relative influences of moisture and temperature as primary controls on daytime net ecosystem CO exchange and its component fluxes differ in fundamental ways between the landscape and ecosystem scales. Furthermore, they strongly suggest that carbon cycling responses to environmental change are likely to be highly ecosystem-specific, and thus to vary substantially across the low arctic landscape.
23501485|Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) perform important ecological roles in stream ecosystems by provisioning nutrients as resource subsidies and modifying their physical habitat as ecosystem engineers. These contrasting roles result in concurrent nutrient enrichment and benthic disturbance, where local environmental characteristics potentially determine which effect predominates. Whole-stream metabolism quantifies the functional response to salmon and may identify patterns in enrichment and disturbance not apparent from structural measurements alone. We measured ecosystem respiration (ER) and gross primary production (GPP), along with chemical and physical characteristics, in seven Southeast Alaska streams and two Michigan streams, before and during the salmon run. These streams in the native and introduced ranges of salmon differed in environmental characteristics, from geomorphology at the reach scale to climate at the biome scale. Salmon consistently increased ER across streams and biomes, from an average (SE) of 1.92  0.23 g O 2 m -2 d -1 before salmon to 6.30  1.08 g O 2 m -2 d -1 during the run. In the cobble-bottom streams of Southeast Alaska, GPP doubled from 0.29  0.05 g O 2 m -2 d -1 before salmon to 0.66  0.16 g O 2 m -2 d -1 during the run. In contrast, GPP responded inconsistently to salmon in the sand-bottom Michigan streams, increasing in one and decreasing in the other. Patterns in ER and GPP among streams and time periods were predicted by stream water nutrients (for example, ammonium, soluble reactive phosphorus) rather than by physical characteristics (for example, light, sediment size, and so on). This study demonstrates that salmon can periodically override physical controls on ER and GPP and enhance whole-stream metabolism via their dual ecological roles as both resource subsidies and ecosystem engineers.
3659002| Forests with nitrogen-fixing trees (N-fixers) typically accumulate more carbon (C) in soils than similar forests without N-fixing trees. This difference may develop from fundamentally different processes, with either greater accumulation of recently fixed C or reduced decomposition of older soil C. We compared the soil C pools under N-fixers with Eucalyptus (non-N-fixers) at four tropical sites: two sites on Andisol soils in Hawaii and two sites on Vertisol and Entisol soils in Puerto Rico. Using stable carbon isotope techniques, we tracked the loss of the soil organic C from the previous C
3658982|Light interception is a driving variable for many key ecosystem processes in forests. Canopy gaps, as natural irregularities, are common features of Pacific Northwest conifer forests and have profound importance on the within-canopy light environment. We used two spatially explicit radiative transfer models (OLTREE and SolTran) to understand better the vertical profile distribution of light penetration in an old-growth forest. Canopy access at the Wind River Canopy Crane Research Facility provided an opportunity to apply these models in a tall, old-growth, Douglas-fir-western hemlock forest. Both models required three-dimensional descriptions for every crown (location, orientation, and size) in a 4-ha area. Crowns were then simulated as foliage-filled ellipsoids through which light is attenuated following Beer's law. We simulated vertical profiles (2-m height intervals) of transmitted photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) in 16 gaps previously measured by Parker (1997). Point-by-point comparisons (n = 480) between measured and modeled results showed little agreement because small errors in crown location yielded large local differences in PAR transmittance. However, average gap profiles (n = 16) of PAR transmittance showed excellent agreement
23501475|Belowground carbon (C) dynamics of terrestrial ecosystems play an important role in the global C cycle and thereby in climate regulation. Globally, land-use change is a major driver of changes in belowground C storage. The emerging bioenergy industry is likely to drive widespread land-use changes, including the replacement of annually tilled croplands with perennial bioenergy crops, and thereby to impact the climate system through alteration of belowground C dynamics. Mechanistic understanding of how land-use changes impact belowground C storage requires elucidation of changes in belowground C flows; however, altered belowground C dynamics following land-use change have yet to be thoroughly quantified through field measurements. Here, we show that belowground C cycling pathways of establishing perennial bioenergy crops (0- to 3.5-year-old miscanthus, switchgrass, and a native prairie mix) were substantially altered relative to row crop agriculture (corn-soy rotation); specifically, there were substantial increases in belowground C allocation (>400%), belowground biomass (400750%), root-associated respiration (up to 2,500%), moderate reductions in litter inputs (2040%), and respiration in root-free soil (up to 50%). This more active root-associated C cycling of perennial vegetation provides a mechanism for observed net C sequestration by these perennial ecosystems, as well as commonly observed increases in soil C under perennial bioenergy crops throughout the world. The more active root-associated belowground C cycle of perennial vegetation implies a climate benefit of grassland maintenance or restoration, even if biomass is harvested annually for bioenergy production.
27823718|Freshwater ecosystems derive organic carbon from both allochthonous and autochthonous sources. We studied the relative contributions of different carbon sources to zooplankton in a small, polyhumic, steeply stratified lake, using six replicate surface-to-sediment enclosures established during summer and autumn 2004. We added 13C-enriched bicarbonate to the epilimnion of half the enclosures for three weeks during each season and monitored carbon stable isotope ratios of DIC, DOC, POC and Daphnia, along with physical, chemical and biological variables. During summer, 13C-enriched DIC (13C up to 44  7.2) was soon taken up by phytoplankton (13C up to 5.1  13.6) and was transmitted to Daphnia (13C up to 1.7  7.2), demonstrating consumption of phytoplankton. In contrast, during autumn, 13C-enriched DIC (13C up to 56.3  9.8) was not transmitted to Daphnia, whose 13C became progressively lower (13C down to 45.6  3.3) concomitant with decreasing methane concentration. Outputs from a model suggested phytoplankton contributed 6484% of Daphnia diet during summer, whereas a calculated pelagic carbon mass balance indicated only 3040% could have come from phytoplankton. Although autumn primary production was negligible, zooplankton biomass persisted at the summer level. The model suggested methanotrophic bacteria contributed 6487% of Daphnia diet during autumn, although the calculated carbon mass balance indicated a contribution of 37112%. Thus methanotrophic bacteria could supply virtually all the carbon requirement of Daphnia during autumn in this lake. The strongly 13C-depleted Daphnia values, together with the outputs from the models and the calculated carbon mass balance showed that methanotrophic bacteria can be a greater carbon source for Daphnia in lakes than previously suspected.
25470338|We examined potential large-scale controls over the distribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and their host plants. Specifically, we tested the hypothesis that AM fungi should be more prevalent in biomes where nutrients are primarily present in mineral, and not organic, forms. Values of percentage root length colonized (%RLC) by AM fungi, AM abundance, and host plant availability were compiled or calculated from published studies to determine biome-level means. Altogether, 151 geographic locations and nine biomes were represented. Percent RLC differed marginally significantly among biomes and was greatest in savannas. AM abundance (defined as total standing root length colonized by AM fungi) varied 63-fold, with lowest values in boreal forests and highest values in temperate grasslands. Biomes did not differ significantly in the percentage of plant species that host AM fungi, averaging 75%. Contrary to the hypothesis, %RLC, AM abundance, and host plant availability were not related to the size, influx, or turnover rate of soil organic matter pools. Instead, AM abundance was positively correlated with standing stocks of fine roots. The global pool of AM biomass within roots might approach 1.4 Pg dry weight. We note that regions harboring the largest stocks of AM fungi are also particularly vulnerable to anthropogenic nitrogen deposition, which could potentially alter global distributions of AM fungi in the near future.
3658921|We compared the species composition, structure and selected components of the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) budgets of similar-aged, mature boreal jack pine (Pinus banksiana Lamb.) forests with and without green alder [Alnus crispa (Ait.) Pursh.] in two different boreal environments. The C and N content of the overstory biomass components (for example, stem, branch, and foliage), total vegetation, forest floor, and mineral soil were greater (P = 0.05 to P = 0.10) for jack pine with alder (JPA) stands than for jack pine without alder (JP) stands at both study areas. Jack pine foliage N isotopic discrimination (
41507794|Sources of variation among the chemical and spectral properties of tropical forest canopies are poorly understood, yet chemical traits reveal potential ecosystem and phylogenetic controls, and spectral linkages to chemical traits are needed for remote sensing of functional and biological diversity. We analyzed 21 leaf traits in 395 fully sunlit canopies, representing 232 species and multiple growth forms, in a lowland mixed dipterocarp forest of Sarawak, Malaysia. Leaf traits related to light capture and growth (for example, photosynthetic pigments, nutrients) were up to 55% lower, and defense traits (for example, phenols, lignin) were 1540% higher, in the dominant family Dipterocarpaceae and in its genus Shorea, as compared to all other canopy species. The chemical variation within Dipterocarpaceae and Shorea was equivalent to that of all other canopy species combined, highlighting the role that a single phylogenetic branch can play in creating canopy chemical diversity. Seventeen of 21 traits had more than 50% of their variation explained by taxonomic grouping, and at least 16 traits show a connection to remotely sensed spectroscopic signatures (RMSE < 15%). It is through these chemical-to-spectral linkages that studies of functional and biological diversity interactions become possible at larger spatial scales, thereby improving our understanding of the role of species in tropical forest ecosystem dynamics.
3658733|Riparian buffer strips may protect streams from phosphorus (P) pollution. We compared 2 years of daily P-yield (
25470336|Under the warmer climate, predicted for the future, northern peatlands are expected to become drier. This drying will lower the water table and likely result in reduced emissions of methane (CH) from these ecosystems. However, the prediction of declining CH fluxes does not consider the potential effects of ecological succession, particularly the invasion of sedges into currently wet sites (open water pools, low lawns). The goal of this study was to characterize the relationship between the presence of sedges in peatlands and CH efflux under natural conditions and under a climate change simulation (drained peatland). Methane fluxes, gross ecosystem production, and dissolved pore water CH concentrations were measured and a vegetation survey was conducted in a natural and drained peatland near St. Charles-de-Bellechasse, Quebec, Canada, in the summer of 2003. Each peatland also had plots where the sedges had been removed by clipping. Sedges were larger, more dominant, and more productive at the drained peatland site. The natural peatland had higher CH fluxes than the drained peatland, indicating that drainage was a significant control on CH flux. Methane flux was higher from plots with sedges than from plots where sedges had been removed at the natural peatland site, whereas the opposite case was observed at the drained peatland site. These results suggest that CH flux was enhanced by sedges at the natural peatland site and attenuated by sedges at the drained peatland site. However, the attenuation of CH flux due to sedges at the drained site was reduced in wetter periods. This finding suggests that CH flux could be decreased in the event of climate warming due to the greater depth to the water table, and that sedges colonizing these areas could further attenuate CH fluxes during dry periods. However, during wet periods, the sedges may cause CH fluxes to be higher than is currently predicted for climate change scenarios.
3658654|We examined the effects of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
25470337|Our objective was to determine how varied is the response of C cycling to temperature and irradiance in tundra vegetation. We used a large chamber to measure C exchange at 23 locations within a small arctic catchment in Alaska during summer 2003 and 2004. At each location, we determined light response curves of C exchange using shade cloths, twice during a growing season. We used data to fit a simple photosynthesis-irradiance, respiration-temperature model, with four parameters. We used a maximum likelihood technique to determine the acceptable parameter space for each light curve, given measurement uncertainty. We then explored which sites and time periods had parameter sets in common-an indication of functional similarity. We found that seven distinct parameter sets were required to explain observed C flux responses to temperature and light variation at all sites and time periods. The variation in estimated maximum photosynthetic rate
40603654|Microphytobenthos plays a vital role in estuarine and coastal carbon cycling and food webs. Yet, the role of exogenous factors, and thus the effects of climate change, in regulating microphytobenthic biomass is poorly understood. We aimed to unravel the mechanisms structuring microphytobenthic biomass both within and across ecosystems. The spatiotemporal distribution of the biomass of intertidal benthic algae (dominated by diatoms) was estimated with an unprecedented spatial extent from time-series of Normalized Differential Vegetation Index (NDVI) derived from a 6-year period of daily Aqua MODIS 250-m images of seven temperate, mostly turbid, estuarine and coastal ecosystems. These NDVI time-series were related to meteorological and environmental conditions. Intertidal benthic algal biomass varied seasonally in all ecosystems, in parallel with meteorology and water quality. Seasonal variation was more pronounced in mud than in sand. Interannual variation in biomass was small, but synchronized yearto-year biomass fluctuations occurred in a number of disjointed ecosystems. Air temperature explained interannual fluctuations in biomass in a number of sites, but the synchrony was mainly driven by the wind/wave climate: high wind velocities reduced microphytobenthic biomass, either through increased resuspension or reduced emersion duration. Spatial variation in biomass was largely explained by emersion duration and mud content, both within and across ecosystems. The results imply that effects on microphytobenthic standing stock can be anticipated when the position in the tidal frame is altered, for example due to sea level rise. Increased storminess will also result in a large-scale decrease of biomass.
25053839|Soils play a key role in the global cycling of carbon (C), storing organic C, and releasing
3658738| This article describes new approaches for manipulation of temperature and water input in the field. Nighttime warming was created by reflection of infrared radiation. Automatically operated reflective curtains covered the vegetation at night to reduce heat loss to the atmosphere. This approach mimicked the way climate change, caused by increased cloudiness and increased greenhouse gas emissions, alters the heat balance of ecosystems. Drought conditions were created by automatically covering the vegetation with transparent curtains during rain events over a 2-5-month period. The experimental approach has been evaluated at four European sites across a climate gradient. All sites were dominated (more than 50%) by shrubs of the ericaceous family. Within each site, replicated 4-m  5-m plots were established for control, warming, and drought treatments and the effect on climate variables recorded. Results over a two-year period indicate that the warming treatment was successful in achieving an increase of the minimum temperatures by 0.4-1.2C in the air and soil. The drought treatment resulted in a soil moisture reduction of 33%-82% at the peak of the drought. The data presented demonstrate that the approach minimizes unintended artifacts with respect to water balance, moisture conditions, and light, while causing a small but significant reduction in wind speed by the curtains. Temperature measurements demonstrated that the edge effects associated with the treatments were small. Our method provides a valuable tool for investigating the effects of climate change in remote locations with minimal artifacts. 
3658813| We studied the effect of nutrient inputs on the carbon (C) budget of rocky shore communities using a set of eight large experimental mesocosms. The mesocosms received a range of inorganic nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) additions, at an N:P ratio of 16. These additions were designed to elevate the background concentration, relative to that in eutrophic Oslofjord (Norway) waters, by 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32 mol dissolved inorganic nitrogen
40296353|Interest in preserving older forests at the landscape level has increased in many regions, including the Pacific Northwest of the United States. The Northwest Forest Plan (NWFP) of 1994 initiated a significant reduction in the harvesting of older forests on federal land. We used historical satellite imagery to assess the effect of this reduction in relation to: past harvest rates, management of non-federal forests, and the growing role of fire. Harvest rates in non-federal large-diameter forests (LDF) either decreased or remained stable at relatively high rates following the NWFP, meaning that harvest reductions on federal forests, which cover half of the region, resulted in a significant regional drop in the loss of LDF to harvest. However, increased losses of LDF to fire outweighed reductions in LDF harvest across large areas of the region. Elevated fire levels in the western United States have been correlated to changing climatic conditions, and if recent fire patterns persist, preservation of older forests in dry ecosystems will depend upon practical and coordinated fire management across the landscape.
25470414|Natural disturbances are an important source of environmental heterogeneity that have been linked to species diversity in ecosystems. However, spatial and temporal patterns of disturbances are often evaluated separately. Consequently, rates and scales of existing disturbance processes and their effects on biodiversity are often uncertain. We have studied both spatial and temporal patterns of contemporary fires in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, California, USA. Patterns of fire severity were analyzed for conifer forests in the three largest fires since 1999. These fires account for most cumulative area that has burned in recent years. They burned relatively remote areas where there was little timber management. To better characterize high-severity fire, we analyzed its effect on the survival of pines. We evaluated temporal patterns of fire since 1950 in the larger landscapes in which the three fires occurred. Finally, we evaluated the utility of a metric for the effects of fire suppression. Known as Condition Class it is now being used throughout the United States to predict where fire will be uncharacteristically severe. Contrary to the assumptions of fire management, we found that high-severity fire was uncommon. Moreover, pines were remarkably tolerant of it. The wildfires helped to restore landscape structure and heterogeneity, as well as producing fire effects associated with natural diversity. However, even with large recent fires, rates of burning are relatively low due to modern fire management. Condition Class was not able to predict patterns of high-severity fire. Our findings underscore the need to conduct more comprehensive assessments of existing disturbance regimes and to determine whether natural disturbances are occurring at rates and scales compatible with the maintenance of biodiversity.
25470416|The temporal availability of propagules is a critical factor in sustaining pioneer riparian tree populations along snowmelt-driven rivers because seedling establishment is strongly linked to seasonal hydrology. River regulation in semi-arid regions threatens to decouple seed development and dispersal from the discharge regime to which they evolved. Using the lower Tuolumne River as a model system, we quantified and modeled propagule availability for Populus fremontii (POFR), Salix gooddingii (SAGO), and Salix exigua (SAEX), the tree and shrub species that dominate near-channel riparian stands in the San Joaquin Basin, CA. A degree-day model was fit to field data of seasonal seed density and local temperature from three sites in 2002-2004 to predict the onset of the peak dispersal period. To evaluate historical synchrony of seed dispersal and seasonal river hydrology, we compared peak spring runoff timing to modeled peak seed release periods for the last 75 years. The peak seed release period began on May 15 for POFR (range April 23-June 10), May 30 for SAGO (range May 19-June 11) and May 31 for SAEX (range May 8-June 30). Degree-day models for the onset of seed release reduced prediction error by 40-67% over day-of-year means; the models predicted best the interannual, versus site-to-site, variation in timing. The historical analysis suggests that POFR seed release coincided with peak runoff in almost all years, whereas SAGO and SAEX dispersal occurred during the spring flood recession. The degree-day modeling approach reduce uncertainty in dispersal timing and shows potential for guiding flow releases on regulated rivers to increase riparian tree recruitment at the lowest water cost.
3659044| In the extreme cold desert soil of the McMurdo Dry Valleys of Antartica, we studied the effects of changing moisture and temperature on rates of decomposition and the activity and abundance of soil organisms. Our objective was to understand how moisture and temperature structure invertebrate communities and control important ecosystem processes and soil biotic activity in this extreme environment. First, in a field experiment, we manipulated soil moisture and temperature and compared cotton strip decomposition rates at two dry valley sites with different moisture regimes. At both sites, live nematode abundance and activity were unchanged by soil treatments over the 2-year study. In the same plots, the cotton strips did not decompose, despite soil warming and the addition of moisture. The results suggest that biological activity in the McMurdo Dry Valleys is severely limited and that soil organisms are not responsive to improving environmental conditions. Second, in microcosms, we manipulated dry valley soil moisture at a constant temperature of 10C and measured the rates of key soil processes. Soil respiration, nitrification, and the decomposition of cotton strips were all greater in dry valley soils that were wetted to 10% moisture content, as compared to soils at 0.6%. These results indicate that the decomposition potential for dry valley soils is high when moisture and temperature limitations are removed. In the field, however, this process was extremely slow, and biota did not respond to improving environmental conditions. Soil processes appear to be limited primarily by the extreme desiccation of the dry valleys. Ecosystems processes are likely restricted to the brief periods following infrequent snowfall, melt, and soil wetting that permit the activity of soil microbes and biota. 
40296367|Global declines of amphibian populations are well documented, yet effects of these declines on freshwater ecosystem structure and function are poorly understood. Here we examine responses of algal primary producers to tadpole extirpation over differing spatial and temporal scales. We experimentally excluded tadpoles from artificial substrata within localized areas (0.25 m) of two streams. One stream had an intact community of frogs (frog stream), and the other had recently experienced a catastrophic decline (frogless stream), leaving virtually no tadpoles. In the frog stream, there were significantly greater levels of chlorophyll a (+ 111%, P = 0.009), ash-free dry mass (AFDM) (+ 163%, P = 0.02), inorganic sediments (+114%, P = 0.001), and higher mean algal cell biovolume in tadpole exclusion treatments than in the tadpole access treatments. Correspondingly, overall AFDMspecific net primary production (NPP) increased by 38% (P = 0.001) and chlorophyll a-specific NPP increased by 29% (P = 0.001) in tadpole access treatments compared to tadpole exclusion treatments. Areal-specific NPP did not differ between treatments. There were no significant differences in chlorophyll a, AFDM, inorganic sediments, algal cell biovolume, or biomass-specific NPP between treatments in the frogless stream. Fifteen months after our experiments, a massive amphibian decline associated with a fungal pathogen occurred in the frog stream, resulting in the extirpation of over 90% of tadpoles. This extirpation was followed by significant increases in levels of chlorophyll a (269%, P = 0.001), AFDM (+220%, P < 0.001), and inorganic sediments (+ 140%, P = 0.001). Reach-scale NPP increased from -1587 to -810 mg DO m d . Additionally, algal community composition shifted from a dominance of small adnate diatoms (predecline) to a dominance of large upright algal species (post-decline). Our experimental results, combined with algal monitoring at the reach scale, indicate that over the course of our study catastrophic amphibian losses have significant effects on stream ecosystem structure and function. Ecosystem-level impacts of tadpole extirpations were more dramatic than results from our small-scale, short-term experiments, which predicted the direction of change in response variables but underestimated the magnitude. However, the long-term stream ecosystem responses remain unknown.
40928246|An intertidal San Francisco Bay salt marsh was used to study the spatial relationships between vegetation patterns and hydrologie and edaphic variables. Multiple abiotic variables were represented by six metrics: elevation, distance to major tidal channels and to the nearest channel of any size, edaphic conditions during dry and wet circumstances, and the magnitude of tidally induced changes in soil saturation and salinity. A new approach, quantitative differential electromagnetic induction (Q-DEMI), was developed to obtain the last metric. The approach converts the difference in soil electrical conductivity (ECa) between dry and wet conditions to quantitative maps of tidally induced changes in root zone soil water content and salinity. The result is a spatially exhaustive map of edaphic changes throughout the mapped area of the ecosystem. Spatially distributed data on the six metrics were used to explore two hypotheses: (1) multiple abiotic variables relevant to vegetation zonation each exhibit different, uncorrelated, spatial patterns throughout an intertidal salt marsh; (2) vegetation zones and habitats of individual plant species are uniquely characterized by different combinations of key metrics. The first hypothesis was supported by observed, uncorrelated spatial variability in the metrics. The second hypothesis was supported by binary logistic regression models that identified key vegetation zone and species habitat characteristics from among the six metrics. Based on results from 108 models, the Q-DEMI map of saturation and salinity change was the most useful metric of those tested for distinguishing different vegetation zones and plant species habitats in the salt marsh.
40296329|The hyphae of ectomycorrhizal and ericoid mycorrhizal fungi proliferate in nitrogen (N)-limited forests and tundra where the availability of inorganic N is low; under these conditions the most common fungal species are those capable of protein degradation that can supply their host plants with organic N. Although it is widely understood that these symbiotic fungi supply N to their host plants, the transfer is difficult to quantify in the field. A novel approach uses the natural N: N ratios (expressed as N values) in plants, soils, and mycorrhizal fungi to estimate the fraction of N in symbiotic trees and shrubs that enters through mycorrhizal fungi. This calculation is possible because mycorrhizal fungi discriminate against N when they create compounds for transfer to plants; host plants are depleted in N, whereas mycorrhizal fungi are enriched in N. The amount of carbon (C) supplied to these fungi can be stoichiometrically calculated from the fraction of plant N derived from the symbiosis, the N demand of the plants, the fungal C: N ratio, and the fraction of N retained in the fungi. Up to a third of C allocated belowground, or 20% of net primary production, is used to support ectomycorrhizal fungi. As anthropogenic N inputs increase, the C allocation to fungi decreases and plant N increases. Careful analyses of N patterns in systems dominated by ectomycorrhizal and ericoid mycorrhizal symbioses may reveal the ecosystem-scale effects of alterations in the plant-mycorrhizal symbioses caused by shifts in climate and N deposition.
25053863|There is substantial evidence that environmental changes on a landscape level can have dramatic consequences for the species richness and structure of food webs as well as on trophic interactions within such food webs. Thus far, the consequences of environmental change, and particularly the effects of invasive species and the fragmentation and isolation of natural habitats, have most often been studied in a purely ecological context, with the main emphasis on the description of alterations in species abundance and diversity and trophic links within food webs. Here, we argue that the study of evolutionary processes that may be affected by such changes is urgently needed to enhance our understanding of the consequences of environmental change. This requires an approach that treats species as dynamic systems with plastic responses to change rather than as static entities. As such, phenotypic plasticity on an individual level and genotypic change as a population level response should be taken into account when studying the consequences of a changing world. Using a multidisciplinary approach, we report on recent advances in our understanding, identify some major gaps in our current knowledge, and point towards rewarding approaches to enhance our understanding of how environmental change alters trophic interactions and ecosystems.
41505908|Increases in the elevation of the soil surfaces of mangroves and salt marshes are key to the maintenance of these habitats with accelerating sea level rise. Understanding the processes that give rise to increases in soil surface elevation provides science for management of landscapes for sustainable coastal wetlands. Here, we tested whether the soil surface elevation of mangroves and salt marshes in Moreton Bay is keeping up with local rates of sea level rise (2.358 mm y) and whether accretion on the soil surface was the most important process for keeping up with sea level rise. We found variability in surface elevation gains, with sandy areas in the eastern bay having the highest surface elevation gains in both mangrove and salt marsh (5.9 and 1.9 mm y) whereas in the muddier western bay rates of surface elevation gain were lower (1.4 and -0.3 mm y in mangrove and salt marsh, respectively). Both sides of the bay had similar rates of surface accretion (~7-9 mm y in the mangrove and 1-3 mm y in the salt marsh), but mangrove soils in the western bay were subsiding at a rate of approximately 8 mm y possibly due to compaction of organic sediments. Over the study surface elevation increments were sensitive to position in the intertidal zone (higher when lower in the intertidal) and also to variation in mean sea level (higher at high sea level). Although surface accretion was the most important process for keeping up with sea level rise in the eastern bay, subsidence largely negated gains made through surface accretion in the western bay indicating a high vulnerability to sea level rise in these forests.
25053803|We examined the impact of soil stress (low water and nutrient availabilities) and two keystone insect herbivores on pinyon pine (Pinus edulis) needle litterfall. We compared trees growing on two distinct soil types: volcanic cinders, which exhibit pronounced water and nutrient limitation, and sandy-loam soils, which have higher water-storage capacity and nutrient availability. Using two long-term herbivore removal experiments (15 and 18 years, respectively), we also examined the effects of the pinyon needle scale (Matsucoccus acalyptus, which attacks juvenile trees) and the stem-boring moth (Dioryctria albovittella, which attacks mature trees) on pinyon litterfall. These herbivores reach high densities on cinder soils but are absent or occur at much lower levels on sandy-loam soils. Four years of litterfall measurements showed four major patterns. First, independent of herbivory, needle litterfall was 20% lower under trees on high-stress cinder soils than on sandy-loam soils. Second, in agreement with the negative impact of scales on tree growth (that is, a 30% decline in stem growth), trees with scale infestations had 25% lower litterfall rates than trees resistant to scale; however, 15 years of scale-insect removal did not significantly increase needle litterfall. This implies possible intrinsic differences in litter production between scale-resistant and scale-susceptible trees. Third, in contrast with significant negative effects of moth herbivory on tree growth (that is, a 27% decline in stem growth), moth herbivory had no effect on needle litterfall. This, along with increased stem density in moth-susceptible trees, may be evidence of compensatory production. Fourth, there were strong year by soil type and year by scale herbivory interactions, such that in some years the effect on litterfall can be obscured or reversed by some other factor. In summary, soil stress has a strong and predictable effect on needle litterfall, whereas the relationship between insect herbivory and needle litterfall is weaker and depends on the individual herbivore. These effects, however, are mediated by other environmental factors that have considerable annual variation.
25053813|This article categorizes four kinds of adverse effects to human health caused by ecosystem change: direct, mediated, modulated, and systems failure. The effects are categorized on their scale, complexity, and lag-time. Some but not all of these can be classified as resulting from reduced ecosystem services. The articles also explores the impacts that different socioeconomic-ecologic scenarios are likely to have on human health and how changes to human health may, in turn, influence the unfolding of four different plausible future scenarios. We provide examples to show that our categorization is a useful taxonomy for understanding the complex relationships between ecosystems and human well-being and for predicting how future ecosystem changes may affect human health.
41505921|In water-limited ecosystems, where potential evapotranspiration exceeds precipitation, it is often assumed that plant invasions will not increase total ecosystem water use, because all available water is evaporated or transpired regardless of vegetation type. However, invasion by exotic species, with high water use rates, may potentially alter ecosystem water balance by reducing water available to native species, which may in turn impact carbon assimilation and productivity of cooccurring species. Here, we document the impact of invasion by an understory exotic woody species (Acacia longifolia) in a semi-arid Mediterranean dune pine forest. To quantify the effects of this understory leguminous tree on the water use and carbon fixation rates of Pinus pinaster we compare an invaded and a non-invaded stand. A. longifolia significantly altered forest structure by increasing plant density and leaf area index in the mid-stratum of the invaded forest. A. longifolia contributed significantly to transpiration in the invaded forest (up to 42%) resulting in a slight increase in stand transpiration in the invaded relative to non-invaded forest. More importantly, both water use and carbon assimilation rates of P. pinaster were significantly reduced in the invaded relative to non-invaded stand. Therefore, this study shows that exotic plant invasions can have significant impacts on hydrological and carbon cycling even in water-limited semi-arid ecosystems through a repartitioning of water resources between the native and the invasive species.
41505891|As part of a multidisciplinary project on carbon (C) dynamics of the ecosystems characterizing the Eastmain Region Watershed (James Bay, Quebec), the objective of this study is to compare the soil C stocks and soil organic matter quality among the main upland vegetation types in a boreal region subjected to a high fire frequency. On average, the organic layer contained twice the amount of C than the mineral soil. Closed canopy vegetation types had greater C stocks both in the mineral and in the organic layers than the other more open canopy vegetation types. Landscape features such as drainage and surfiaal deposit could not discriminate between vegetation types although closed vegetation. types were on average found on wetter site conditions. Average soil C contents varied more than 2-fold across vegetation types. On the opposite, except for the organic layer C:N ratio, which was smaller in closed vegetation types, other measured soil organic matter properties (namely specific rate of evolved C after a long-terai incubation, hydrolysis acid-resistant C as well as the rate of changes in soil heterotrophic respiration with increasing temperature (Q10)) remained within a narrow range between vegetation types. Therefore, total soil C stocks were a major determinant of both labile C and estimated summer soil heterotrophic respiration rate. The homogeneity of soil organic matter quality across the vegetation types could be attributable to the positive relationship between soil C storage and soil C fluxes observed in this landscape experiencing a high fire frequency. The low variability in soil C quality could help simplify the modelling of soil C fluxes in this environment.
25053865|Omnivory has been implicated in both diffusing and intensifying the effects of consumer control in food chains. Some have postulated that the strong, community level, top-down control apparent in lakes is not expressed in terrestrial systems because terrestrial food webs are reticulate, with high degrees of omnivory and diverse plant communities. In contrast, lake food webs are depicted as simple linear chains based on phytoplankton-derived energy. Here, we explore the dynamic implications of recent evidence showing that attached algal (periphyton) carbon contributes substantially to lake primary and secondary productivity, including fish production. Periphyton production represents a cryptic energy source in oligotrophic and mesotrophic lakes that is overlooked by previous theoretical treatment of trophic control in lakes. Literature data demonstrate that many fish are multi-chain omnivores, exploiting food chains based on both littoral and pelagic primary producers. Using consumer-resource models, we examine how multiple food chains affect fourth-level trophic control across nutrient gradients in lakes. The models predict that the stabilizing effects of linked food chains are strongest in lakes where both phytoplankton and periphyton contribute substantially to production of higher trophic levels. This stabilization enables a strong and persistent top down control on the pelagic food chain in mesotrophic lakes. The extension of classical trophic cascade theory to incorporate more complex food web structures driven by multi-chain predators provides a conceptual framework for analysis of reticulate food webs in ecosystems.
3658823|Forests in the American Pacific Northwest receive very little nitrogen (N) through atmospheric deposition; therefore, they can provide insights into how the N cycle functioned in other regions before heavy atmospheric deposition of inorganic N began. Our objectives were to determine (a) if the fate of organic N differed from the fate of inorganic N, (b) the effect that polyphenols have on the fate of organic N, and (c) the effect of season of addition on the fate of N inputs. We traced N added to in situ soil cores as ammonium, organic N, tannin-complexed organic N, and the N
40296275|Rural communities in the northern boreal forest depend on a suite of wild species for subsistence, including large game animals, furbearers, fish, and plants. Fire is one of the primary ecological disturbances and determinants of landscape pattern in the northern boreal forest. We review responses of key boreal subsistence species to variation and change in post-fire stand age and other characteristics. Available data for 17 species indicate highly varied post-fire habitat requirements. Mosaics of differing stand ages generated by fire could therefore be most effective in supplying a suite of subsistence species to hunting-and-gathering communities. Recent and projected increases in frequency of large-fire years might produce a more homogeneous landscape dominated by younger stand ages. Increases in fire suppression around communities might also produce a more homogenous landscape, but dominated by older stand ages. Neither of these scenarios provides mixed habitats for a diverse suite of subsistence species. We suggest that one aspect of the complex suite of human-fire interactions is an understanding of wildlife and plant species' response to fire in a subsistence region, in an effort to sustain ecosystem services critical to human well-being.
3659056|Resilience is the magnitude of disturbance that can be tolerated before a socioecological system (SES) moves to a different region of state space controlled by a different set of processes. Resilience has multiple levels of meaning: as a metaphor related to sustainability, as a property of dynamic models, and as a measurable quantity that can be assessed in field studies of SES. The operational indicators of resilience have, however, received little attention in the literature. To assess a system's resilience, one must specify which system configuration and which disturbances are of interest. This paper compares resilience properties in two contrasting SES, lake districts and rangelands, with respect to the following three general features: (a) The ability of an SES to stay in the domain of attraction is related to slowly changing variables, or slowly changing disturbance regimes, which control the boundaries of the domain of attraction or the frequency of events that could push the system across the boundaries. Examples are soil phosphorus content in lake districts woody vegetation cover in rangelands, and property rights systems that affect land use in both lake districts and rangelands. (b) The ability of an SES to self-organize is related to the extent to which reorganization is endogenous rather than forced by external drivers. Self-organization is enhanced by coevolved ecosystem components and the presence of social networks that facilitate innovative problem solving. (c) The adaptive capacity of an SES is related to the existence of mechanisms for the evolution of novelty or learning. Examples include biodiversity at multiple scales and the existence of institutions that facilitate experimentation, discovery, and innovation.
23501473|Despite a large number of studies focusing on the complexity of coral reef habitats and the characteristics of associated fish assemblages, the relationship between reef structure and fish assemblages remains unclear. The textural discontinuity hypothesis, which proposes that multi-modal body size distributions of organisms are driven by discontinuous habitat structure, provides a theoretical basis that may explain the influence of habitat availability on associated organisms. In this study we use fractal techniques to characterize patterns of cross-scale habitat complexity, and examine how this relates to body-depth abundance distributions of associated fish assemblages over corresponding spatial scales. Our study demonstrates that: (1) Reefs formed from different underlying substrata exhibit distinct patterns of cross-scale habitat complexity; (2) The availability of potential refuges at different scales correlates with patterns in fish body depth distributions, but habitat structure is more strongly related to the relative abundance of fish in the body depth modes, rather than to the number of modes; (3) As reefs change from coral- to algal-dominated states, the complexity of the underlying reef substratum may change, presenting a more homogenous environment to associated assemblages; (4) Individual fish body depth distributions may be multi-modal, however, these distributions are not static characteristics of the fish assemblage and may change to uni-modal forms in response to changing habitat condition. In light of predicted anthropogenic changes, there is a clear need to improve our understanding of the scale of ecological relationships to anticipate future changes and vulnerabilities.
3658983|We report measurements of rates of sap flow in dominant trees, changes in soil moisture, and evaporation from coarse woody debris in an old-growth Douglas-fir-western hemlock ecosystem at Wind River, Washington, USA, during dry periods in summer. The measurements are compared with eddy-covariance measurements of water-vapor fluxes above the forest
41413970|The generalization that plant communities increase in flammability as they age and invariably lead to resilient self-organized landscape mosaics is being increasingly challenged. Plant communities often exhibit rapidly saturating or even hump-shaped age-flammability trajectories and landscapes often display strong non-linear behaviors, abrupt shifts, and self-reinforcing alternative community states. This plethora of fire-landscape interactions calls for a more general model that considers alternative age-flammability rules. We simulated landscape dynamics assuming communities that (1) increase in flammability with age and (2) gain flammability up to a certain age followed by a slight and moderate loss to a constant value. Simulations were run under combinations of ignition frequency and interannual climatic variability. Age-increasing fire probability promoted high resilience to changes in ignition frequency and climatic variability whereas humpbacked-shaped age-flammability led to strong non-linear behaviors. Moderate (20%) reductions in mature compared to peak flammability produced the least resilient behaviors. The relatively nonflammable mature forest matrix intersected by young flammable patches is prone to break up and disintegrate with slight increases in ignition/climate variability causing large-scale shifts in the fire regime because large fires were able to sweep through the more continuous young/flammable landscape. Contrary to the dominant perception, fire suppression in landscapes with positive feedbacks may effectively reduce fire occurrence by allowing less flammable later stage communities composed of longer lived, obligate seeders to replace earlier stages of light demanding, often more flammable resprouters. Conversely, increases in anthropogenic ignitions, a common global trend of many forested regions may, in synergism with increased climate variability, induce abrupt shifts, and large-scale forest degradation.
43677506|Disturbance events strongly affect the composition, structure, and function of forest ecosystems; however, existing US land management inventories were not designed to monitor disturbance. To begin addressing this gap, the North American Forest Dynamics (NAFD) project has examined a geographic sample of 50 Landsat satellite image time series to assess trends in forest disturbance across the conterminous United States for 1985-2005. The geographic sample design used a probability-based scheme to encompass major forest types and maximize geographic dispersion. For each sample location disturbance was identified in the Landsat series using the Vegetation Change Tracker (VCT) algorithm. The NAFD analysis indicates that, on average, 2.77 Mha y of forests were disturbed annually, representing 1.09% y of US forestland. These satellite-based national disturbance rates estimates tend to be lower than those derived from land management inventories, reflecting both methodological and definitional differences. In particular, the VCT approach used with a biennial time step has limited sensitivity to low-intensity disturbances. Unlike prior satellite studies, our biennial forest disturbance rates vary by nearly a factor of two between high and low years. High western US disturbance rates were associated with active fire years and insect activity, whereas variability in the east is more strongly related to harvest rates in managed forests. We note that generating a geographic sample based on representing forest type and variability may be problematic because the spatial pattern of disturbance does not necessarily correlate with forest type. We also find that the prevalence of diffuse, non-stand-clearing disturbance in US forests makes the application of a biennial geographic sample problematic. Future satellite-based studies of disturbance at regional and national scales should focus on wall-to-wall analyses with annual time step for improved accuracy.
40603500|Fens are important components of Canada's western boreal forests, occupying about 63% of the total peatland area and storing about 65% of the peatland carbon. Rich fens, dominated by true moss-dominated ground layers, make up more than half of the fens in the region. We studied organic matter accumulation in three rich fens that represent the diversity in structural types. We used in situ decomposition socks, a new method that examines actual decomposition throughout the upper peat profile over an extended period of time. We coupled our carbon loss data with macrofossil analyses and dated peat profiles using Pb. Across the three rich fens and in the top 39 cm of the peat column, dry mass increases on average 3.1 times. From our dry mass loss measurements, we calculate that annual mass loss from the top 39 cm varies from 0.52 to 1.08 kg m. Vertical accumulation during the past 50 years has varied from 16 to 32 cm and during these 50 years, organic matter accumulation has averaged 174g m y compared to 527 g m y dry mass loss, with additional mass losses of 306 g m y from peat between 50 and 150 years of age. Organic matter accumulation from our rich fens compares well with literature values from boreal bogs, whereas peat bulk densities increase about three times within the uppermost 40 cm, much more than in bogs. Hence, rich fens accumulate peat not because the plant material is especially hard to decompose, is acidic, or has the catotelm especially close to the surface, but because dense, rapidly produced inputs outweigh the relatively rapid decomposition process of the upper peat column.
40603662|Although drought in temperate deciduous forests decreases transpiration rates of many species, stand-level transpiration and total evapotranspiration is often reported to exhibit only minor interannual variability with precipitation. This apparent contradiction was investigated using four years of transpiration estimates from sap flux, interception-evaporation estimates from precipitation and throughfall gauges, modeled soil evaporation and drainage estimates, and eddy covariance data in a mature oak-hickory forest in North Carolina, USA. The study period included one severe drought year and one year of well above-average precipitation. Normalized for atmospheric conditions, transpiration rates of some species were lower in drought than in wet periods whereas others did not respond to drought. However, atmospheric conditions during drought periods are unlike conditions during typical growing season periods. The rainy days that are required to maintain drought-free periods are characterized by low atmospheric vapor pressure deficit, leading to very low transpiration. In contrast, days with low air vapor pressure deficit were practically absent during drought and moderate levels of transpiration were maintained throughout despite the drying soil. Thus, integrated over the growing season, canopy transpiration was not reduced by drought. In addition, high vapor pressure deficit during drought periods sustained appreciable soil evaporation rates. As a result, despite the large interannual variation in precipitation (ranging from 934 to 1346 mm), annual evapotranspiration varied little (610-668 mm), increasing only slightly with precipitation, due to increased canopy rainfall interception. Because forest evapotranspiration shows only modest changes with annual precipitation, lower precipitation translates to decreased replenishment of groundwater and outflow, and thus the supply of water to downstream ecosystems and water bodies.
27823715|Climate change is predicted to bring about a water level (WL) draw-down in boreal peatlands. This study aimed to assess the effect of WL on the carbon dioxide (CO2) dynamics of a boreal oligotrophic fen ecosystem and its components; Sphagnum mosses, sedges, dwarf shrubs and the underlying peat. We measured CO2 exchange with closed chambers during four growing seasons in a study site that comprised different vegetation treatments. WL gradient in the site was broadened by surrounding half of the site with a shallow ditch that lowered the WL by 1025 cm. We modeled gross photosynthesis (PG) and ecosystem respiration (RECO) and simulated the CO2 exchange in three WL conditions: prevailing and WL draw-down scenarios of 14 and 22 cm. WL draw-down both reduced the PG and increased the RECO, thus leading to a smaller net CO2 uptake in the ecosystem. Of the different components, Sphagnum mosses were most sensitive to WL draw-down and their physiological activities almost ceased. Vascular plant CO2 exchange, en bloc, hardly changed but whereas sedges contributed twice as much to the CO2 exchange as shrubs in the prevailing conditions, the situation was reversed in the WL draw-down scenarios. Peat respiration was the biggest component in RECO in all WL conditions and the increase in RECO following the WL draw-down was due to the increase in peat respiration. The results imply that functional diversity buffers the ecosystem against environmental variability and that in the long term, WL draw-down changes the vegetation composition of boreal fens.
25053818|The complexity of natural ecosystems makes it difficult to compare the relative importance of abiotic and biotic factors and to assess the effects of their interactions on ecosystem development. To improve our understanding of ecosystem complexity, we initiated an experiment designed to quantify the main effects and interactions of several factors that are thought to affect nutrient export from developing forest ecosystems. Using a replicated 2  2  4 factorial experiment, we quantified the main effects of these factors and the factor interactions on annual calcium, magnesium, and potassium export from field mesocosms over 4 years for two Vermont locations, two soils, and four different tree seedling communities. We found that the main effects explained 56%-97% of total variation in nutrient export. Abiotic factors (location and soil) accounted for a greater percentage of the total variation in nutrient export (47%-94%) than the biotic factor (plant community) (2%-15%). However, biotic control over nutrient export was significant, even when biomass was minimal. Factor interactions were often significant, but they explained less of the variation in nutrient export (1%-33%) than the main effects. Year-to-year fluctuations influenced the relative importance of the main effects in determining nutrient export and created factor interactions between most of the explanatory variables. Our study suggests that when research is focused on typically used main effects, such as location and soil, and interactions are aggregated into overall error terms, important information about the factors controlling ecosystem processes can be lost.
41413969|Quantifying the controls on soil respiration is important for understanding ecosystem physiology and for predicting the response of soil carbon reservoirs to climate change. The majority of soil respiration is typically considered to occur in the top 20-30 cm of soils. In desert soils, where organic matter concentrations tend to be low and plants are deeply rooted, deeper respiration might be expected. However, little is known about the depth distribution of respiration in dryland soils. Here we show that the average depth of soil respiration between pulse precipitation events is almost always greater than 20 cm and is frequently greater than 50 cm in two central New Mexico desert shrublands. The average depth of soil respiration in a pion-juniper woodland was shallower, between 5 and 40 cm. In the shrublands, 8 seasonal variations in the carbon isotope composition of soilrespired CO (C r-soil ) that correlate with vapor pressure deficit support root/rhizosphere respiration as the dominant source of soil CO. Such deep autotrophic respiration indicates that shrubs preferentially allocate photosynthate to deep roots when conditions near the surface are unfavorable. Therefore, respiration rates in these soils are not necessarily correlated with root biomass. The  C r-soil values provide no evidence for CO evolved from soil inorganic carbon. Our results also suggest that organic carbon cycling is rapid and efficient in these soils and that the C value of CO respired from soils in much of the southwestern US, and perhaps in other semiarid regions, varies seasonally by at least 4.
41505951|We scale a model of net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE) for tundra ecosystems and assess model performance using eddy covariance measurements at three tundra sites. The model, initially developed using instantaneous (seconds-minutes) chamber flux (~m) observations, independently represents ecosystem respiration (ER) and gross primary production (GPP), and requires only temperature (T), photosynthetic photon flux density (I o ), and leaf area index (L) as inputs. We used a synthetic data set to parameterize the model so that available in situ observations could be used to assess the model. The model was then scaled temporally to daily resolution and spatially to about 1 km resolution, and predicted values of NEE, and associated input variables, were compared to observations obtained from eddy covariance measurements at three flux tower sites over several growing seasons. We compared observations to modeled NEE calculated using T and I o measured at the towers, and L derived from MODIS data. Cumulative NEE estimates were within 17 and 11% of instrumentation period and growing season observations, respectively. Predictions improved when one site-year experiencing anomalously dry conditions was excluded, indicating the potential importance of stomatal control on GPP and/or soil moisture on ER. Notable differences in model performance resulted from ER model formulations and differences in how L was estimated. Additional work is needed to gain better predictive ability in terms of ER and L. However, our results demonstrate the potential of this model to permit landscape scale estimates of NEE using relatively few and simple driving variables that are easily obtained via satellite remote sensing.
41505918|Relationships among aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and forest canopy properties were investigated in secondary successional forests of similar age and disturbance history in northern Lower Michigan, USA. Aboveground biomass, ANPP, canopy leaf area index (LAI), and several canopy nitrogen (N) measures were estimated from 12 stands representing major landform-level ecosystems and vegetation associations. Stand single-date and growing season average normalized difference vegetation indices (NDVI) were derived from Landsat TM. ANPP correlated most strongly with total canopy N content (r = 0.81, P < 0.001), followed by LAI (r = 0.37, P < 0.001) and area-based canopy-average leaf N concentration (r = 0.37, P < 0.05). No significant relationship was detected between ANPP and massbased canopy-average leaf N concentration. Stand ANPP correlated positively with both total canopy N content (r = 0.62, P < 0.05) and mass-based leaf N concentration (r = 0.53, P < 0.05) of commonly dominant Populus spp. Relatively higher ANPP, total canopy N content and LAI corresponded to simultaneous presence of shade-intolerant P. grandidentata with shade-tolerant species. Both forms of NDVI were significantly related to ANPP, and more strongly to total canopy N content and LAI; relationships were stronger for seasonally averaged (r > 0.75, P < 0.001) than for single-date NDVI (r > 0.52, P < 0.01). Results indicate that on the transitioning study landscapes, ANPP was more closely related to canopy N content than to LAI, seasonally averaged NDVI was a more reliable predictor of ANPP and canopy properties than the single-date index, whereas measured canopy characteristics varied significantly between major landform-level ecosystems. The ongoing decline of P. grandidentata is likely to alter aboveground carbon and pools and fluxes in the course of succession.
3658711|The ecosystem is a fundamental ecological concept that is not as simple as it first appears. We explore three key dimensions of the concept that make it both complex and broadly useful-its basic definition, its application via models to concrete or specific situations, and its metaphorical connotations as used in general communication within the domain of science and with the public at large. Clarity in identifying what the dimensions are and how they are related can help to maintain the rigor of the concept for specific scientific uses while also allowing enough flexibility for its use in the integration of scientific principles, as well as in public discourse. This analysis of the ecosystem as a multidimensional concept is likely to be generalizable to other important concepts in ecology.
3658829|The North Pacific Subtropical Gyre (NPSG) is the largest ecosystem on our planet. However, this expansive habitat is also remote, poorly sampled, and therefore not well understood. For example, the most abundant oxygenic phototroph in the NPSG, Prochlorococcus, was described only a decade ago. Other novel Bacteria, Archaea and Eukarya, recently identified by nucleic acid sequence analysis, have not been isolated. In October 1988, an ocean time-series research program was established to study ecosystem processes in the gyre, including rates and pathways of carbon and energy flow, spatial and temporal scales of variability, and coupling of ocean physics to biogeochemical processes. After a decade of ecosystem surveillance, this sentinel observatory has produced an unprecedented data set and some new views of an old ocean. Foremost is evidence for dramatic changes in microbial community structure and in mechanisms of nutrient cycling in response to large-scale ocean-atmosphere interactions. These and other observations demand reassessment of current views of physical-biogeochemical processes in this and other open-ocean ecosystems.
23253688|The fire regime of ponderosa pine forests in the southwestern United States has shifted over the past century from historically frequent, low-intensity surface fires to infrequent, stand-replacing crown fires. We quantified plant and soil carbon (C) responses to this new fire regime and assessed interactions between changes in fire regime and changes in precipitation regime predicted by some climate models (specifically, an earlier monsoon rain season). We hypothesized that soil C pools and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) efflux rates would decrease initially following stand-replacing fires (due to low plant C inputs and the loss of the soil surficial organic (O) horizon), but then increase with time-after-fire (as plant C inputs increase). Water availability often limits soil biological activity in these forests, but we predicted that low soil C availability following fire would constrain soil CO 2 efflux responses to precipitation. In a series of sites with histories of stand-replacing fires that burned between 2 and 34 years prior to sampling, burned patches had lower soil C pools and fluxes than adjacent unburned patches, but there was no evidence of a trend with time-after-fire. Burned forests had 7,500 g C m -2 less live plant biomass C (P < 0.001), 1,600 g C m -2 less soil total C (P < 0.001) and 90 g C m -2 less soil labile C (P < 0.001) than unburned forests. Lower soil labile C in burned patches was due to both a loss of O horizon mass with fire and lower labile C concentrations (g labile C kg -1 soil total C) in the mineral soil. During the annual drought that precedes summer monsoon rains, both burned and unburned patches had soil CO 2 efflux rates ranging from 0.9 to 1.1 g CO 2 -C m -2 day -1 . During the monsoon season, soil CO 2 efflux in unburned patches increased to approximately 4.8 g CO 2 -C m -2 day -1 and rates in paired burned patches (3.4 g CO 2 -C m -2 day -1 ) were lower (P < 0.001). We also used field irrigation to experimentally create an earlier and longer monsoon season, and soil CO 2 efflux rates at both burned and unburned plots increased initially in response to watering, but decreased to below control (plots without irrigation) rates within weeks. Watering did not significantly change cumulative growing season soil CO 2 efflux, supporting our prediction that C availability constrains soil CO 2 efflux responses to precipitation. This research advances our understanding of interactions among climate, fire, and C in southwestern forests, suggesting that climate-induced shifts toward more stand-replacing fires will decrease soil C for decades, such that a single fire can constrain future soil biological responses to precipitation regime changes.
40296354|In an experimental study we assessed if benthic bioturbating invertebrates affect the recruitment (hatching) of zooplankton from the sediment, and if this effect persists as differences in the zooplankton community in the water column, that is, if bioturbation quantitatively stimulates benthic-pelagic coupling. We investigated the effects of four different benthic invertebrates (Asellus aquaticus, Chironomus plumosus, Tubifex tubifex in the presence or absence of the predator Sialis lutaria). In total, 45 zooplankton taxa hatched from the sediment and the hatching success of some of these was dependent on the species identity of the bioturbating invertebrate. The predator Sialis reduced the abundance of all three invertebrate species, but tended to positively influence the zooplankton recruitment rates, possibly through increasing the activity of the bioturbating invertebrates. The most striking effect of bioturbation on the hatching and pelagic zooplankton community properties was that, on average, 11% more species hatched in the Asellus treatment than in any other treatment. This was also mirrored in the zooplankton water column community where, on average, 7% more species established a viable population in treatments with Asellus as bioturbator. In a complementary field survey, Asellus was more common in littoral than in profundal sediments. Because Asellus strongly affected recruitment of zooplankton in our experiment, we argue that bioturbation may partly explain why recruitment of resting stages of both phyto- and zooplankton is generally higher in littoral than in profundal areas.
3658761|Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is an abundant form of organic matter in stream ecosystems. Most research has focused on the watershed as the source of DOC in streams, but DOC also comes from leaching of organic matter stored in the stream channel. We used a whole-ecosystem experimental approach to assess the significance of leaching of organic matter in the channel as a source of DOC in a headwater stream. Inputs of leaf litter were excluded from a forested Appalachian headwater stream for 3 years. Stream-water concentration, export, and instream generation of DOC were reduced in the litter-excluded stream as compared with a nearby untreated reference stream. The proportion of high molecular weight (HMW) DOC (more than 10,000 daltons) in stream water was not altered by litter exclusion. Mean DOC concentration in stream water was directly related to benthic leaf-litter standing stock. Instream generation of DOC from leaf litter stored in the stream channel contributes approximately 30% of daily DOC exports in this forested headwater stream. This source of DOC is greatest during autumn and winter and least during spring and summer. It is higher during increasing discharge than during base flow. We conclude that elimination of litter inputs from a forested headwater stream has altered the biogeochemistry of DOC in this ecosystem.
40296319|An oligotrophic phosphorus (P) limited seagrass ecosystem in Florida Bay was experimentally fertilized in a unique way. Perches were installed to encourage seabirds to roost and deliver an external source of nutrients via defecation. Two treatments were examined: (1) a chronic 23-year fertilization and (2) an earlier 28-month fertilization that was discontinued when the chronic treatment was initiated. Because of the low mobility of P in carbonate sediments, we hypothesized long-term changes to ecosystem structure and function in both treatments. Structural changes in the chronic treatment included a shift in the dominant seagrass species from Thalassia testudinum to Halodule wrightii, large increases in epiphytic biomass and sediment chlorophyll-a, and a decline in species richness. Functional changes included increased benthic metabolism and quantum efficiency. Initial changes in the 28-month fertilization were similar, but after 23 years of nutrient depuration T. testudinum has reestablished itself as the dominant species. However, P remains elevated in the sediment and H. wrightii has maintained a presence. Functionally the discontinued treatment remains altered. Biomass exceeds that in the chronic treatment and indices of productivity, elevated relative to control, are not different from the chronic fertilization. Cessation of nutrient loading has resulted in a superficial return to the pre-disturbance character of the community, but due to the nature of P cycles functional changes persist.
25470341|Our current ability to detect and predict changes in forest ecosystem productivity is constrained by several limitations. These include a poor understanding of belowground productivity, the short duration of most analyses, and a need for greater examination of species- or community-specific variability in productivity studies. We quantified aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) over 3 years (1999-2001), and both belowground NPP (BNPP) and total NPP over 2 years (2000-2001) in both mesic and xeric site community types of the mixed mesophytic forest of southeastern Kentucky to examine landscape variability in productivity and its relation with soil resource [water and nitrogen (N)] availability. Across sites, ANPP was significantly correlated with N availability (R = 0.58, P = 0.028) while BNPP was best predicted by soil moisture content (R = 0.72, P = 0.008). Because of these offsetting patterns, total NPP was unrelated to either soil resource. Interannual variability in growing season precipitation during the study resulted in a 50% decline in mesic site litter production, possibly due to a lag effect following a moderate drought year in 1999. As a result, ANPP in mesic sites declined 27% in 2000 compared to 1999, while xeric sites had no aboveground production differences related to precipitation variability. If global climate change produces more frequent occurrences of drought, then the response of mesic sites to prolonged moisture deficiency and the consequences of shifting carbon (C) allocation on C storage will become important questions.
23501303|Over the past 20 years, our understanding of soil nitrogen (N) cycling has changed with evidence that amino acids are major substrates for both soil microorganisms and plants. However, the recent discovery that plants and microorganisms can directly utilize small peptides in soil needs to be evaluated for its ecological significance, because peptides are released earlier in protein decomposition and thus would provide significant competitive advantage to any organism that can use them directly. We tested whether soil microorganisms took up peptides faster than amino acids across a broad range of ecosystems. We show that L-enantiomeric-peptidic-N is taken up significantly faster than the equivalent monomer, and that this is universal across soils from different ecosystems, with distinct microbial communities. Peptides may have an unrecognized, global, importance in the terrestrial N cycle, providing N to soil microorganisms at an earlier stage of decomposition than previously acknowledged.
25470358|Recent research has shown that genetic variation can directly impact community and ecosystem level processes. Populus tremuloides (trembling aspen) is an extremely widespread and genetically diverse tree species important to many North American forest ecosystems. Using leaf litter from five geno-types grown in a common garden under two nutrient treatments, we tracked litter decomposition in a natural aspen stand for 1 year. Here we show that aspen leaf litter decomposes and releases carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur in relation to its genetic identity. In a secondary experiment, we show that the genetic diversity of aspen litter mixtures can influence decomposition, however weakly so. Overall, nutrient treatments influenced leaf litter decomposition the most, followed by genetic identity, and then by genetic diversity (if at all in some cases). In this widespread, genetically diverse, and dominant species, genetic variation within a single species is important to ecosystem functioning. The relatively weak effect of genetic diversity on the processes measured here does not preclude its importance to ecosystem functioning, but does suggest that genetic identity and composition are more important than genetic diversity per se.
3658858|This study tested an hypothesis concerning patterns in species abundance in ecological communities. Why do the majority of species occur in low abundance, with just a few making up the bulk of the biomass? We propose that many of the minor species are analogues of the dominants in terms of the ecosystem functions they perform, but differ in terms of their capabilities to respond to environmental stresses and disturbance. They thereby confer resilience on the community with respect to ecosystem function. Under changing conditions, ecosystem function is maintained when dominants decline or are lost because functionally equivalent minor species are able to substitute for them. We have tested this hypothesis with respect to ecosystem functions relating to global change. In particular, we identified five plant functional attributes-height, biomass, specific leaf area, longevity, and leaf litter quality-that determine carbon and water fluxes. We assigned values for these functional attributes to each of the graminoid species in a lightly grazed site and in a heavily grazed site in an Australian rangeland. Our resilience proposition was cast in the form of three specific hypotheses in relation to expected similarities and dissimilarities between dominant and minor species, within and between sites. Functional similarity-or ecological distance-was determined as the euclidean distance between species in functional attribute space. The analyses provide evidence in support of the resilience hypothesis. Specifically, within the lightly grazed community, dominant species were functionally more dissimilar to one another, and functionally similar species more widely separated in abundance rank, than would be expected on the basis of average ecological distances in the community. Between communities, depending on the test used, two of three, or three of four minor species in the lightly grazed community that were predicted to increase in the heavily grazed community did in fact do so. Although there has been emphasis on the importance of functional diversity in supporting the flow of ecosystem goods and services, the evidence from this study indicates that functional similarity (between dominant and minor species, and among minor species) may be equally important in ensuring persistence (resilience) of ecosystem function under changing environmental conditions.
3659041|Although prokaryotes are small in size, they are a significant biomass component in aquatic planktonic ecosystems and play a major role in biogeochemical processes. A review of the recent literature shows that the relative importance of prokaryotes to material and energy fluxes is maximized in low-productivity (oligotrophic) ecosystems and decreases in high productivity (eutrophic) ecosystems. We conclude that competition with eukaryotic autotrophs for dissolved nutrients and competition with phagotrophic heterotrophs and physical processes (sinking, photooxidation) for organic carbon (C) play important roles in determining the relative abundance and impact of prokaryotes in aquatic systems. Oligotrophic systems have low nutrient concentrations, with high proportions of dissolved nutrients in organic form, which favors prokaryotic heterotrophs over phytoplankton. Furthermore, a high proportion of the available organic C is dissolved rather than particulate, which favors prokaryotic heterotrophs over phagotrophic heterotrophs. In eutrophic systems, increased relative concentrations and loading of inorganic nutrients and increased relative concentrations of particulate organic C select for phytoplankton and phagotrophic heterotrophs over prokaryotic heterotrophs. Increased particle sinking fluxes and/or decreased excretion of organic carbon (EOC) may also decrease the relative importance of prokaryotic heterotrophs in eutrophic systems. In oligotrophic systems, interactions between autotrophs and heterotrophs are tightly coupled because the dominant heterotrophs are similar in size and growth rates, as well as having similar nutrient composition to the dominant autotrophs, small phytoplankton. In eutrophic systems, increased productivity passes through zooplankton that are larger and have slower growth rates than the autotrophs, leading to a greater potential for decoupled auto- and heterotrophic production and increased export production.
40296291|Understanding the role of diversity in the functioning of ecosystems has important implications for agriculture. Previous agricultural research has shown that crop rotation and the use of cover crops can lead to increases in yield relative to monoculture; however, few studies have been performed within the broader context of diversity-ecosystem function theory and in the absence of chemical inputs. We performed a field experiment in SW Michigan, USA, in which we manipulated the number of crop species grown in rotation and as winter cover crops over a 3-year period to test if varying the number of species in a rotation affected grain yield, a critical metric of ecosystem function in row-crops. The experimental design was unique in that no fertilizer or pesticides were used, and the only management variable manipulated was number of species in the rotation, thus providing a strong comparison to grassland diversity-ecosystem function experiments. Treatments included continuous monocultures of three row-crops, corn Zea mays L., soybean Glycine max (L.) Merr., and winter wheat Triticum aestivum L., and 2-and 3-year annual rotations with and without cover crops (zero, one, or two legume/small grain species), encompassing a range of crop diversity from one to six species. Crop yields and weed biomass were measured annually for 3 years and plant available soil nitrogen was measured over the course of the growing season in the final year of the study. In all 3 years, corn grain yield increased linearly in response to the number of crops in the rotation. Corn yields in the highest diversity treatment (three crops, plus three cover crops) were over 100% higher than in continuous monoculture and were not significantly different from the county average for each of the 3 years despite the absence of chemical inputs. Corn yields in the diversity treatments were strongly correlated with the availability of inorganic soil nitrogen, which was likely influenced by the number of different legume species (crops and cover crops) present in the rotation. In soybean and winter wheat, yield differences among crop diversity treatments were also significant, but of lower magnitude (32 and 53%, respectively), and showed little direct relationship to the number of crop species grown in a rotation. Results demonstrate that agricultural research motivated by ecological theory can provide important insights into the functioning of agroecosystems and enhance our understating of the linkages between diversity and ecosystem function. Importantly, these results suggest that reduced chemical inputs do not necessarily result in yield penalties and provide support for incorporation of crop or species diversity when determining how ecosystem services can be included in food, fiber, and biofuel production.
41505865|Despite increasing interest in the patterns of trace gas emissions in terrestrial ecosystems, little is known about the impacts of climate change on nitrous oxide (NO) fluxes. The aim of this study was to determine the importances of the three main drivers of climate change (warming, summer drought, and elevated CO concentrations) on NO fluxes from an extensively managed, upland grassland. Over a 2-year period, we monitored NO fluxes in an in situ ecosystem manipulation experiment simulating the climate predicted for the study area in 2080 (3.5C temperature increase, 20% reduction in summer rainfall and atmospheric CO levels of 600 ppm). NO fluxes showed significant seasonal and interannual variation irrespective of climate treatment, and were highter in summer and autumn compared with winter and spring. Overall, NO emissions showed a positive correlation with soil temperature and rainfall. Elevated temperature had a positive impact on mean annual NO fluxes but effects were only significant in 2007. Contrary to expectations, neither combined summer drought and warming nor the simultaneous application of elevated atmospheric CO concentrations, summer drought and warming had any significant effect on annual NO fluxes. However, the maximum NO flux rates observed during the study occurred when elevated CO was combined with warming and drought, suggesting the potential for important, short-term NO-N losses in enriched CO environments. Taken together, our results suggest that the NO responses of temperate, extensively managed grasslands to future climate change scenarios may be primarily driven by temperature effects.
40296311|Regime shifts, or massive changes in ecosystems, are often associated with thresholds in drivers such as climate, land-use change, nutrient fluxes, or other factors. A frequently studied example is eutrophication, which is a serious environmental problem of lakes and reservoirs associated with phosphorus (P) enrichment above a threshold. We estimated probability distributions of thresholds for eutrophication of Lake Mendota, Wisconsin, USA using 30 years of annual P budgets. Although thresholds were likely to influence eutrophication of the lake (probability 96.6%), the probability distributions of thresholds spanned a wide range of P loading rates. Management recommendations are consistent with simpler models that recommend P load targets near or below the lowest P loads observed in the past 30 years. If loads increase, there is considerable risk of crossing a threshold to sustained eutrophication with high in-lake P concentrations and poor water quality. On the other hand, if loads decrease there is a chance of crossing a mitigation threshold, causing substantial reductions in P concentrations and improvements in water quality. Consideration of these risks will increase estimates of the net economic benefits of lower P loading. Our analysis illustrates a process for estimating probability distributions for thresholds of ecosystem regime shifts. Even though threshold probability distributions may be wide with thick tails, they provide crucial information about potential consequences of alternative policy choices.
25622873|The impact of atmospheric N-deposition on succession from open sand to dry, lichen-rich, short grassland, and tall grass vegetation dominated by Carex arenaria was surveyed in 19 coastal dune sites along the Baltic Sea. Coastal dunes with acid or slightly calcareous sand reacted differently to atmospheric wet deposition of 5-8 kg N ha Y. Accelerated acidification, as well as increased growth of Carex and accumulation of organic matter, was observed only at acid sites with ${\rm pH}_{{\rm NaCl}}$ of the parent material below 6.0. At sites with slightly calcareous parent material, increased N-deposition had no effect. A trigger for grass encroachment seems to be high acidification in early successional stages to below ${\rm pH}_{{\rm NaCl}}$ 4.0. Metals like Al or Fe become freely available and may hamper intolerant species. At acid sites, N-mineralization increases with elevated N-deposition, which may further stimulate Carex arenaria. Due to high growth plasticity, efficient resource allocation and tolerance of high metal concentrations, C. arenaria is a superior competitor under these conditions and can start to dominate the dune system. Carex-dominated vegetation is species-poor. Even at the moderate N-loads in this study, foliose lichens, forbs and grasses were reduced in short grass vegetation at acid sites. Species indicating these first effects of atmospheric deposition on dry, lichen-rich, short grasslands are identified and recommendations for restoration of grass-encroached sites given.
3658852|The massive reduction in sea urchin Diadema antillarum populations since the mid-1980s has been associated with large increases in the abundance of fleshy algae on many Caribbean reefs despite the availability of other sea urchin and finfish grazers. This study examined the ecology of a grazer living sympatrically with D. antillarum, the common and abundant sea urchin Echinometra viridis. I examined the role that finfish and invertebrate predators play in controlling the distribution of E. viridis as well as the ability of this sea urchin to control exposed fleshy algae on the patch reefs of the Glovers Reef Atoll lagoon. I found that the major predators of this sea urchin were Calamus bajonado (jolthead porgy), Balistes vetula and Canthidermis sufflamen (queen and ocean triggerfish), Lachnolaimus maximus (hogfish), and a gastropod, probably Cassis madagascariensis. The abundance of E. viridis is constrained by predation, which restricts E. viridis to cryptic locations, such as crevices. Sea urchins bit a smaller percentage of experimental algal assays than finfish. Finfish herbivory was associated positively with patch reef topographic complexity. Unexpectedly, E. viridis abundance was positively correlated with fleshy algal abundance, but negatively correlated with the frequency of finfish bites. Predators restrict E. viridis to crevices and therefore reduce their influence on exposed fleshy algae, even at moderately high population densities (up to 10 per square meter). Since net benthic primary production of coral reefs is most strongly associated with herbivory on exposed surfaces, it would appear that E. viridis is unable to maintain the same production as reefs dominated by D. antillarum.
25053806|The large organic carbon (C) pools found in noncultivated grassland soils suggest that historically these ecosystems have had high rates of C sequestration. Changes in the soil C pool over time are a function of alterations in C input and output rates. Across the Great Plains and at individual sites through time, inputs of C (via aboveground production) are correlated with precipitation; however, regional trends in C outputs and the sensitivity of these C fluxes to annual variability in precipitation are less well known. To address the role of precipitation in controlling grassland C fluxes, and thereby soil C sequestration rates, we measured aboveground and belowground net primary production (ANPP-C and BNPP-C), soil respiration (SR-C), and litter decomposition rates for 2 years, a relatively dry year followed by a year of average precipitation, at five sites spanning a precipitation gradient in the Great Plains. ANPP-C, SR-C, and litter decomposition increased from shortgrass steppe (36, 454, and 24 g C
25470322|Studies of the effects of precipitation on litter decomposition and nitrogen mineralization in arid and semiarid environments have demonstrated contradictory results. We conducted a manipulative experiment with rainout shelters in the semiarid Patagonian steppe, aimed at assessing the direct effects of water availability on litter decomposition and net nitrogen mineralization while isolating the indirect effects. We created four levels of precipitation input: control and three levels (30, 55 and 80%) of precipitation interception and we examined litter decomposition and nutrient release of a dominant grass species, Stipa speciosa, inorganic soil nitrogen, and in situ net nitrogen mineralization over two consecutive years. Litter decomposition rates (k, year) varied significantly (P < 0.001) among precipitation interception treatments and were positively correlated with incoming annual precipitation (APPT, mm/year) (k = 0.0007  APPT + 0.137). In contrast, net N mineralization was not correlated with incoming precipitation. Soil NO significantly decreased with increasing precipitation input, whereas soil NH concentration did not differ among precipitation interception treatments. Controls of water input on litter decomposition appear to be different from controls on N mineralization in the semiarid Patagonian steppe. We suggest that although water availability affects both the mineralization of C and N, it differentially affects the movement and fate of the inorganic products. A consequence of the accumulation of inorganic N during dry episodes is that periods of maximum water and soil nutrient availability may occur at different times. This asynchrony in the availability of N and water in the soil may explain the observed lags in the response of primary production to increases in water availability.
40296284|We investigated the mechanisms that determine the quality and quantity of organic carbon (C) stocks in boreal forest soils by analyzing both qualitative and quantitative changes in the organic fractions in the soil organic matter (OM) in a vertical gradient in the decomposition continuum of the organic horizon [litter layer (L), fermentation layer (F), and humus layer (H)] in forest soils using a sequential fractionation method at two forest types along a climatic gradient in Finland. We predicted that the concentrations of water-soluble (WSE) and non-polar (NPE) extractives should decrease and those of the acid-soluble (AS) fraction and acid-insoluble residue (AIR) should increase from the L to the F, and from the F to the H layers, but the C/N ratio of soil OM should stay constant after reaching the critical quotient. We also predicted that the AIR concentrations should be higher in the south than north boreal, and in sub-xeric than mesic forests. Consistent with our hypothesis, the concentrations of WSE and NPE fractions decreased and concentrations of AIR increased in the vertical soil gradient. The highest concentrations of the AS fraction were found in the F layer. The C/N ratio was lowest in the F layer, and the highest in the H layer, indicating that soil OM is depleted in N in relation to C along the vertical soil gradient. Concentrations of WSE and NPE were lower, and concentrations of AIR were higher in the south than in north boreal forests, which is in agreement with our hypothesis that higher soil temperatures may enhance accumulation of slowly decomposable OM in the soil. The concentrations of AIR were higher in the sub-xeric than mesic forests. Contrary to our expectations, however, the differences in the chemical quality in soil OM between the site types were amplified from the L to the H layer. The size of the C storage was significantly larger in south than north boreal sites, and larger in the mesic than in the sub-xeric sites.
41505970|A model of the mosquito-mangrove basin ecosystem is presented detailing the habitat of the saltwater mosquito Aedes vigilax utilizing mangrove basin forests in Australia. The modeling included a synthesis of empirical observations and published descriptions including the insect's relevant lifestages, mangrove basin topography and hydrodynamics. Shallow mangrove basins periodically connected by only the highest 10% of high tides with a hummocky substrate micro-topography characterize the main mangrove form conducive to Ae. vigilax breeding. Other essential features include the synchronization of the mosquito's lifecycle to basin hydrodynamics and thus an intricate relationship between hydrodynamics and basin structure. Very small decreases in basin water level (~ 1 cm/day) lead to significant decreases in extent of standing water (for example, 60% over 6 days) across the basin. This results in corresponding increases in the extent of exposed substrate. Also, the modeling demonstrated sensitivity of the mosquito- mangrove basin ecosystem to sea level changes. A hydrologie model of the basin was used to predict mosquito breeding episodes which were tested against a mosquito management larviciding program. The model predicted 75% of all 29 larviciding treatments undertaken. Comparing the model against the two triggers used by mosquito control, tides and rainfall, the model predicted 92% of tidally instigated treatments and 60% of rainfall instigated treatments. Application of the model enables consideration of environment-based minimal habitat modification for mosquito control in mangroves, not previously possible. The model will be applicable to similar species, such as Ae. taeniorhynchus, found in Florida's (USA) mangroves.
41505928|We present an approach to modeling potential climate-driven changes in habitat for tree and bird species in the eastern United States. First we took an empirical-statistical modeling approach, using randomForest, with species abundance data from national inventories combined with soil, climate, and landscape variables, to build abundance-based habitat models for 134 tree and 147 bird species. We produced lists of species for which suitable habitat tends to increase, decrease, or stay the same for any region. Independent assessments of trends of large trees versus seedlings across the eastern U.S. show that 37 of 40 species in common under both studies are currently trending as modeled. We developed a framework, ModFacs, in which we used the literature to assign default modification factor scores for species characteristics that cannot be readily assessed in such models, including 12 disturbance factors (for example, drought, fire, insect pests), nine biological factors (for example, dispersal, shade tolerance), and assessment scores of novel climates, long-distance extrapolations, and output variability by climate model and emission scenario. We also used a spatially explicit cellular model, SHIFT, to calculate colonization potentials for some species, based on their abundance, historic dispersal distances, and the fragmented nature of the landscape. By combining results from the three efforts, we can create projections of potential climate change impacts over the next 100 years or so. Here we emphasize some of the lessons we have learned over 16 years in hopes that they may help guide future experiments, modeling efforts, and management.
25053840|The lack of a clear understanding of the factors governing the often-great variation of species numbers over entire landscapes confounds attempts to manage biodiversity. We hypothesized that in a topographically variable boreal forest landscape the availability of shallow groundwater is a major determinant of plant species numbers. We then developed a topographically derived hydrologic index based on multidirectional flow algorithms to account for the variation in availability of such groundwater in the landscape. We found a positive correlation between species numbers of vascular plants in plots ranging from 0.01 to 200
40296369|During the past 10-15 years removal of planktiand benthivorous fish (mainly roach, Rutilus rutilus, and bream, Abramis brama) has commonly been used as a method to improve the ecological quality of Danish lakes. Here, we examine the general and long-term effects obtained after the removal of 41-1360 kg fish ha in 36 mainly shallow and eutrophic lakes. In lakes in which less than 200 kg fish ha were removed within a 3-year period only minor effects were observed, but at higher removal rates both chemical and biological variables were markedly affected. The concentrations of chlorophyll a (Chla), total phosphorus (TP), total nitrogen (TN), and suspended solids (SS) decreased to 50-70% of the level prior to removal. The most significant and long-lasting effects were found for SS and Secchi depth, whereas the most modest effects were seen for Chla. This probably reflects an efficient and persistent reduction of the bream stock which reduced resuspension and SS, while the biomass of roach returned to former levels, decreasing the zooplankton grazing with less control on Chla. Total algal biomass also declined after fish removal, particularly that of cyanobacteria, whereas the biomass of cryptophytes increased, indicating enhanced grazing pressure by zooplankton. The abundance and species number of submerged macrophytes increased in the majority of the lakes. For most variables the effects of the fish removal were significant for 6-10 years, after which many lakes tended to return to pre-restoration conditions, probably mainly because of consistently high external and internal phosphorus loading. We conclude that a sufficiently extensive removal of plankti-and benthivorous fish is an efficient tool to create clear water; however, repeated fish removal is presumably required to obtain long-term effects in the most nutrient rich lakes.
3658712|Tunnels in feldspar grains, assumed to be created by fungal hyphae, were first discovered in a boreal podzol. In this paper, we further describe the phenomenon of mineral tunneling by determining the rate of feldspar tunneling across a north Sweden podzol chronosequence. The chronosequence is a result of ongoing land uplift, which started after the retreat of glaciers about 9000 years ago. The sequence comprises a series of soils that began developing on glacial tills 190-7800 years ago. Feldspar tunneling was concentrated in the uppermost 2 cm of the E horizon, and its frequency increased significantly with soil age. Although no tunnels were found in feldspar grains from the youngest soil (190 years), they were seen more frequently in soils aged 2000 years and older. This lag phase in tunnel formation of about 2000 years coincided with the disappearance of the easily weatherable potassium-(K) and calcium (Ca)-containing minerals biotite and hornblende and with the appearance of etch pits on feldspar grains. In the oldest soil (7800 y), about 25% of the feldspar grains in the upper 2 cm of the E horizon were tunneled. Within site variation in tunnel frequency was high, and we were able to exclude spatial variations in mineralogy and texture as a possible explanation. The shape of the tunnels, their depth distribution, and the fungal hyphae found inside them all offer support for the previous assumption that their formation is mediated by biological activity involving fungi. The results of this investigation also indicate that the bioavailability of Ca and K may be a factor in tunnel formation.
40296363|Forest regrowth after cropland abandonment and urban sprawl are two counteracting processes that have influenced carbon (C) sequestration in the southeastern United States in recent decades. In this study, we examined patterns of land-use/landcover change and their effect on ecosystem C storage in three west Georgia counties (Muscogee, Harris, and Meriwether) that form a rural-urban gradient. Using time series Landsat imagery data including MSS for 1974, TM for 1983 and 1991, and ETM for 2002, we estimate that from 1974 to 2002, urban land use in the area has increased more than 380% (that is, 184 km 2 ). Most newly urbanized land (63%) has been converted from forestland. Conversely, cropland and pasture area has decreased by over 59% (that is, 380 km). Most of the cropland area was converted to forest. As a result, the net change in forest area was small over the past 29 years. Based on Landsat imagery and agricultural census records, we reconstructed an annual gridded data set of land-cover change for the three counties for the period 1850 to 2002. These data sets were then used as input to the Terrestrial Ecosystem Model (TEM) to simulate land-use effects on C fluxes and storage for the study area. Simulated results suggest that C uptake by forest regrowth (approximately 23.0 g C m y) was slightly greater than the amount of C released due to deforestation (approximately 18.4 g C m y ), thus making the three counties a weak C sink. However, the relative importance of different deforestation processes in this area changed significantly through time. Although agricultural deforestation was generally the most important C-release process, the amount of C release attributable to urbanization has increased over time. Since 1990, urbanization has accounted for 29% of total C loss from the study area. We conclude that balancing urban development and forest protection is critically important for C management and policy making in the southeastern United States.
3659047|The increased exploitation of pelagic sharks by longline fisheries raised questions about changes in the food webs that include sharks as apex predators. We used a version of Ecopath/Ecosim models to evaluate changes in trophic interactions due to shark exploitation in the Central North Pacific. Fisheries targeted on blue sharks tend to produce compensatory responses that favor other shark species and billfishes, but they have only modest effects on the majority of food web components. Modest levels of intraguild predation (adult sharks that eat juvenile sharks) produce strong, nonlinear responses in shark populations. In general, analysis of the Central North Pacific model reveals that sharks are not keystone predators, but that increases in longline fisheries can have profound effects on the food webs that support sharks.
40296348|Hypolimnetic oxygen content in lentic ecosystems has traditionally been modeled as a function of variables measured at the epilimnion, or that are supposed to drive epilimnetic processes, like total phosphorus load. However, in man-made reservoirs the river inflow can plunge into deep layers, directly linking the hypolimnion with the surrounding watershed. In these circumstances, organic matter carried by the river can influence the hypolimnetic oxygen content without important intervention of epilimnetic processes. Taking longterm data from two reservoirs in Spain, we applied an empirical regression approach to show that the dissolved organic matter carried by the river is the main driver shaping the hypolimnetic oxygen content. By contrast, typical variables commonly included in the modeling of the oxygen content in the hypolimnion (nutrient concentrations, chlorophyll a, and dissolved organic carbon measured in the water column) did not show any significant correlation. Interpretations from this regression approach were supported by a comparison between the monthly oxygen consumption in the hypolimnion and the monthly dissolved organic carbon load from the river inflow. We also revisited the prediction of the year-to-year variability of the Nurnberg's anoxic factor in four reservoirs from Spain and the USA, explicitly including the allochthonous sources in the equations. These sources were significant predictors of the anoxic factor, especially in those systems subject to relatively high human impact. Thus, effects of allochthonous dissolved organic carbon should always be considered in empirical modeling and management of reservoir hypolimnetic processes related to oxygen content (for example, anoxia, nutrient internal loading, or phosphorus cycle resilience).
3658620| Global climate change is predicted to alter growing season rainfall patterns, potentially reducing total amounts of growing season precipitation and redistributing rainfall into fewer but larger individual events. Such changes may affect numerous soil, plant, and ecosystem properties in grasslands and ultimately impact their productivity and biological diversity. Rainout shelters are useful tools for experimental manipulations of rainfall patterns, and permanent fixed-location shelters were established in 1997 to conduct the Rainfall Manipulation Plot study in a mesic tallgrass prairie ecosystem in northeastern Kansas. Twelve 9  14-m fixed-location rainfall manipulation shelters were constructed to impose factorial combinations of 30% reduced rainfall quantity and 50% greater interrainfall dry periods on 6  6-m plots, to examine how altered rainfall regimes may affect plant species composition, nutrient cycling, and above- and belowground plant growth dynamics. The shelters provided complete control of growing season rainfall patterns, whereas effects on photosynthetic photon flux density, nighttime net radiation, and soil temperature generally were comparable to other similar shelter designs. Soil and plant responses to the first growing season of rainfall manipulations (1998) suggested that the interval between rainfall events may be a primary driver in grassland ecosystem responses to altered rainfall patterns. Aboveground net primary productivity, soil CO
3658878|The problem of scale has three components: (a) direct measurement is usually confined to small areas and brief periods, (b) the most pressing issues occur at the scale of ecosystems and decades, but (c) direct scale-up fails when pattern and process at small scales differ from those at larger scales. Recognition of this dilemma has grown exponentially since around 1980. The problem of scale is particularly acute for seabirds, which inhabit one of the most extensive habitats on the planet-the surface of the ocean. The application of power laws is a promising solution to the problem. Power laws have a long empirical tradition, are readily estimated from data, and now have a theoretical basis. Power law behavior (with nonintegral exponents) appears in systems with episodically warring exponential rates. In marine ornithology, examples of areas where power laws can be applied include patchy spatial distributions, the association of predator with prey, the scaling of food intake to body size, and fractal habitat structure. Scaling theory and power laws are applicable to a wide variety of ecosystem phenomena and dynamics, including fluxes of material and energy.
40793013|A significant fraction of the Earth's land surface is dominated by bryophytes. Research on carbon and nitrogen budgets of tundra, boreal, and peatland ecosystems has demonstrated the important role of mosses in understanding global change. Bryophytes are also habitat to a highly diverse microbiota that plays a key role in the function of these ecosystems. Here we define the term bryosphere to emphasize the combined role of mosses and their associated organisms in the functioning of ecosystems from local to global scales. In this minireview, we emphasize the value of the bryosphere as a spatially bounded, whole ecosystem that integrates aboveground and belowground processes, and we highlight the potential of the bryosphere as a natural model system (NMS) to assist in the study of environmental change on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. We propose a formal definition of the bryosphere, attempt to summarize the current state of knowledge of the bryosphere, and discuss how the bryosphere can be a complex yet tractable system under an NMS framework. Recent use of the bryosphere as an NMS has shown how alterations in food web structure can affect ecosystem function in a manner that, although predicted by theory, has remained largely untested by experiment. An understanding of the biodiversity, ecosystem functioning, and adaptation of the bryosphere can be advanced by manipulative experiments coupled with a blend of techniques in molecular, physiological, community, and ecosystem ecology. Although studies described herein have demonstrated the utility of the bryosphere NMS for addressing ecological theory, the bryosphere is an underutilized system with exceptional promise.
40296267|Understanding and predicting the ways in which large and intense hurricanes affect ecosystem structure, composition and function is important for the successful management of coastal forest ecosystems. In this research, we categorized forest damage resulting from Hurricane Katrina into four classes (none, low, moderate, heavy) for nearly 450 plots in a 153,000 ha landscape in southern Mississippi, USA, using a combination of air photo interpretation and field sampling. We then developed predictive damage models using single tree classification tree analysis (CTA) and stochastic gradient boosting (SGB) and examined the importance of variables addressing storm meteorology, stand conditions, and site characteristics in predicting forest damage. Overall damage classification accuracies for a training dataset (n = 337 plots) were 72 and 81% for the single tree and SGB models, respectively, with Cohen's weighted linear K values of 0.71 and 0.86. For an independent validation dataset (n = 112 plots), classification accuracy dropped to 57% (K = 0.65) and 56% (K = 0.63) for the single tree and SGB models. Proportions of agreement between observed and predicted damage were significantly greater (P < 0.05) than would be expected by chance alone for all damage classes with the training data and all but the moderate class for the validation data. Stand age was clearly the best predictor of damage for both models, with forest type, stand condition, site aspect, and distance to the nearest perennial stream also explaining much of the variation in forest damage. Measures of storm meteorology (duration and steadiness of hurricane-force winds; maximum sustained winds) were of secondary importance. The forest-wide application of our CTA model provided a realistic, spatially detailed map of predicted damage while also maintaining a relatively high degree of accuracy. The study also provides a first step toward the development of models identifying the susceptibility of forest stands to future events that could be used as an aid to incorporating the effects of large infrequent disturbances into forest management activities.
41507770|Intensification of catchment agriculture has increased nutrient loads and accelerated eutrophication in some lakes, often resulting in episodic harmful algal blooms or prolonged periods of anoxia. The influence of catchment agriculture on lake sediment denitrification capacity as a nitrogen (N) removal mechanism in lakes is largely unknown, particularly in contrast to research on denitrification in agricultural streams and rivers. We measured denitrification enzyme activity (DEA) to assess sediment denitrification potential in seven monomictic and three polymictic lakes that range in the proportion of agriculture in the catchment from 3 to 96% to determine if there is a link between agricultural land use in the lake catchment and sediment denitrification potential. We collected sediment cores for DEA measurements over 3 weeks in austral spring 2008 (October-November). Lake Okaro, with 96% catchment agriculture, had approximately 15 times higher DEA than Lake Tikitapu, with 3% catchment agriculture (232.2  55.9 vs. 15.9  4.5 ng NgAF-DM h, respectively). Additionally, sediment denitrification potential increased with the proportion of catchment in agriculture (R = 0.85, P < 0.001). Our data suggest that lakes retain a high capacity to remove excess N via denitrification under increasing N loads from higher proportions of catchment agriculture. However, evidence from the literature suggests that despite a high capacity for denitrification and longer water residence times, lakes with high N loads will still remove a smaller proportion of their N load. Lakes have a denitrification potential that reflects the condition of the lake catchment, but more measurements of in situ denitrification rates across lake catchments is necessary to determine if this capacity translates to high N removal rates.
3658676|Ecosystems are prototypical examples of complex adaptive systems, in which patterns at higher levels emerge from localized interactions and selection processes acting at lower levels. An essential aspect of such systems is nonlinearity, leading to historical dependency and multiple possible outcomes of dynamics. Given this, it is essential to determine the degree to which system features are determined by environmental conditions, and the degree to which they are the result of self-organization. Furthermore, given the multiple levels at which dynamics become apparent and at which selection can act, central issues relate to how evolution shapes ecosystems properties, and whether ecosystems become buffered to changes (more resilient) over their ecological and evolutionary development or proceed to critical states and the edge of chaos.
27823694|This is the first study on the emergent properties for empirical ecosystem models that have been validated by time series information. Ecosystem models of the western and central Aleutian Islands and Southeast Alaska were used to examine indices of ecosystem status generated from network analysis and incorporated into Ecopath with Ecosim. Dynamic simulations of the two ecosystems over the past 40 years were employed to examine if these indices reflect the dissimilar changes that occurred in the ecosystems. The results showed that the total systems throughput (TST) and ascendancy (A) followed the climate change signature (Pacific decadal oscillation, PDO) in both ecosystems, whereas the redundancy (R) followed the inverse trend. The different trajectories for important species such as Steller sea lions (Eumetopias jubatus), Atka mackerel (Pleurogrammus monopterygius), pollock (Theragra chalcograma), herring (Clupea pallasii), Pacific cod (Gadus macrocephalus) and halibut (Hippoglossus stenolepis) were noticeable in the Finn cycling index (FCI), entropy (H) and average mutual information (AMI): not showing large change during the time that the Stellers sea lions, herring, Pacific cod, halibut and arrowtooth flounder (Atheresthes stomias) increased in Southeast Alaska, but showing large declines during the decline of Steller sea lions, sharks, Atka mackerel and arrowtooth flounder in the Aleutians. On the whole, there was a change in the emergent properties of the Aleutians around 1976 that was not seen in Southeast Alaska. Conversely, the emergent properties of both systems showed a change around 1988, which indicated that both systems were unstable after 1988.
27823707|Northern peatlands are important stores of carbon and reservoirs of biodiversity that are vulnerable to global change. However, the carbon dynamics of individual peatland plant species is poorly understood, despite the potential for rising atmospheric CO2 to affect the vegetation's contribution to overall ecosystem carbon function. Here, we examined the effects of 3 years exposure to elevated CO2 (eCO2) on (a) peatland plant community composition and biomass, and (b) plant carbon dynamics and the production of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) using a 13CO2 pulsechase approach. Results showed that under eCO2, Sphagnum spp. cover declined by 39% (P < 0.05) and Juncus effusus L. cover increased by 40% (P < 0.001). There was a concurrent increase in above- and belowground plant biomass of 115% (P < 0.01) and 96% (P < 0.01), respectively. Vascular species assimilated and turned over more 13CO2-derived carbon than Sphagnum spp. (49% greater turnover of assimilated 13C in J. effusus and F. ovina L. leaf tissues compared with Sphagnum, P < 0.01). Elevated CO2 also produced a 66% rise in DOC concentrations (P < 0.001) and an order of magnitude more 'new' exudate 13DOC than control samples (24 h after 13CO2 pulse-labelling 2.5  0.5 and 0.2  0.1% in eCO2 and control leachate, respectively, P < 0.05). We attribute the observed increase in DOC concentrations under eCO2 to the switch from predominantly Sphagnum spp. to vascular species (namely J. effusus), leading to enhanced exudation and decomposition (litter and peat). The potential for reduced peatland carbon accretion, increased DOC exports and positive feedback to climate change are discussed.
23501470|Biodiversity in wetlands is threatened by habitat loss and fragmentation, of which agricultural activities often are a cause. Dispersal of plant seeds via wind and ditches (water) may contribute to connecting remnant wetland plant populations in modern agricultural landscapes, and help to maintain and restore biodiversity. We developed a spatially explicit model to assess the relative importance of dispersal by wind and dispersal by water through drainage ditches for two wetland plant species in agricultural landscapes: a typical wind disperser and a typical water-disperser. Simulation results show that the typical wind disperser had a much higher capability to disperse by wind (90th percentile <30 m) than the typical water-disperser (90th percentile <2 m). Surprisingly, the capability to disperse via water was similar for the two species: 90th percentile dispersal distances following a combination of wind and water dispersal were between approximately 100 and 1000 m. Dispersal by water transported more seeds over long distances for both species. The main determinants for dispersal distance by water were roughness of the ditch (determined by, for example, bank vegetation) and the presence of obstructions (for example, culverts). Density or direction of the ditch network did not seem to affect water dispersal distances substantially. From a biodiversity conservation perspective, it would be most useful if areas with suitable riparian wetland habitat were intersected with a network of shallow ditches with a high roughness promoting seed deposition. These areas should then be connected to other suitable areas by a few regularly cleaned ditches with no obstructions and low seed trapping probability.
25053850|Analysis of food consumption and agricultural production trends in Sweden has focused on domestic food production levels and yields, overlooking human dependence on ecosystem support. We estimate the ecosystem areas appropriated (ArEAs) for agricultural production (crop and animal feed production and grazing in arable land and marine production for fishmeal used in animal feed) to satisfy Swedish food consumption needs from 1962 to 1994. The total agroecosystem areas worldwide supporting Swedish food consumption (that is, domestic production less exports plus imports) have declined by almost one-third since the 1960s as a result of consumption changes and agricultural intensification. By 1994, Swedish consumption of domestic food crops was halved and consumers relied on agricultural areas outside Sweden to satisfy more than a third (35%) of food consumption needs. Surprisingly, 74% of manufactured animal feed ArEAs were from imported inputs. Moreover, marine ArEAs equal to 12% of the total appropriated areas were needed to support fishmeal usage in animal feed. The results show that domestic agricultural areas do not support Swedish food consumption and that the bulk of manufactured feed used in animal products' production in Sweden is supplied by ecosystems of other nations. These are hidden subsidies of nature, not explicit in Swedish national agricultural policy. Sweden must recognize its high level of dependence on the capacity of ecosystems of other nations to supply its food needs. Ignorance of ecosystem support may increase vulnerability.
23253690|Calcium is an important nutrient that can be limiting in many forest ecosystems, where acid deposition and other natural and anthropogenic activities have resulted in significant soil calcium depletion. Calcium's critical role in physiological and structural processes and its limited mobility and storage in many organisms, make it a potential driver of ecosystem structure and function, but little is known about how changes in soil calcium affect community composition, especially in terrestrial vertebrates. The aim of this study was to establish relationships between the abundances of forest songbird species and soil calcium and to elucidate linking mechanisms by establishing simultaneous relationships with trophic and habitat variables. We measured soil calcium and pH, calcium-rich invertebrate abundances, vegetation, and songbird abundances at 14 interior forest sites across central Pennsylvania representing a range of soil calcium levels. Bird community composition varied with soil calcium and pH, with 10 bird species having the highest abundances in forests with high calcium soils, and five species having the highest abundances with low calcium soils. Bird species associated with low-calcium soils were associated with high densities of mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia), an acid-loving shrub, whereas bird species associated with high-calcium soils were associated with high densities of saplings and high basal area of acid-sensitive tree species. Homogenization of soil conditions through land-use patterns and soil calcium depletion pose the risk of reducing the beta diversity of bird species across forest areas because community composition varied with soil calcium.
25470357|Phosphorus (P) to chlorophyll ratios and zoo-plankton-phytoplankton (Z:P) biomass ratios were assessed in 400 temperate lakes over a gradient of phosphorus (P) and with different fish communities. Most of the lakes in this survey were oligotrophic, with a median total P of 7.3 g P L. Thus, the survey provided information on food web effects during the early phase of eutrophication. There was no tendency toward a reduced yield of autotrophs per unit of P over the gradient covered in this survey. The zooplankton yield per unit of P or chlorophyll a decreased slightly with increased nutrient concentrations, and Z:P biomass ratios decreased with fish community classes, reflecting increased fish predation pressure. However, the variability in biomass ratios within a given range of P and fish class was some 100 times higher than the difference over the gradients. This finding suggests that lake-specific properties, community composition, and food quality are by far the most important determinants of biomass ratios and probably also trophic efficiency in lakes; it further suggests that these factors are superimposed on the general effect of eutrophication, at least up to 30 g P L.
43677519|Quantifying the response of soil respiration to past environmental conditions is critical for predicting how future climate and vegetation change will impact ecosystem carbon balance. Increased shrub dominance in semiarid grasslands has potentially large effects on soil carbon cycling. The goal of this study was to characterize the effect of antecedent moisture and temperature conditions on soil respiration in a grassland now dominated by shrubs. Continuous measurements of soil respiration, soil temperature, and soil moisture were made over the entire summer of 2005 within distinct vegetation microsites in this shrubland communityunder grasses, shrubs, and in open spaces. We analyzed these data within a Bayesian framework that allowed us to evaluate the time-scale over which antecedent conditions influence soil respiration. The addition of antecedent conditions explained an additional 16% of the variation in soil respiration. High soil moisture during the preceding month increased respiration rates in both the grass and shrub microsites. However, the time period over which antecedent soil moisture influenced the temperature sensitivity of soil respiration was shorter in the shrub compared to the grass microsites (1 vs. 2 weeks, respectively). The depth of moisture was important; for example, for respiration under shrubs, near-surface moisture was more influential on the day of the respiration measurement but subsurface moisture was more influential on the antecedent time scale. Although more mechanistic studies are required, this study is the first to reveal that shrub encroachment changes the time scales over which soil moisture and temperature affect soil respiration.
40296313|The boreal forest is the largest terrestrial biome in North America and holds a large portion of the world's reactive soil carbon. Therefore, understanding soil carbon accumulation on a landscape or regional scale across the boreal forest is useful for predicting future soil carbon storage. Here, we examined the relationship between floristic composition and ecosystem parameters, such as soil carbon pools, the carbon-to-nitrogen (C/N) ratio of live black spruce needles, and normalized basal area increment (NBAI) of trees in black spruce communities, the most widespread forest type in the boreal forest of Alaska. Variability in ecosystem properties among black spruce stands was as large as that which had previously been documented among all forest types in the central interior of Alaska; we found an eightfold range in NBAI and fivefold range in mineral soil carbon and nitrogen pools. Acidic black spruce communities had significantly more carbon in the organic soil horizon than did nonacidic black spruce communities, but did not differ in any other measured ecosystem parameter. We explained 48% of the variation in total soil carbon with a combination of plant community indices and abiotic and biotic factors. Plant community composition was at least as effective as any single environmental factor or stand characteristic in predicting soil C pools in Alaskan black spruce ecosystems. We conclude that among the community properties analyzed, the presence of key groups of species, overall species composition, and diversity of certain functional types, especially Sphagnum moss species, are important predictors of soil carbon sequestration in the black spruce forest type.
40603505|Desert grasslands, which are very sensitive to external drivers like climate change, are areas affected by rapid land degradation processes. In many regions of the world the common form of land degradation involves the rapid encroachment of woody plants into desert grasslands. This process, thought to be irreversible and sustained by biophysical feedbacks of global desertification, results in the heterogeneous distribution of vegetation and soil resources. Most of these shrub-grass transition systems at the desert margins are prone to disturbances such as fires, which affect the interactions between ecological, hydrological, and land surface processes. Here we investigate the effect of prescribed fires on the landscape heterogeneity associated with shrub encroachment. Replicated field manipulation experiments were conducted at a shrub-grass transition zone in the northern Chihuahuan desert (New Mexico, USA) using a combination of erosion monitoring techniques, microtopography measurements, infiltration experiments, and isotopie studies. The results indicate that soil erosion is more intense in burned shrub patches compared to burned grass patches and bare interspaces. This enhancement of erosion processes, mainly aeolian, is attributed to the soil-water repellency induced by the burning shrubs, which alters the physical and chemical properties of the soil surface. Further, we show that by enhancing soil erodibility fires allow erosion processes to redistribute resources accumulated by the shrub clumps, thereby leading to a more homogeneous distribution of soil resources. Thus fires counteract or diminish the heterogeneityforming dynamics of land degradation associated with shrub encroachment by enhancing local-scale soil erodibility.
3658800|Hierarchies and adaptive cycles comprise the basis of ecosystems and social-ecological systems across scales. Together they form a panarchy. The panarchy describes how a healthy system can invent and experiment, benefiting from inventions that create opportunity while being kept safe from those that destabilize because of their nature or excessive exuberance. Each level is allowed to operate at its own pace, protected from above by slower, larger levels but invigorated from below by faster, smaller cycles of innovation. The whole panarchy is therefore both creative and conserving. The interactions between cycles in a panarchy combine learning with continuity. An analysis of this process helps to clarify the meaning of "sustainable development." Sustainability is the capacity to create, test, and maintain adaptive capability. Development is the process of creating, testing, and maintaining opportunity. The phrase that combines the two, "sustainable development," thus refers to the goal of fostering adaptive capabilities and creating opportunities. It is therefore not an oxymoron but a term that describes a logical partnership.
3659007|Previous descriptions of soils in the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica, have focused on the dominance of abiotic controls rather than on nutrient cycling. Although free-living N
40296347|Nutrient loading to lakes depends on both the availability of nutrients in a watershed and their potential for movement to a lake. Many studies have demonstrated that variation in watershed land use can translate to differences in lake water quality by affecting nutrient availability. There have been few attempts, however, to understand how loading to surface waters is affected by land use when there are differences in watershed transport capacity. We compared the relationship between land use/cover and lake nutrients in lakes draining watersheds that exhibited high and low transport capacity using a 5 year (2001-2005) dataset describing the chemistry of 101 lakes and reservoirs in a region of intensive agriculture. We measured watershed transport capacity by compositing the hydrologic, geologic, and topographic variables correlated with interannual variability in lake total nitrogen (TN) or phosphorus (TP) because the hydrologic permeability of watersheds amplifies downstream responses to rainfall events. Factors describing watershed transport capacity differed for TN and TP, consistent with differences in nutrient mobility and biogeochemistry. Partial least squares regression revealed that watershed transport capacity influenced the nature of the association between land use/cover and lake chemistry. In watersheds with low transport capacity, in-lake processes and near-shore land use/cover tended to be more influential, whereas, in watersheds with high transport capacity, land use/cover across the entire watershed was important for explaining lake chemistry. Thus, although land use is a key driver of nutrient loading to lakes, the extent to which it influences water quality can vary with watershed transport capacity.
25470331|Forest productivity depends on nutrient supply, and sustained increases in forest productivity under elevated carbon dioxide (CO) may ultimately depend on the response of microbial communities to changes in the quantity and chemistry of plant-derived substrates. We investigated microbial responses to elevated CO in a warm-temperate forest under free-air CO enrichment for 5 years (1997-2001). The experiment was conducted on three 30 m diameter plots under ambient CO and three plots under elevated CO (200 ppm above ambient). To understand how microbial processes changed under elevated CO, we assayed the activity of nine extracellular enzymes responsible for the decomposition of labile and recalcitrant carbon (C) substrates and the release of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) from soil organic matter. Enzyme activities were measured three times per year in a surface organic horizon and in the top 15 cm of mineral soil. Initially, we found significant increases in the decomposition of labile C substrates in the mineral soil horizon under elevated CO; this overall pattern was present but much weaker in the O horizon. Beginning in the 4th year of this study, enzyme activities in the O horizon declined under elevated CO, whereas they continued to be stimulated in the mineral soil horizon. By year 5, the degradation of recalcitrant C substrates in mineral soils was significantly higher under elevated CO. Although there was little direct effect of elevated CO on the activity of N- and P-releasing enzymes, the activity of nutrient-releasing enzymes relative to those responsible for C metabolism suggest that nutrient limitation is increasingly regulating microbial activity in the O horizon. Our results show that the metabolism of microbial communities is significantly altered by the response of primary producers to elevated CO. We hypothesize that ecosystem responses to elevated CO are shifting from primary production to decomposition as a result of increasing nutrient limitation.
25470423|This study examines the effect of elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide [CO] (+340 ppm, C-depleted) and/or elevated air temperature (2.8-3.5C) on the rate and C of soil respiration. The study was conducted in a boreal Norway spruce forest using temperature-controlled whole-tree chambers and C as a marker for root respiration. The C of needle carbohydrates was followed after the onset of the CO treatment in August 2001 and during a 2.5-week period in the summer of 2002. Averaged over the growing seasons of 2002 and 2003, we observed a 48% and 62% increase, respectively, in soil respiration in response to elevated [CO], but no response to elevated air temperature. The percentage increase in response to elevated [CO] varied seasonally (between 10% and 190% relative to the control), but the absolute increase varied less (39  11 mg C m h; mean  SD). Data on C of soil respiration indicate that this increase in soil respiration rate resulted from increased root/rhizosphere respiration of recently fixed carbon. Our results support the hypothesis that root/rhizosphere respiration is sensitive to variation in substrate availability.
40793010|Arid ecosystems receive precipitation pulses of different sizes that may differentially affect nitrogen (N) losses and N turnover during the growing season. We designed a rainfall manipulation experiment in the Patagonian steppe, southern Argentina, where we simulated different precipitation patterns by adding the same amount of water in evenly spaced three-small rainfall events or in one-single large rainfall event, three times during a growing season. We measured the effect of the size of rainfall pulses on N mineralization and N losses by denitrification, ammonia volatilization, and nitrate and ammonia leaching. Irrigation pulses stimulated N mineralization (P< 0.05), with small and frequent pulses showing higher responses than large pulses (P < 0.10). Irrigation effects were transient and did not result in changes in seasonal net N mineralization suggesting a longterm substrate limitation. Water pulses stimulated gaseous N losses by denitrification, with large pulses showing higher responses than small pulses (P < 0.05), but did not stimulate ammonia volatilization. Nitrate leaching also was higher after large than after small precipitation events (P < 0.05). Small events produced higher N transformations and lower N losses by denitrification and nitrate leaching than large events, which would produce higher N availability for plant growth. Climate change is expected to increase the frequency of extreme precipitation events and the proportion of large to small rainfall events. Our results suggest that these changes would result in reduced N availability and a competitive advantage for deep-rooted species that prefer nitrate over ammonia. Similarly, the ammonium: nitrate ratio might decrease because large events foster nitrate losses but not ammonium losses.
27823748|We investigated how the distribution of precipitation over a growing season influences the coupling of carbon and water cycle components in a semiarid floodplain woodland dominated by the deeprooted velvet mesquite (Prosopis velutina). Gross ecosystem production (GEP) and ecosystem respiration (Reco) were frequently uncoupled because of their different sensitivities to growing season rainfall. Soon after the first monsoon rains, Reco was high and was not proportional to slight increases in GEP. During the wettest month of the growing season (July), the system experienced a net carbon loss equivalent to 46% of the carbon accumulated over the 6-month study period (114 g C m2; MayOctober). It appears that a large CO2 efflux and a rapid water loss following precipitation early in the growing season and a later CO2 gain is a defining characteristic of seasonally dry ecosystems. The relative contribution of plant transpiration (T) to total evapotranspiration (ET) (T/ET) was 0.90 for the entire growing season, with T/ET reaching a value of 1 during dry conditions and dropping to as low as 0.65 when the soil surface was wet. The evaporation fraction (E) was equivalent to 31% of the precipitation received during the study period (253 mm) whereas trees and understory vegetation transpired 38 and 31%, respectively, of this water source. The water-use efficiency of the vegetation (GEP/T) was higher later in the growing season when the C4 grassy understory was fully developed. The influence of rain on net ecosystem production (NEP) can be interpreted as the proportion of precipitation that is transpired by the plant community; the water-use efficiency of the vegetation and the precipitation fraction that is lost by evaporation.
25470335|Although succession may follow multiple pathways in a given environment, the causes of such variation are often elusive. This paper describes how changes in fire interval mediate successional trajectory in conifer-dominated boreal forests of northwestern Canada. Tree densities were measured 5 and 19 years after fire in permanent plots and related to pre-fire vegetation, site and fire characteristics. In stands that were greater than 75 years of age when they burned, recruitment density of conifers was significantly correlated with pre-fire species basal area, supporting the expectation of stand self-replacement as the most common successional pathway in these forests. In contrast, stands that were under 25 years of age at the time of burning had significantly reduced conifer recruitment, but showed no change in recruitment of trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides). As a result, young-burned stands had a much higher probability of regenerating to deciduous dominance than mature-burned stands, despite the dominance of both groups by spruce (Picea mariana and Picea glauca) and pine (Pinus contorta) before the fire. Once initiated, deciduous-dominated stands may be maintained across subsequent fire cycles through mechanisms such as low on-site availability of conifer seed, competition with the aspen canopy, and rapid asexual regeneration of aspen after fire. We suggest that climate-related increases in fire frequency could trigger more frequent shifts from conifer to deciduous-dominated successional trajectories in the future, with consequent effects on multiple ecosystem processes.
40296323|To identify the controls on dissolved organic carbon (DOC) production, we incubated soils from 18 sites, a mixture of 52 forest floor and peats and 41 upper mineral soil samples, at three temperatures (3, 10, and 22C) for over a year and measured DOC concentration in the leachate and carbon dioxide (CO) production from the samples. Concentrations of DOC in the leachate were in the range encountered in field soils (< 2 to > 50 mg I). There was a decline in DOC production during the incubation, with initial rates averaging 0.03-0.06 mg DOC g soil C day, falling to averages of 0.01 mg g soil C day; the rate of decline was not strongly related to temperature. Cumulative DOC production rates over the 395 days ranged from less than 0.01 to 0.12 mg g soil C day (0.5-47.6 mg g soil C), with an average of 0.021 mg g soil C day (8.2 mg g soil C). DOC production rate was weakly related to temperature, equivalent to Q values of 0.9 to 1.2 for mineral samples and 1.2 to 1.9 for organic samples. Rates of DOC production in the organic samples were correlated with cellulose (positively) and lignin (negatively) proportion in the organic matter, whereas in the mineral samples C and nitrogen (N) provided positive correlations. The partitioning of C released into CO-C and DOC showed a quotient (CO-C: DOC) that varied widely among the samples, from 1 to 146. The regression coefficient of CO-C: DOC production (log transformed) ranged from 0.3 to 0.7, all significantly less than 1. At high rates of DOC production, a smaller proportion of CO is produced. The CO-C: DOC quotient was dependent on incubation temperature: in the organic soil samples, the CO-C: DOC quotient rose from an average of 6 at 3 to 16 at 22C and in the mineral samples the rise was from 7 to 27. The CO-C: DOC quotient was related to soil pH in the organic samples and C and N forms in the mineral samples.
27823677|Climate warming is expected to have a large impact on plant species composition and productivity in northern latitude ecosystems. Warming can affect vegetation communities directly through temperature effects on plant growth and indirectly through alteration of soil nutrient availability. In addition, warming can cause permafrost to thaw and thermokarst (ground subsidence) to develop, which can alter the structure of the ecosystem by altering hydrological patterns within a site. These multiple direct and indirect effects of permafrost thawing are difficult to simulate in experimental approaches that often manipulate only one or two factors. Here, we used a natural gradient approach with three sites to represent stages in the process of permafrost thawing and thermokarst. We found that vascular plant biomass shifted from graminoid-dominated tundra in the least disturbed site to shrub-dominated tundra at the oldest, most subsided site, whereas the intermediate site was co-dominated by both plant functional groups. Vascular plant productivity patterns followed the changes in biomass, whereas nonvascular moss productivity was especially important in the oldest, most subsided site. The coefficient of variation for soil moisture was higher in the oldest, most subsided site suggesting that in addition to more wet microsites, there were other microsites that were drier. Across all sites, graminoids preferred the cold, dry microsites whereas the moss and shrubs were associated with the warm, moist microsites. Total nitrogen contained in green plant biomass differed across sites, suggesting that there were increases in soil nitrogen availability where permafrost had thawed.
3658976|Soil acidity and calcium (Ca) availability in the surface soil differ substantially beneath sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) trees in a mixed forest in northwestern Connecticut. We determined the effect of pumping of Ca from deep soil (rooting zone below 20-cm mineral soil) to explain the higher available Ca content in the surface soil beneath sugar maple. We measured the atmospheric input of Ca with bulk deposition collectors and estimated Ca weathering and Ca mineralization in the surface soil (rooting zone above 20-cm mineral soil) from strontium isotope measurements and observed changes in exchangeable Ca in soils during field incubation. Calcium leaching at 20 cm was calculated by combining modeled hydrology with measured Ca soil solution concentrations at 20-cm depth. We measured root length distribution with depth beneath both tree species. Calcium leaching from the surface soil was much higher beneath sugar maple than hemlock and was positively related with the amount of Ca available in the surface soil. Calcium leaching from the surface soil beneath sugar maple was higher than the combined Ca input from atmospheric deposition and soil weathering. Without Ca uptake in the deep soil, surface soils are being depleted in Ca, especially beneath sugar maple. More organically bound Ca was mineralized beneath sugar maple than beneath hemlock. A relatively small part of this Ca release was leached below the surface soil, suggesting that, beneath both tree species, most of the Ca cycling is occurring in the surface soil. Sugar maple had more fine roots in the deep soil than hemlock and a greater potential to absorb Ca in the deep soil. With a simple model, we showed that a relatively small amount of Ca uptake in the deep soil beneath sugar maple is able to sustain high amounts of available Ca in the surface soil.
3659013|The isotope decay method of estimating below-ground net primary production (BNPP) has the potential to overcome the assumptions and biases associated with traditional methods. Isotope loss through in situ decomposition after pulse-labeling is considered the inverse of production, and turnover times are estimated by regression to time of zero remaining isotope. Method development and estimates of production were previously published using 4 years of data, which showed a clear linear loss rate over time. A slow, distinctly different phase in isotope loss developed 5-10 years postlabeling. We assess reasons for the two-phase loss functions and the implications for estimates of BNPP and compare the isotope decay method with standard coring methods over a 13-year period. Reasons for the two-phase dynamics of carbon 14 (
3658946|The quantity and quality of freshwater resources are now being seriously threatened, partly as a result of extensive worldwide changes in land use, and scientists are often called upon by policy makers and managers to predict the ecological consequences that these alterations will have for stream ecosystems. The effects of the urbanization of stream ecosystems in the United States over the next 20 years are of particular concern. To address this issue, we present a multidisciplinary research agenda designed to improve our forecasting of the effects of land-use change on stream ecosystems. Currently, there are gaps in both our knowledge and the data that make it difficult to link the disparate models used by economists, hydrologists, geomorphologists, and ecologists. We identify a number of points that practitioners in each discipline were not comfortable compromising on-for example, by assuming an average condition for a given variable. We provide five instructive examples of the limitations to our ability to forecast the fate of stream and riverine ecosystems one drawn from each modeling step: (a) Accurate economic methods to forecast land-use changes over long periods (such as 20 years) are not available, especially not at spatially explicit scales; (b) geographic data are not always available at the appropriate resolution and are not always organized in categories that are hydrologically, ecologically, or economically meaningful; (c) the relationship between low flows and land use is sometimes hard to establish in anthropogenically affected catchments; (d) bed mobility, suspended sediment load, and channel form-all of which are important for ecological communities in streams-are difficult to predict; and (e) species distributions in rivers are not well documented, and the data that do exist are not always publicly available or have not been sampled at accurate scales, making it difficult to model ecological responses to specified levels of environmental change. Meeting these challenges will require both interdisciplinary cooperation and a reviewed commitment to intradisciplinary research in the fields of economics, geography, quantitative spatial analysis, hydrology, geomorphology, and ecology.
41505968|Recent studies have shown that tropical and subtropical forests expanded during the late Holocene, but rates and mechanisms of expansion are still unknown. Here, we investigate how a forestgrassland mosaic changed over the past 10,000 years at the southernmost limit of the Brazilian Atlantic forest. We used soil organic matter carbon isotopes (C and C) to quantify and date changes in vegetation, examining soil properties and leaf traits of tree species (nutrient content, (C, N, and specific leaf areaSLA) to describe potential mechanisms of expansion. Our results show that after several millennia of stability, forests have been expanding over grasslands through continuous, but very slow, border dynamics and patch formation (< 100 m since ~4,000 YBP). This process of expansion coincided with past changes in climate, but biotic feedback mechanisms also appear to be important for the long-term persistence and expansion of forests. Soil fertility and microbial biomass match current rather than past vegetation distribution, increasing progressively across the gradient: grasslands < isolated trees < forest patches < forests. Foliar N values of trees that are able to colonize the grassland are consistently lower across this vegetation gradient, suggesting an increasingly greater reliance on symbiotic nutrient uptake from grasslands to forests. No significant relationships were found between soil and leaf nutrients, but SLA explained variation in leaf N, P, and (positive relationships) and in leaf C (negative relationship). These findings suggest that a tradeoff between tree growth and water use efficiency is an important regulator of forest-grassland dynamics in the study region.
43677538|Urban forests provide ecosystem services for millions of people. Numerous introductions have elevated tree species richness in cities, which may enhance functional diversity. However, few studies have examined changes in tree community composition or functional diversity with urbanization, even though functional diversity, and not species number per se, is directly linked with ecosystem function and associated services. We combined tree abundance data from both urban and extra-urban forest inventory plots for seven metropolitan areas in eastern North America to analyze changes in species composition, Shannon's diversity, and functional diversity with urbanization. As expected, urban tree diversity was reduced at local scales, and the effect varied with land use. Rarefaction analysis indicated that at large scales, urban tree species pools were equal with respect to species or functional diversity compared to extra-urban forests, but in urban areas at small scales this diversity is not realized because of low tree density. Ordination revealed that with urbanization, introduced species increased in importance, and regional variation in species composition became more homogenous. Increasing tree density and/or tree cover through changes in management practices and urban design could facilitate local scale urban tree diversity using existing species pools, which are functionally diverse. Monitoring of forests at large spatial scales that include urban areas, and the use of methods that account for abundance and functional trait variation can provide insights into the effects of urbanization on tree diversity at multiple scales.
3658752|Disturbance events vary in intensity, size, and frequency, but few opportunities exist to study those that are extreme on more than one of these gradients. This article characterizes successional processes that occur following infrequent disturbance events that are exceptional in their great intensity or large size. The spatial variability in disturbance intensity within large, infrequent disturbances (LIDs) often leads to a heterogeneous pattern of surviving organisms. These surviving organisms dictate much of the initial successional pattern on large disturbances where the opportunities for seeds to disperse into the middle of the disturbance are limited. The traditional distinction between primary and secondary succession is insufficient to capture the tremendous variability in succession following LIDs. Disturbance size influences succession where long-distance colonization by propagules is important. Observations from LIDs suggest the following interrelated hypotheses about trends in succession with increasing distance from seed sources when disturbance intensity is high: (a) initial densities of organisms will be lower; (b) nucleation processes, in which recovering patches serve as foci for additional colonization and expand spatially, will be more important; (c) competitive sorting will be less important relative to chance arrival in determination of community composition, and (d) community composition will be initially less predictable; and (e) the rate of recovery of community composition will be slower. Prediction of succession following LIDs without considering contingencies such as the abundance, types, and spatial distribution of residuals, and distance to seed sources is likely to be unsuccessful for large portions of the landscape. Abundance and spatial arrangement of survivors and arrival patterns of propagules may be the pivotal factors determining how succession differs between intense disturbances of large and small extent.
40603504|Fog is thought to influence ecological function in coastal forests worldwide, yet few data are available that illuminate the mechanisms underlying this influence. In a California redwood forest we measured water and nitrogen (N) fluxes from horizontally moving fog and vertically delivered rain as well as redwood tree function. The spatial heterogeneity of water and N fluxes, water availability, tree water use, and canopy N processing varied greatly across seasons. Water and N fluxes to soil (annual average of 98% and 89%, respectively) across the whole forest occurred primarily in the rain season and was relatively even across the whole forest. In contrast, below-canopy flux of fog water and N declined exponentially from the windward edge to the forest interior. Following large fog events, soil moisture was greater at the windward edge than anywhere else in the forest. Physiological activity in redwoods reflected these differences in inputs across seasons: tree physiological responses did not vary spatially in the rain season, but in the fog season, water use was greater, yet water stress was less, in trees at the windward edge of the forest versus the interior. In both seasons, vertical passage through the forest changed the amount of water and form and concentration of N, revealing the role of the tree canopy in processing atmospheric inputs. Although total fog water inputs were comparatively small, they may have important ecosystem functions, including relief of canopy water stress and, where there is fog drip, functional coupling of above-and belowground processes.
40296273|Nitrogen fixation was measured in constructed old-field ecosystems that were exposed for 3 years to different combinations of elevated atmospheric [CO] and temperature (300 ppm and 3C above ambient respectively), and ambient or reduced soil moisture (corresponding to 25 or 2 mm rainfall per week). The old-fields included seven planted herbaceous annual and perennial species, including two legumes (Trifolium pratense and Lespedeza cuneata). Potential asymbiotic N -fixation by soils, measured in laboratory incubations, was significantly less under the "dry" treatment but was estimated to contribute little overall to annual ecosystem N budgets. Foliar N concentrations declined significantly under elevated [CO]. Effects of the three environmental factors on the mean (SE) fraction of legume N derived from atmospheric N
3658720|The nitrogen (N) cycle of forest ecosystems is understood relatively well, and few scientists expect that major revisions will be necessary; most current work on N cycling focuses on improving the precision estimates of pools and fluxes, or measuring the magnitudes of well-known pools in response to management or disturbances. However, in the past few decades more than a dozen articles in refereed journals have claimed very high rates of N input, far beyond the rates expected for known sources of N. In this review, we summarize the literature on N accretion rates in forests that lack substantial contributions from symbiotic N-fixing plants. We critique each study for the strength of the experimental design behind the estimate of N accretion and consider whether unexpectedly large inputs of N really occur in forests. Only 6 of 24 estimates of N accretion had strong experimental designs, and only 2 of these 6 yielded estimates of $>5\ {\rm kg}\ {\rm N}\ {\rm ha}^{-1}\ {\rm y}^{-1}$. The high accretion estimates with a strong experimental design come from repeated sampling at the Walker Branch watersheds in Tennessee, where N accretion rates ranged from 50 to
27823747|Lake models that predict phosphorus (P) concentrations from P-loading have provided important knowledge enabling successful restoration of many eutrophic lakes during the last decades. However, the first-generation (static) models were rather imprecise and some nutrient abatement programs have therefore produced disappointingly modest results. This study compares 12 first-generation models with three newer ones. These newer models are dynamic (time-dependent), and general in the sense that they work without any further calibration for lakes from a wide limnological domain. However, static models are more accessible to non-specialists. Predictions of P concentrations were compared with empirical long-term data from a multi-lake survey, as well as to data from transient conditions in six lakes. Dynamic models were found to predict P concentrations with much higher certainty than static models. One general dynamic model, LakeMab, works for both deep and shallow lakes and can, in contrast to static models, predict P fluxes and particulate and dissolved P, both in surface waters and deep waters. PCLake, another general dynamic model, has advantages that resemble those of LakeMab, except that it needs three or four more input variables and is only valid for shallow lakes.
3658962|There is much demand for quantitative models to aid in comparison of policy options and design of adaptive management policies for riparian ecosystems. Such models must represent a wide variety of physical and biological factors that can vary on space-time scales from meters-seconds to basin-decades. It is not possible in practice to develop a complete model for all variation. Incomplete but still useful models can be developed by using state variable identification methods that focus scientific attention on causal pathways of most direct policy concern, and by using various analytical methods to provide cross-scale analytical predictions about effects of microscale variation. The main value of such models has not been to provide detailed quantitative prescriptions, but to help identify robust, qualitative arguments about efficacy of various policy choices. However, they have not been successful at representing some important dynamic effects in riparian systems, where small physical changes (such as overtopping dikes) and infrequent extreme physical events can cause habitat changes at large spatial scales and ecological impacts that last for decadal or even longer time scales.
23328064|In spite of the extensive area of bogs in the southern cone of South America, there have been very few studies on structure and dynamics of conifer bog forests in this region. Previously, it has been assumed that in the absence of intensive disturbance, the dominant conifer Pilgerodendron uviferum (D. Don) Florin would be replaced through other angiosperm species. Here we hypothesized (a) that this conifer can persist without intensive disturbances and develop into old-growth forests with continuing regeneration and (b) that high-severity disturbances through fire threaten its local persistence. To test this hypotheses, we analyzed diameter and age structure, foliar and soil nutrient levels and the light environment of old-growth and fire-disturbed P. uviferum stands on Chilo Island (43S) in North Patagonia. Longevity (>880 years), extremely slow growth (< 1 mm diameter per year) and tolerance to shade and stress are the main mechanisms of P. uviferum persistence in nutrient-poor and waterlogged conditions. Hence, old-growth P. uviferum forests are not a transitional phase in forest succession and may be maintained in the landscape for many centuries or millennia. However, in fire-disturbed stands, live trees of the species were rare and regeneration negligible, showing that high-severity fires can eliminate the species from parts of the landscape, where neither propagules nor seed trees survive. This underpins the importance of biological legacies such as seed trees for the recovery of disturbed sites, and points to the need for active restoration approaches to restore fire-degraded P. uviferum forests.
40603661|Classical models of phytoplankton-zooplankton interaction show that with nutrient enrichment such systems may abruptly shift from limit cycles to stable phytoplankton domination due to zooplankton prdation by planktivorous fish. Such models assume that planktivorous fish eat only zooplankton, but there are various species of filter-feeding fish that may also feed on phytoplankton. Here, we extend these classical models to systematically explore the effects of omnivory by planktivorous fish. Our analysis indicates that if fish forage on phytoplankton in addition to zooplankton, the alternative attractors predicted by the classical models disappear for all realistic parameter settings, even if omnivorous fish have a strong preference for zooplankton. Our model also shows that the level of fish biomass above which zooplankton collapse should be higher when fish are omnivorous than when fish are zooplanktivorous. We also used the model to explore the potential effects of the now increasingly common practice of stocking lakes with filter-feeding fish to control cyanobacteria. Because omnivorous filterfeeding fish forage on phytoplankton as well as on the main grazers of phytoplankton, the net effect of such fish on the phytoplankton biomass is not obvious. Our model suggests that there may be a unimodal relationship between the biomass of omnivorous filter-feeding fish and the biomass of phytoplankton. This implies that to manage for reductions in phytoplankton biomass, heavy stocking or strong reduction of such fish is best.
3658713|We developed a stylized mathematical model to explore the effects of physical, ecological, and economic factors on the resilience of a managed firedriven rangeland system. Depending on grazing pressure, the model exhibits one of three distinct configurations: a fire-dominated, grazing-dominated, or shrub-dominated rangeland system. Transaction costs and costs due to shrub invasion, via their effect on grazing decisions, strongly influence which stable configuration is occupied. This, in turn, determines the resilience of the rangeland system. These results are used to establish conditions under which management for profit is consistent with the maintenance of resilience.
40603642|Plant and microbial use of nitrogen (N) can be simultaneously mutualistic and competitive, particularly in ecosystems dominated by mycorrhizal fungi. Our goal was to quantify plant uptake of organic and inorganic N across a broad latitudinal gradient of forest ecosystems that varied with respect to overstory taxon, edaphic characteristics, and dominant mycorrhizal association. Using C and N, we observed in situ the cycling dynamics of NH and glycine through various soil pools and fine roots over 14 days. Recovery of N as soil N varied with respect to N form, forest type, and sampling period; however, there were similarities in the cycling dynamics of glycine and NH among all forest types. Microbial immobilization of N was immediately apparent for both treatments and represented the largest sink (~25%) for N among extractable soil N pools uring the first 24 h. In contrast, fine roots were a relatively small sink (< 10%) for both N forms, but fine root C enrichment indicated that plants in all forest types absorbed glycine intact, suggesting that plants and microbes effectively target the same labile soil N pools. Relative uptake of amino acid-N versus NH varied significantly among sites and approximately half of this variation was explained by mycorrhizal association. Estimates of plant uptake of amino acid-N relative to NH were 3  higher in ectomycorrhizal-dominated stands (1.6  0.2) than arbuscular mycorrhizae-dominated stands (0.5  0.1). We conclude that free amino acids are an important component of the N economy in all stands studied; however, in these natural environments plant uptake of organic N relative to inorganic N is explained as much by mycorrhizal association as by the availability of N forms per se.
3658963|We conducted a study to evaluate the relative importance of topography, grazing, the location of individual plants (microsite), and plant species in controlling the spatial variability of soil organic matter in shortgrass steppe ecosystems. We found that the largest spatial variation occurs in concert with topography and with microsite-scale heter-ogeneity, with relatively little spatial variability due to grazing or to plant species. Total soil C and N, coarse and fine particulate organic matter C and N, and potentially mineralizable C were significantly affected by topography, with higher levels in toeslope positions than in midslopes or summits. Soils beneath individual plants (Bouteloua gracilis and Opuntia polyacantha) were elevated by 2-3 cm relative to surrounding soils. All pools of soil organic matter were significantly higher in the raised hummocks directly beneath plants than in the soil surface of interspaces or this layer under plants. High levels of mineral material in the hummocks suggest that erosion is an important process in their formation, perhaps in addition to biotic accumulation of litter beneath individual plants. Over 50 y of heavy grazing by cattle did not have a significant effect on most of the soil organic matter pools we studied. This result was consistent with our hypothesis that this system, with its strong dominance of belowground organic matter, is minimally influenced by aboveground herbivory. In addition, soils beneath two of the important plant species of the shortgrass steppe, B. gracilis and O. polyacantha, differed little from one another. The processes that create spatial variability in shortgrass steppe ecosystems do not affect all soil organic matter pools equally. Topographic variability, developing over pedogenic time scales (centuries to thousands of years), has the largest effect on the most stable pools of soil organic matter. The influence of microsite is most evident in the pools of organic matter that turn over at time scales that approximate the life span of individual plants (years to decades and centuries).
40296357|Soil microbes are among the most abundant and diverse organisms on Earth. Although microbial decomposers, particularly fungi, are important mediators of global carbon and nutrient cycling, the functional roles of specific taxa within natural environments remain unclear. We used a nucleotide-analog technique in soils from the Harvard Forest to characterize the fungal taxa that responded to the addition of five different carbon substratesglycine, sucrose, cellulose, lignin, and tannin-protein. We show that fungal community structure and richness shift in response to different carbon sources, and we demonstrate that particular fungal taxa target different organic compounds within soil microcosms. Specifically, we identified eleven taxa that exhibited changes in relative abundances across substrate treatments. These results imply that niche partitioning through specialized resource use may be an important mechanism by which soil microbial diversity is maintained in ecosystems. Consequently, high microbial diversity may be necessary to sustain ecosystem processes and stability under global change.
3658896|Although they drain remarkably similar forest types, streams of the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF) vary widely in their NO
43677515|Predicted reductions of cool-season rainfall may expand and accelerate drought-induced plant mortality currently unfolding across the Southwest US. To assess how repeated plant mortality affects ecosystem functional attributes, we quantified net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE), ecosystem respiration (Reco), and gross ecosystem photosynthesis (GEP) responses to precipitation (P) at a semidesert grassland over spring (Feb 1-Apr 30) and summer (June 15-Oct 1) plant-active periods across eight years, including two with distinct patterns of extensive species-specific mortality. In addition, we quantified daily soil respiration (Rsoil) in high- (56-88%) and low-mortality (8-27%) plots the summer following the most recent mortality event. Plant mortality coincided with severely dry cool-season conditions (Dec 1-Apr 30). We found a positive relationship between springtime P and GEP, and that springtime conditions influenced GEP response to summer rainfall. High springtime Reco/GEP ratios followed plant mortality, suggesting increased available carbon after mortality was rapidly decomposed. Rsoil in low-mortality plots exceeded high-mortality plots over drier summer periods, likely from more root respiration. However, total cumulative Rsoil did not differ between plots, as variation in surviving plant conditions resulted in high and low C-yielding plots within both plot types. Vegetation status in high C-yielding Rsoil plots was similar to that across the grassland, suggesting Rsoil from such areas underlay higher Reco. This, coupled to springtime drought constraints to GEP, resulted in positive NEE under summer P accumulations that previously supported C-sink activity. These findings indicate that predicted lower cool-season precipitation may strongly and negatively affect summer season productivity in these semiarid grasslands.
3658925|The stocking of trout in wilderness lakes of the western United States began in the 1800s. This practice was followed for nearly a century with the singular goal of creating and enhancing sport fishing and without any consideration of its ecological ramifications. Following the advent of a new environmental awareness in the 1960s, and thanks to new research that revealed negative impacts on the biota attributable to introduced fishes, traditional fish-stocking practices came under question first at federal land management agencies and later at their counterparts within the states. The highly utilitarian ethic that drove resource management until well into the 1960s was gradually replaced by one that acknowledges the value of all life forms and their ecological complexity, a view currently supported even by many anglers. The necessity for wilderness fish stocking is now the subject of widespread debate, especially in view of changing social values and priorities. Options for future generations cannot be preserved if introductions continue to erode the biodiversity of mountain lake ecosystems.
3658937|We evaluated the effects of the exotic tree Fraxinus uhdei on decomposition dynamics and nutrient turnover in a montane Hawaiian rainforest. We used reciprocal transplants of litterbags between forests dominated by Fraxinus and by the native Metrosideros polymorpha to distinguish between endogenous (litter quality) and exogenous (for example, microclimate, nutrient availability, microbial and invertebrate communities) effects of Fraxinus on mass loss and nutrient dynamics of decomposing litter. Fraxinus produced greater quantities of litter that was thinner, had higher N and P concentrations, and lower concentrations of lignin and soluble polyphenols. Microbes decomposing Fraxinus litter produced fewer enzymes involved in N and P acquisition and more of those involved in cellulose degradation. Differences in litter quality and microbial activity resulted in a strong effect of litter type on rates of mass loss, whereby Fraxinus litter decomposed and released nutrients at nearly twice the rate of Metrosideros litter (k = 0.82 versus 0.48), regardless of site of decomposition. Although site of decomposition had no effect on rates of litter mass loss, Fraxinus litter decomposed under a Fraxinus canopy mineralized approximately 20% less P after one year than Fraxinus litter decomposed under a Metrosideros canopy. Furthermore, Fraxinus litter decomposed under a Fraxinus canopy immobilized greater amounts of N and P in the early stages of decay, suggesting that the large amounts of N and P in Fraxinus litterfall have raised nutrient availability to decomposers in the forest floor. Greater immobilization of N and P under a Fraxinus canopy may act as a governor on rates of nutrient cycling, limiting the degree to which Fraxinus invasion accelerates N and P cycling in this system.
41507774|Dynamic relationships among climate, disturbance, and vegetation affect the spatial configuration and composition of ecological communities. Paleoecological records indicate the importance of such relationships in Minnesota's Big Woods (BW) region, where isolated hardwood forest populations expanded to regional dominance after AD 1250. We used LANDIS-II to model the BW forest expansion, and conducted simulation experiments that isolated the important ecological factors in this regional change. In our simulations, BW forest expanded at approximately 15 m per year to achieve regional dominance within 600 years, which is comparable to empirical records. The distribution of the BW depended on the locations of scattered pre-existing tree populations that were sheltered from previous severe fire regimes by firebreaks. During the simulated spread of the tree populations, however, the presence or absence of firebreaks did not further influence vegetation pattern. When we assumed a fire rotation of 10-13 years in grasslands/woodlands and more than 400 years in BW, the feedback between fireresistant BW fuels and fire severity caused fire severity to decline in a time frame consistent with sedimentary data. In our simulations, seed dispersal from core initial populations caused forest expansion, changed fuel loads, and thus reduced fire severitynot the other way around as has been commonly proposed. Forest expansion was slowed by fire, but species' life history attributes, namely seed dispersal distances and maturity ages, asynchronous successional dynamics across many stands, and landscape history were at least as important in the temporal and spatial patterns of the regional response to climate change.
3658771|The interaction of fast and slow processes is an integral part of the sudden large shifts that sometimes occur in ecosystems. To study the effects of slow/fast variables on ecosystems, we used a range of examples from natural and exploited aquatic and terrestrial systems. So-called catastrophic bifurcations in the dynamics of the fast components are at the heart of such dramatic shifts. We discuss some of the most important bifurcations and show how they can be analyzed. Subsequently, we show how the interaction with slowly changing variables can be understood from graphs constructed in a simple way using the singular perturbation approach.
25470365|We examined the role of red deer (Cervus elaphus L.) in translocating phosphorus (P) from their preferred grazing sites (short-grass vegetation on subalpine grasslands) to their wider home range in a subalpine grassland ecosystem in the Central European Alps. Phosphorus was used because it is the limiting nutrient in these grasslands. When we compared P removal of aboveground biomass due to grazing with P input due to the deposit of feces on a grid of 268 cells (20 m  20 m) covering the entire grassland, we detected distinct spatial patterns: the proportion of heavily grazed short-grass vegetation increased with increasing soil-P pool, suggesting that red deer preferably grazed on grid cells with a higher soil-P pool. Biomass consumption related to increased proportion of short-grass vegetation, and therefore P removal, increased with increasing soil-P pool. However, within the two vegetation types (short-grass and tall-grass), consumption was independent from soil-P pool. In addition, P input rates from defecation increased with increasing soil-P pool, resulting in a constant mean net P loss of 0.083 kg ha y (0.03%-0.07% of soil-P pool) independent of both soil-P pool and vegetation type. Thus, there was no P translocation between grid cells with different soil-P pools or between short-grass and tall-grass vegetation. Based on these results, it is likely that the net rate of P loss is too small to explain the observed changes in vegetation composition from tall-herb/meadow communities to short-grass and from tall-grass to short-grass on the grassland since 1917. Instead, we suggest that the grazing patterns of red deer directly induced succession from tall-herb/meadow communities to short-grass vegetation. Yet, it is also possible that long-term net soil-P losses indirectly drive plant succession from short-grass to tall-grass vegetation, because nutrient depletion could reduce grazing pressure in short-grass vegetation and enable the characteristic tall-grass species Carex sempervirens Vill. to establish.
40603424|The vast majority of lakes examined worldwide emit CO to the overlying atmosphere, through a process by which catchment-derived subsidies of terrigenous C, often in the form of dissolved organic carbon (DOC), augment within-lake CO production above the level consumed via photosynthesis.follow this pattern. These lakes are strong summertime CO absorbers, despite DOCconcentrations at or above levels commonly shown to produce CO emission. Paradoxically, CO levels were lowest where DOC was greatest, in lakes which appear to be annual net CO absorbers, and have poor hydrologie connection to the terrestrial landscape. CO in these lakes is depleted by high macrophyte productivity, and although catchmentderived C subsidies are low, within-lake DOC generation appears to occur as a byproduct of macrophyte photosynthesis and evapoconcentration.Additionally, after accounting for DOC and macrophytes, lakes that were least connected to the larger terrestrial landscape remained weaker CO absorbers, suggesting that CO balance may also be affected by DOC quality, foodweb structure, or inputs of pCO -rich riverwater to connected lakes. In contrast, a small subset of Delta lakes that were strongly affected by permafrost melting were CO emitters, suggesting future permafrost degradation could engender a change in the overall CO balance of these lakes from near-CO neutral over the ice-free season, to clear CO emission. Our work suggests that the current paradigm of lakewater CO regulation may need to specifically incorporate shallow, productive lakes, and those that are poorly connected to their surrounding landscape.
23501434|Significant concern has emerged over the past decades regarding decreases in available base cations (that is, calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium) in forest soils and surface waters. Base cations (BCs) are important for buffering against changes in soil and water acidity, and their concentrations can be indicative of environmental management problems such as those linked to acid deposition and land use. Climate variability is also a potentially large factor influencing the dynamics of BCs in soils and surface waters, but our understanding of these interactions at broad scales remains elusive. We used a hierarchical Bayesian model to evaluate the long-term (1990-2010) patterns and drivers of BC concentrations for 60 stream and river monitoring stations across Sweden. Results indicated that the long-term trends in concentration, and the associated environmental drivers, differed among individual BCs and geographical regions. For example, we found that concentrations of Ca 2+ , Mg 2+ , K + , and Na + have decreased in southern Sweden since 1990 and that this is strongly related to concurrent declines in sulfate (SO 4 2- ) over the same period of record. In contrast, concentrations of Ca 2+ , Mg 2+ , K + , and Na + in northern Sweden did not exhibit significant directional trends, despite declines in SO 4 2- , nitrate (NO 3 - ), and chloride (Cl - ) over the same period. Instead, BC dynamics in the north are characterized by inter-annual variability that is most closely linked to climate variables. Results suggest that the interaction between climatic variability and historical acid deposition determines the regional pattern and long-term trends of BC concentrations across streams and rivers of Sweden. Understanding the strength of the interaction between climate features and historic deposition will greatly improve our ability to predict long-term trends of Ca 2+ , Mg 2+ , K + , and Na + and their inter-annual dynamics in the future.
27823764|The influence of forest stand composition on soil was investigated by comparing the forest floor (FH) and upper mineral soil (020 cm) nutritional properties of jack pine and aspen stands on two soil types of contrasting fertility, a coarse-textured and a fine-textured deposit, in a replicated design. The studied tree species are pioneers that are found after major disturbances in the southern boreal forest of western Quebec and that differ in their nutrient requirements but not in their growth rate. Soil organic matter as well as total and available N, P, K, Ca, Mg contents were determined and the relationships with nutrient accumulation in tree biomass were studied. On both soil types a greater total and available nutrient accumulation in the forest floor layer was observed in aspen than in jack pine whereas such differences between stand types could not be detected in the mineral soil. Differences in FH nutrient content between stand types were larger on coarse deposits than on fine-textured soils. These results support the hypothesis that tree species with greater nutrient requirements cause an enrichment of the surface soil at least in the short term. The modulation of tree species effect by soil type was contrary to the pattern observed in other studies since a greater expression of this effect was observed on poorer soils. Differences in soil nutrient content were related to levels of organic matter accumulation.
40296287|Losses of soil base cations due to acid rain have been implicated in declines of red spruce and sugar maple in the northeastern USA. We studied fine root and aboveground biomass and production in five northern hardwood and three conifer stands differing in soil Ca status at Sleepers River, VT; Hubbard Brook, NH; and Cone Pond, NH. Neither aboveground biomass and production nor belowground biomass were related to soil Ca or Ca: Al ratios across this gradient. Hardwood stands had 37% higher aboveground biomass (P = 0.03) and 44% higher leaf litter production (P < 0.01) than the conifer stands, on average. Fine root biomass (< 2 mm in diameter) in the upper 35 cm of the soil, including the forest floor, was very similar in hardwoods and conifers (5.92 and 5.93 Mg ha). The turnover coefficient (TC) of fine roots smaller than 1 mm ranged from 0.62 to 1.86 y; and increased significantly with soil exchangeable Ca (P = 0.03). As a result, calculated fine root production was clearly higher in sites with higher soil Ca (P = 0.02). Fine root production (biomass times turnover) ranged from 1.2 to 3.7 Mg ha y for hardwood stands and from 0.9 to 2.3 Mg ha y for conifer stands. The relationship we observed between soil Ca availability and root production suggests that cation depletion might lead to reduced carbon allocation to roots in these ecosystems.
25470315|This paper describes a new method to derive nitrogen critical loads for vegetation, and its application to The Netherlands. An 'inverted' form of the soil chemical model SMART2 was used to estimate atmospheric nitrogen deposition at the critical conditions for 139 terrestrial vegetation types (associations) occurring in northwestern Europe, using an iterative search procedure. The critical conditions are the lower end of the pH range, and the upper end of the nitrogen availability range for each vegetation type. The critical load is assumed to be the nitrogen deposition that results in the critical conditions. The critical load values were subjected to a sensitivity and uncertainty analysis. Sensitivity analysis showed that the estimated critical N load mainly depends on the vegetation type and to a lesser extent on the soil type and the critical N availability. Of these variables N availability, which was estimated from Ellenberg's indicator scale, contributes most to the uncertainty. The critical load averaged over all vegetation types and soil types is estimated to be 23  7 kg N hay. This is a rather reliable value because its uncertainty is small and it is in agreement with empirical estimates of critical loads. Critical loads per vegetation type are less reliable because they are not correlated to empirical values, although the ranges of simulated and empirical values usually overlap. At the site level, uncertainty becomes very large and it is not possible to determine critical loads with any practical significance. The uncertainties can only be reduced if more data become available on the abiotic response per species under field conditions, at least to nitrogen availability and soil pH.
23501300|Climate, tree species traits, and soil fertility are key controls on forest productivity. However, in most forest ecosystems, natural and human disturbances, such as wind throw, fire, and harvest, can also exert important and lasting direct and indirect influence over productivity. We used an ecosystem model, PnET-CN, to examine how disturbance type, intensity, and frequency influence net primary production (NPP) across a range of forest types from Minnesota and Wisconsin, USA. We assessed the importance of past disturbances on NPP, net N mineralization, foliar N, and leaf area index at 107 forest stands of differing types (aspen, jack pine, northern hardwood, black spruce) and disturbance history (fire, harvest) by comparing model simulations with observations. The model reasonably predicted differences among forest types in productivity, foliar N, leaf area index, and net N mineralization. Model simulations that included past disturbances minimally improved predictions compared to simulations without disturbance, suggesting the legacy of past disturbances played a minor role in influencing current forest productivity rates. Modeled NPP was more sensitive to the intensity of soil removal during a disturbance than the fraction of stand mortality or wood removal. Increasing crown fire frequency resulted in lower NPP, particularly for conifer forest types with longer leaf life spans and longer recovery times. These findings suggest that, over long time periods, moderate frequency disturbances are a relatively less important control on productivity than climate, soil, and species traits.
25470405|Although it is widely accepted that elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO), nitrogen (N) deposition, and climate change will alter ecosystem productivity and function in the coming decades, the combined effects of these environmental changes may be nonadditive, and their interactions may be altered by disturbances, such as fire. We examined the influence of a summer wildfire on the interactive effects of elevated CO, N deposition, and increased precipitation in a full-factorial experiment conducted in a California annual grassland. In unburned plots, primary production was suppressed under elevated CO. Burning alone did not significantly affect production, but it increased total production in combination with nitrate additions and removed the suppressive effect of elevated CO. Increased production in response to nitrate in burned plots occurred as a result of the enhanced aboveground production of annual grasses and forbs, whereas the removal of the suppressive effect of elevated CO occurred as a result of increased aboveground forb production in burned, CO-treated plots and decreased root production in burned plots under ambient CO. The tissue nitrogen-phosphorus ratio, which was assessed for annual grass shoots, decreased with burning and increased with nitrate addition. Burning removed surface litter from plots, resulting in an increase in maximum daily soil temperatures and a decrease in soil moisture both early and late in the growing season. Measures of vegetation greenness, based on canopy spectral reflectance, showed that plants in burned plots grew rapidly early in the season but senesced early. Overall, these results indicate that fire can alter the effects of elevated CO and N addition on productivity in the short term, possibly by promoting increased phosphorus availability.
3658986| Eddy-covariance and biometeorological methods show significant net annual carbon uptake in an old-growth Douglas-fir forest in southwestern Washington, USA. These results contrast with previous assumptions that old-growth forest ecosystems are in carbon equilibrium. The basis for differences between conventional biomass-based carbon sequestration estimates and the biomete-orologic estimates are discussed. Annual net ecosystem exchange was comparable to younger ecosystems at the same latitude, as quantified in the AmeriFlux program. Net ecosystem carbon uptake was significantly correlated with photosynthetically active radiation and air temperature, as well as soil moisture and precipitation. Optimum ecosystem photosynthesis occurred at relatively cool temperatures (5-10C). Understory and soil carbon exchange always represented a source of carbon to the atmosphere, with a strong seasonal cycle in source strength. Understory and soil carbon exchange showed a Q
27823654|In this paper we analyze a long-term dataset on the recovery from eutrophication of Lake Veluwe (The Netherlands). Clear hysteresis was observed in a number of ecosystem variables: the route to recovery differed significantly from the route that led to loss of clear water. The macrophyte dominated state disappeared in the late 1960s at TP above 0.20 mg l1, whereas its return occurred at less than 0.10 mg TP l. Several regime shifts resulting in the occurrence of three alternative stable states were observed over a period of 30 years. The turbid state showed resistance to change, despite a strong and prompt reduction in Chl-a following reduction of external P-loading. The most important component that determined hysteresis in the return to clear water was not internal P-loading, but a high level of nonalgal light attenuation (through sediment resuspension) maintained by the interaction between wind and benthivorous fish. Although Chara was able to re-colonize the most shallow parts of the lake, recovery stalled and for a number of years clear (above charophyte beds) and turbid (deeper parts of the lake) water co-existed, as a separate alternative state on route to full recovery. Lake-wide clear water was re-established after bream density had been reduced substantially. This allowed a return of zebra mussels to the lake, whose high filtration capacity helped in maintaining clear water. In this study, we were able to identify the main drivers of hysteresis and regime shifts, although formal demonstration of cause and effect was not possible on the basis of field data alone. We argue that resilience of the present clear water state of Lake Veluwe very much depends on sizable populations of a few keystone species, especially Chara (stoneworts) and Dreissena (zebra mussels), and that careful management of these species is equally important as control of nutrients. Lake management should strive to maintain and strengthen resilience of the ecosystem, and this should offer protection against a renewed collapse of the clear state.
43677505|The boreal forest plays a key role in the global carbon (C) cycle, and black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) BSP) forests are the dominant coniferous forest type in the Canadian boreal forest. National-scale forest C of moss-derived organic matter that we hypothesize to be significant in the C budget of black spruce ecosystems. One such model, the Carbon Budget Model of the Canadian Forest Sector (CBM-CFS3), is designed to meet Canada's forest-related greenhouse gas reporting requirements. In this study our goal was to determine if black spruce forest soil C stocks are significantly underestimated by the CBM-CFS3 and if so, to determine if estimates could be improved by adding moss-derived C. We conclude that in black spruce sites, organic layer C is significantly underestimated by CBM-CFS3 compared to sites with all other leading tree species analyzed. We compiled and used published moss net primary productivity rates for upland forest systems, with decomposition rates, in mass-balance calculations to estimate mean moss-derived C in black spruce forests for feather mosses at 64 Mg C ha , and for sphagnum mosses at 103 C Mg ha. These C pools are similar to the CBM-CFS3 mean underestimation of black spruce soil organic layers (63 Mg ha). We conclude that the contribution of mosses is sufficiently large that a moss C pool should be added to national-scale models including the CBM-CFS3, to reduce uncertainties in boreal forest C budget estimation. Feather and sphagnum mosses should be parameterized separately.
3659031|Using empirical data from 466 temperate to arctic lakes covering a total phosphorus (TP) gradient of
3658731|Historical data have increasingly become appreciated for insight into the past conditions of ecosystems. Uses of such data include assessing the extent of ecosystem change; deriving ecological baselines for management, restoration, and modeling; and assessing the importance of past conditions on the composition and function of current systems. One historical data set of this type is the Public Land Survey (PLS) of the United States General Land Office, which contains data on multiple tree species, sizes, and distances recorded at each survey point, located at half-mile (0.8-km) intervals on a 1-mi (1.6 km) grid. This survey method was begun in the 1790s on US federal lands extending westward from Ohio. Thus, the data have the potential of providing a view of much of the US landscape from the mid- 1800s, and they have been used extensively for this purpose. However, historical data sources, such as those describing the species composition of forests, can often be limited in the detail recorded and the reliability of the data, since the information was often not originally recorded for ecological purposes. Forest trees are sometimes recorded ambiguously, using generic or obscure common names. For the PLS data of northern Wisconsin, USA, we developed a method to classify ambiguously identified tree species using logistic regression analysis, using data on trees that were clearly identified to species and a set of independent predictor variables to build the models. The models were first created on partial data sets for each species and then tested for fit against the remaining data. Validations were conducted using repeated, random subsets of the data. Model prediction accuracy ranged from 81% to 96% in differentiating congeneric species among oak, pine, ash, maple, birch, and elm. Major predictor variables were tree size, associated species, landscape classes indicative of soil type, and spatial location within the study region. Results help to clarify ambiguities formerly present in maps of historic ecosystems for the region and can be applied to PLS datasets elsewhere, as well as other sources of ambiguous historical data. Mapping the newly classified data with ecological land units provides additional information on the distribution, abundance, and associations of tree species, as well as their relationships to environmental gradients before the industrial period, and clarifies the identities of species formerly maped only to genus. We offer some caveats on the appropriate use of data derived in this way, as well as describing their potential.
3658900|Human interaction with fire and vegetation occurs at many levels of human population density and cultural development, from subsistence cultures to highly technological societies. The dynamics of these interactions with respect to wildland fire are often difficult to understand and identify at short temporal scales. Dendrochronological fire histories from the Missouri Ozarks, coupled with human population data, offer a quantitative means of examining historic (1680-1990) changes in the anthropogenic fire regime. A temporal analysis of fire scar dates over the last 3 centuries indicates that the percent of sites burned and fire intervals of anthropogenic fires are conditioned by the following four limiting factors: (a) anthropogenic ignition, (b) surface fuel production, (c) fuel fragmentation, and (d) cultural behavior. During an ignition-dependent stage (fewer than
3659038|Observations of declining base saturation in soils and declining calcium (Ca) in streamwater have contributed to concerns that prolonged exposure to acid rain threatens forest health and productivity. We suggest that these changes could be caused, in part, by aging of the forests. To test this possibility, we characterized Ca cycling in previously harvested, variously aged northern hardwood stands over 15-18 years. The Ca content and concentrations in the forest floor and the density of snails, which require Ca for growth, increased in young stands (less than 30 years old) and decreased in older stands (more than 30 years old) over the measurement period. Similarly, the concentrations of Ca in litterfall decreased with stand age, and hydrologic export of Ca from a young stand was higher than that from an old stand. Ecosystem budgets suggest that the supply of Ca from the mineral soil to other parts of the ecosystem is large
25470392|Recent evidence suggests that atmospheric nitrate (NO) deposition can alter soil carbon (C) storage by directly affecting the activity of lignin-degrading soil fungi. In a laboratory experiment, we studied the direct influence of increasing soil NO concentration on microbial C cycling in three different ecosystems: black oak-white oak (BOWO), sugar maple-red oak (SMRO), and sugar maple-bass-wood (SMBW). These ecosystems span a broad range of litter biochemistry and recalcitrance; the BOWO ecosystem contains the highest litter lignin content, SMRO had intermediate lignin content, and SMBW leaf litter has the lowest lignin content. We hypothesized that increasing soil solution NO would reduce lignolytic activity in the BOWO ecosystem, due to a high abundance of white-rot fungi and lignin-rich leaf litter. Due to the low lignin content of litter in the SMBW, we further reasoned that the NO repression of lignolytic activity would be less dramatic due to a lower relative abundance of white-rot basidiomycetes; the response in the SMRO ecosystem should be intermediate. We increased soil solution NO concentrations in a 73-day laboratory incubation and measured microbial respiration and soil solution dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and phenolics concentrations. At the end of the incubation, we measured the activity of -glucosidase, N-acetyl-glucosaminidase, phenol oxidase, and peroxidase, which are extracellular enzymes involved with cellulose and lignin degradation. We quantified the fungal biomass, and we also used fungal ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) to gain insight into fungal community composition. In the BOWO ecosystem, increasing NO significantly decreased oxidative enzyme activities (-30% to -54%) and increased DOC (+32% upper limit) and phenolic (+77% upper limit) concentrations. In the SMRO ecosystem, we observed a significant decrease in phenol oxidase activity (-73% lower limit) and an increase in soluble phenolic concentrations (+57% upper limit) in response to increasing NO in soil solution, but there was no significant change in DOC concentration. In contrast to these patterns, increasing soil solution NO in the SMBW soil resulted in significantly greater phenol oxidase activity (+700% upper limit) and a trend toward lower DOC production (-52% lower limit). Nitrate concentration had no effect on microbial respiration or -glucosidase or N-acetyl-glucosaminidase activities. Fungal abundance and basidiomycete diversity tended to be highest in the BOWO soil and lowest in the SMBW, but neither displayed a consistent response to NO additions. Taken together, our results demonstrate that oxidative enzyme production by microbial communities responds directly to NO deposition, controlling extracellular enzyme activity and DOC flux. The regulation of oxidative enzymes by different microbial communities in response to NO deposition highlights the fact that the composition and function of soil microbial communities directly control ecosystem-level responses to environmental change.
3659051|Human influence is now so pervasive that every ecosystem on Earth is being managed, whether intentionally or inadvertently. It is therefore imperative for scientists and managers to work together so that appropriate management regimes can be put in place wherever possible. However, it is not always clear what is appropriate, and the difficulties that often arise when scientists and managers work together can be even further compounded by the inclusion of lay stakeholders in the decision-making process. The expansion of interdisciplinary undergraduate and graduate programs would help both scientists and managers to deal more effectively with sociological issues and to understand how economic and demographic changes impact on natural resources. In addition, continuing education programs in these areas should be made available to established professionals to help them deal with new challenges. The concept of ecosystem services should be used to communicate the importance of various ecosystem components and processes to a broader audience. Consensus on a management regime can often be achieved through adaptive management. The process by which interdisciplinary collaboration can lead to new insights and research initiatives is exemplified by a resource management study on the island of Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia. As a paradigm of natural resource management, microcosms like this small island community offer a unique opportunity for training and education.
40296368|Wind is known to alter the structure and functioning of forest ecosystems. Because the intensity and frequency of severe wind events are likely to increase, it is important to understand the speciesand substrate-specific effects of these disturbances. We assessed the structure and production among 63 species of trees in an Australian tropical rainforest before and after Cyclone Larry (March 2006). We assessed forest occurring on two different substrates: nutrient-poor schist and relatively nutrientrich basalt. Leaf area reduction and stem breakage were markedly variable among species, but were more evident on basalt soils than schist soils, and were positively correlated with leaf N and P. In the 18-month period following the cyclone, litterfall, stem biomass increment, and ANPP were 44, 20, and 27% of pre-cyclone measurements and did not differ between soils. More severe modification of leaves, branches, and stems on basalt soils, relative to schist soils, suggests that trees/species growing on nutrient-limited soils are less susceptible to high winds. Disturbance regime and resource availability are likely to interact, creating potential plant strategies that increase fitness either by enhanced investments in carbon or enhanced investments in nitrogen and phosphorus.
41413974|Soil crusts influence many soil parameters that affect how water moves into and through the soil, and therefore, critically influence water availability, erosion processes, nutrient fluxes, and vegetation distribution patterns in semiarid ecosystems. Soil crusts are quite sensitive to disturbance, and their alteration can lead to modification of the local hydrological regime, thus affecting general functioning of the ecosystem. The aim of this study was to analyze the influence of different types of soil crusts, physical, and biological in different developmental stages, as well as the impact of their disturbance, on infiltration. This was assessed by means of rainfall simulations conducted in two semiarid ecosystems in southeast Spain characterized by different lithologies, topographies, and soil crust distributions. Two consecutive rainfall simulation experiments (50 mm h rainfall intensity), the first on dry soil and the second on wet soil, were carried out in microplots (0.25 m) containing the most representative soil crust types at each site, each crust type subjected to three disturbance treatments: (a) undisturbed, (b) trampling, and (c) removal. Infiltration in the crusts was higher on coarse-than on fine-textured soils and almost two times greater on dry than on wet soil. Biological soil crusts (BSC) showed higher infiltration rates than physical soil crusts (PSC). Within BSC, infiltration increased as cyanobacterial biomass increased and was the highest in moss crusts. However, latesuccessional crustose and squamulose lichen crusts showed very low infiltration rates. Trampling reduced infiltration rates, especially when soil was wet, whereas crust removal enhanced infiltration. But this increase in infiltration after removing the crust decreased over time as the soil sealed again due to raindrop impact, making runoff rates in the scraped microplots approach those registered in the respective undisturbed crust types. Our results demonstrate that water redistribution in semiarid ecosystems strongly depends on the type of crusts that occupy the interplant spaces and the characteristics of the soils which they overly, as well as the antecedent moisture conditions of the soil. Disturbance of these crust patches results in increased runoff and erosion, which has important consequences on general ecosystem functioning.
40603659|Here we report the long-term (13-year) dynamics of surface pCO and its response to episodic eutrophication and acidification events in two contrasting tropical coastal lakes, one clear-water and the other humic. A short-term nutrient addition experiment was also conducted in mesocosms in the humic lake where in situ eutrophication was moderate. Our objective was to elucidate the response of pCO to interannual changes in key limnological conditions, such as nutrient concentrations and pH. The humic waters showed a median pCO almost ninefold higher across the 13-year study than the clear waters, supporting pCO values about tenfold above atmospheric equilibrium. Eutrophication of the clear-water lake resulted in a decrease in pCO to median values below atmospheric equilibrium, producing a strong sink for atmospheric CO . In contrast, pCO increased by over tenfold in both lakes during the acidification phase, resulting in very large CO emissions to the atmosphere. Experimental nutrient additions in the humic lake showed a strong persistence of high pCO. The extreme variability in pCO observed here might be a characteristic of tropical lakes and may have important consequences for regional carbon budgets.
25053835|We investigated the decomposability of soil organic matter (SOM) along a chronosequence of rainforest sites in Hawaii that form a natural fertility gradient and at two long-term fertilization experiments. To estimate turnover times and pool sizes of organic matter, we used two independent methods: (1) long-term incubations and (2) a three-box soil model constrained by radiocarbon measurements. Turnover times of slow-pool SOM (the intermediate pool between active and passive pools) calculated from incubations ranged from 6 to 20 y in the O horizon and were roughly half as fast in the A horizon. The radiocarbon-based model yielded a similar pattern but slower turnover times. The calculation of the
41505924|Woody vegetation has expanded in coverage over the past century in many places globally, exemplified by pinyon-juniper changes in the Southwestern United States. Extreme drought is one of the few non-management drivers besides fire that might reverse such cover changes, but this has not been well documented. Here, we assess 68 years of tree cover dynamics across an elevation gradient of a pinyon-juniper woodland using aerial photographs (1936 and 1959) and QuickBird imagery (2004). Canopy cover increased 32% from 1936 to the onset of a major drought (2002). The largest relative increase in canopy cover occurred from 1936 to 1959 at the higher elevations, but these gains were eliminated by fires occurring from 1959 to 2002, during which time lower elevations with low canopy cover exhibited the greatest relative increases. The 2002-2004 drought reduced canopy cover by 55%, which eliminated gains in cover that occurred since 1936. Relative tree cover loss was highest at low elevations with low tree cover, but absolute tree cover loss was greater in areas of high tree cover, which increased with elevation. The loss of more than half of the canopy cover during a 2-year drought period was much greater than losses due to fire or possible increases due to historic land use (for example, grazing). These results suggest that regional-scale climatic influences may be more important than land use legacies in controlling tree cover of these and perhaps other semiarid woodlands over longer time scalesnotable given that similar episodes of tree mortality are projected in coming decades with climate change.
23328063|Our understanding of carbon (C) dynamics within savannas is very limited, especially how source/sink dynamics are influenced by the resident biota. Previous measurements of epigeal termite mounds (termitaria), ubiquitous in many savannas, have shown that they are considerable point sources of soil carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), whereas CO 2 measurements collected outside the mounds were generally assumed to be independent of termite activity. However, no measurements were conducted along gradients away from the mounds to confirm this. We quantified daytime soil CO 2 emissions (soil respiration) along gradients from the center to 20 m from the mound edge in Serengeti National Park, and measured soil temperature/moisture, macro-invertebrate abundance, and vegetation height as variables potentially influencing these emissions. Further, we quantified how far into the savanna termitaria impact CO 2 emissions. As in other studies, we found the highest soil CO 2 fluxes at the termitaria-center and considerably lower fluxes in the surrounding savanna. Macro-invertebrate abundance was associated with the differences in emissions measured, whereas the other variables were not. The analysis of spatial autocorrelation revealed significantly lower fluxes between the termitaria edge and up to 9 m from the edge compared to the values measured at the termitaria-center and between 10 and 20 m from the termitaria edge. When extrapolating the emissions across the landscape our results suggest that the lower CO 2 emissions found between the edge and 9 m fully compensate for the high fluxes measured at the termitaria center. Consequently, our findings provide evidence that termitaria might influence the savanna C source-sink dynamics differently than previously thought.
40928238|We studied the effect of tree species on nitrification in five young plantations and an old native beech coppice forest at the Breuil experimental site in central France. The potential net nitrification (PNN) of soil was high in beech, Corsican pine, and Douglas fir plantations (high nitrifying stands denoted H) and low in spruce and Nordmann fir plantations as well as in native forest stands (low nitrifying stands denoted L). We hypothesized that tree species would stimulate or inhibit nitrification in transplanted soil cores within a few years after the cores were transplanted between stands. We first initiated a transplant experiment where soil cores were exchanged between all stands. The PNN remained high in soil cores from H transferred to H and low in soil cores from L transferred to L. The PNN increased considerably after 16 months in soil cores transferred from L to H, whereas the transfer of soil cores from H to L decreased the PNN only slightly after 28 months. In a second transplant experiment, forest floor material was exchanged between the Douglas fir (H) and the native forest (L) stand. Six months later, the forest floor from the native forest had increased the PNN of the Douglas fir soil considerably, whereas the forest floor from Douglas fir did not affect the PNN of the soil in the native forest stand. It was concluded that beech, Corsican pine, and Douglas fir rapidly stimulate soil nitrification by either activation of suppressed nitrifier communities and/or colonization by new nitrifier communities. Conversely, the slow and irregular reduction of nitrification in spruce, Nordmann fir, and native forest was probably due to the low and heterogeneously distributed flux of inhibiting substances per volume of soil. Our experiments suggest that the inhibition of nitrification is not tightly connected to forest floor leachates, but that the forest floor both reflects and maintains the major ongoing processes. In the long term, humus build up and the production of inhibiting substances may completely block the nitrification activity.
40296263|We comment on a recent Ecosystem paper by Odion and Hanson (Ecosystems 9: 1177-1189, 2006), in which the authors claim that high severity fire is rare in the Sierra Nevada under current conditions. Odion and Hanson's results are predicated on BAER soil burn severity maps, which are based primarily on fire effects to soil, not vegetation. Odion and Hanson, and we fear others as well, are misinformed as to the nature of the BAER severity mapping process, and proper applications of BAER soil burn severity maps. By comparing the BAER soil burn severity maps to a true vegetation burn severity measure (RdNBR) calibrated by field data, we show that the area in the high soil burn severity class for the three fires analyzed by Odion and Hanson is substantially less than the area of standreplacing fire, and that BAER mapsespecially hand-derived maps such as those from two of the three firesalso greatly underestimate the heterogeneity in vegetation burn severity on burned landscapes. We also show that, contrary to Odion and Hanson's claims, Fire Return Interval Departure (FRID) is strongly correlated with fire severity in conifer stands within the perimeter of the McNally Fire.
23253694|Current knowledge of Africa's carbon (C) pools is limited despite its importance in the global C budget. To increase the understanding of C stocks in African woodlands, we asked how C stocks in soil and vegetation vary across a miombo woodland landscape and to what degree and at what scales are these stocks linked? We sampled along a 5-km transect using a cyclic sampling scheme to allow geostatistical analyses. Soil C stocks in the top 5 cm (12.1  0.6 Mg C ha -1 ( SE)) and 30 cm depths (40.1  2.5 Mg C ha -1 ) varied significantly at scales of a few meters (autocorrelation distance 14 m in 05-cm and 26 m in 030-cm interval), and aboveground (AG) woody C stocks (20.7  1.8 Mg C ha -1 ) varied significantly at kilometer scales (1,426 m). Soil textural distributions were linked to topography (r 2 = 0.54) as were large-tree AG C stocks (r 2 = 0.70). AG C stocks were constrained to an upper boundary by soil texture with greater AG C being associated with coarser textured soils. Vegetation and soil C stocks were coupled in the landscape in the top 5 cm of soil (r 2 = 0.24) but not with deeper soil C stocks, which were coupled to soil clay content (r 2 = 0.38). This study is one of the most complete transect studies in an African miombo woodland, and suggests that C stock distributions are strongly linked to topography and soil texture. To optimize sampling strategies for C stock assessments in miombo, soil C should be sampled at more than 26 m apart, and AG C should be sampled at more than 1,426 m apart in plots larger than 0.5 ha.
25622889|Texture is an important influence on organic matter (SOM) dynamics in upland soils but little is known about its role in riverine soils. We hypothesized that texture might be especially important to SOM accumulation in young alluvial soils. We combined the soil component of the CENTURY ecosystem model, which uses sand, silt, and clay concentration as primary variables, with a simple simulation model of fluvial deposition, and forest production to predict changes in soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) during primary succession on floodplains and terraces of the Queets River, Washington. Simulated soil C accumulated to a plateau of about 4000 g m at 110 years, closely matching observed patterns in an empirical chronosequence. Although direct fluvial OM deposition had only a small and short-lived influence on soil C, fluvial silt and clay deposition were an important influence on equilibrium C. The model underestimated soil N by about 35%, which appears to be due to failure of the model to account for N enrichment of an OM pool after its initial formation. These results suggest that basic influences on SOM retention in these young soils are not functionally different than those that apply to upland soils, but occur within highly dynamic physical contexts. Overbank deposition of silt and clay establishes a basic capacity for SOM retention. SOM, in turn, facilitates N retention. In this way, silt and clay are instrumental in propagating N forward from N-fixing red alder (Alnus rubra) stands to mature conifer forests that are frequently N-limited.
3658998|Floodplain forests are generally areas of high plant diversity compared with upland forests. Higher environmental heterogeneity, especially variation in belowground properties may help explain this high diversity. However, there is little information available on the spatial scale and pattern of belowground resources in floodplain forests. Geostatistics and coefficient of variation (CV) were used to describe the spatial variability of 20 soil properties ranging from essential plant nutrients, such as
40296322|In the highlands of Western Kenya, we investigated the reversibility of soil productivity decline with increasing length of continuous maize cultivation over 100 years (corresponding to decreasing soil organic carbon (SOC) and nutrient contents) using organic matter additions of differing quality and stability as a function of soil texture and inorganic nitrogen (N) additions. The ability of additions of labile organic matter (green and animal manure) to improve productivity primarily by enhanced nutrient availability was contrasted with the ability of stable organic matter (biochar and sawdust) to improve productivity by enhancing SOC. Maize productivity declined by 66% during the first 35 years of continuous cropping after forest clearing. Productivity remained at a low level of 3.0 t grain ha across the chronosequence stretching up to 105 years of continuous cultivation despite full N-phosphorus (P)-potassium (K) fertilization (120-100-100 kg ha). Application of organic resources reversed the productivity decline by increasing yields by 57-167%, whereby responses to nutrient-rich green manure were 110% greater than those from nutrient-poor sawdust. Productivity at the most degraded sites (80-105 years since forest clearing) increased in response to green manure to a greater extent than the yields at the least degraded sites (5 years since forest clearing), both with full N-P-K fertilization. Biochar additions at the most degraded sites doubled maize yield (equaling responses to green manure additions in some instances) that were not fully explained by nutrient availability, suggesting improvement of factors other than plant nutrition. There was no detectable influence of texture (soils with either 1114 or 4549% clay) when low quality organic matter was applied (sawdust, biochar), whereas productivity was 8, 15, and 39% greater (P < 0.05) on sandier than heavier textured soils with high quality organic matter (green and animal manure) or only inorganic nutrient additions, respectively. Across the entire degradation range, organic matter additions decreased the need for additional inorganic fertilizer N irrespective of the quality of the organic matter. For low quality organic resources (biochar and sawdust), crop yields were increasingly responsive to inorganic N fertilization with increasing soil degradation. On the other hand, fertilizer N additions did not improve soil productivity when high quality organic inputs were applied. Even with the tested full N-P-K fertilization, adding organic matter to soil was required for restoring soil productivity and most effective in the most degraded sites through both nutrient delivery (with green manure) and improvement of SOC (with biochar).
41507781|Modification of fire regimes in tropical savannas can have significant impacts on the global carbon (C) cycle, and therefore, on the climate system. In Australian tropical savannas, there has been recent, large-scale implementation of fire management that aims to decrease Kyoto-compliant non-CO greenhouse gas emissions by reducing late dry season intense fires through strategic early dry season burning. However, there is no accounting for changes to soil C stocks resulting from changes to savanna fire management, although impacts on these pools may be considerable. We present a hypothesis that soil C storage is greatest under low intensity fires with an intermediate fire return interval. Simulations using the CENTURY Soil Organic Matter Model confirmed this hypothesis with greatest soil C storage under a fire regime of one low intensity fire every 5 years. Key areas of uncertainty for CENTURY model simulations include fine root dynamics, charcoal production and nitrogen (N) cycling, and better understanding of these processes could improve model predictions. Soil C stocks measured in the field after 5 years of annual, 3 year and unburned fire treatments were not significantly different (range 41-58 t ha), but further CENTURY modelling suggests that changes in fire management will take up to 100 years to have a detectable impact (+4 t ha) on soil C stocks. However, implementation of fire management that reduces fire frequency and intensity within the large area of intact savanna landscapes in northern Australia could result in emissions savings of 0.17 t CO-e ha y, four times greater than reductions of non-CO emissions.
40603633|The STANDCARB 2.0 model was used to examine the effects of partial harvest of trees within stands on forest-related carbon (C) stores in a typical Pacific Northwest Pseudotsuga/Tsuga forest. For harvest rotation intervals of 20 to 250 years the effect of completely dispersed (that is, a checkerboard) versus completely aggregated cutting patterns (that is, single blocks) was compared. The simulations indicated that forests with frequent, but partial removal of live trees can store as much as those with complete tree harvest on less frequent intervals. Stores in forest products generally declined as the fraction of live trees harvested declined and as the interval between harvests increased. Although the proportion of total system stores in forest products increased as the frequency of harvests and proportion of trees removed increased, this did not offset the reduction in forest stores these treatments caused.Spatial arrangement of harvest influenced tree species composition profoundly; however, the effects of aggregated versus dispersed cutting patterns on stores were relatively small compared to the other treatments. This study indicates that there are multiple methods to increase stores in the forest sector including either increasing the time between harvests or reducing the fraction of trees harvested during each harvest.
3658853|Maps of potential habitat distribution are needed for regional population models of rare species, but reliable information from ground surveys is not always available. Existing data sources from disciplines other than ecological research often are underused. In this article, we discuss the development of a geographic information system (GIS) model that predicts potential habitats from ecosystem information contained in the US soil classification and soil survey. Soil classification and survey were used in the GIS model in an earlier study on the US Department of Energy's Oak Ridge Reservation, Tennessee, to predict threatened calcareous habitats. The model predicts potential habitats from the combination of (a) soil taxon as an indication of long-term ecosystem processes; (b) geologic parent material; and (c) slope class. Satellite imagery was added to indicate current successional state. In this study, we tested the model's predictive ability by using data from the Cedar Creek Slope Glades Preserve at the 44,000-ha US Department of Defense Fort Knox Military Reservation, Kentucky. We then used the model to predict occurrences of potential suitable habitat on the remainder of the Fort Knox reservation, including heavily impacted ordnance and tank training areas that are unsafe for public access. The soil component of the model also was applied to a
25053893|Deliberate progress towards the goal of long-term sustainability depends on understanding the dynamics of linked social and ecological systems. The concept of social-ecological resilience holds promise for interdisciplinary syntheses. Resilience is a multifaceted concept that as yet has not been directly operationalized, particularly in systems for which our ignorance is such that detailed, parameter-rich simulation models are difficult to develop. We present an exploratory framework as a step towards the operationalization of resilience for empirical studies. We equate resilience with the ability of a system to maintain its identity, where system identity is defined as a property of key components and relationships (networks) and their continuity through space and time. Innovation and memory are also fundamental to understanding identity and resilience. By parsing our systems into the elements that we subjectively consider essential to identity, we obtain a small set of specific focal variables that reflect changes in identity. By assessing the potential for changes in identity under specified drivers and perturbations, in combination with a scenario-based approach to considering alternative futures, we obtain a surrogate measure of the current resilience of our study system as the likelihood of a change in system identity under clearly specified conditions, assumptions, drivers and perturbations. Although the details of individual case studies differ, the concept of identity provides a level of generality that can be used to compare measure of resilience across cases. Our approach will also yield insights into the mechanisms of change and the potential consequences of different policy and management decisions, providing a level of decision support for each case study area.
40792957|Differences in litter decomposition patterns among mesic, semiarid, and arid grassland ecosystems cannot be accurately explained by variation in temperature, moisture, and litter chemistry alone. We hypothesized that ultraviolet (UV) radiation enhances decomposition in grassland ecosystems via photodegradation, more so in arid compared to mesic ecosystems, and in litter that is more recalcitrant to microbial decomposition (with high compared to low lignin concentrations). In a 2-year field study, we manipulated the amount of UV radiation reaching the litter layer at three grassland sites in Minnesota, Colorado, and New Mexico, USA, that represented mesic, semiarid, and arid grassland ecosystems, respectively. Two common grass leaf litter types of contrasting lignin: N were placed at each site under screens that either passed all solar radiation wavelengths or passed all but UV wavelengths. Decomposition was generally faster when litter was exposed to UV radiation across all three sites. In contrast to our hypothesis, the contribution of photodegradation in the decomposition process was not consistently greater at the more arid sites or for litter with higher lignin content. Additionally, at the most arid site, exposure to UV radiation could not explain decomposition rates that were faster than expected given climate constraints or lack of N immobilization by decomposing litter. Although photodegradation plays an important role in the decomposition process in a wider range of grassland sites than previously documented, it does not fully explain the differences in decomposition rates among grassland ecosystems of contrasting aridity.
3658843|Management and restoration of vegetation patterns in ecosystems depends on an understanding of allogenic environmental factors that organize species assemblages and autogenic processes linked to assemblages. However, our ability to make strong inferences about vegetation-environment linkages in field studies is often limited due to correlations among environmental variables, spatial autocorrelation, and scale dependency of observations. This is particularly true in large, heterogeneous ecosystems such as the Everglades. Here, an extensive canal-and-levee system has modified historical fire regimes and hydropatterns while contributing large inputs of surface-water phosphorus (P), nitrogen (N) and cations such as sodium (Na). Some of these anthropogenic influences have been implicated as factors leading to the shift of sawgrass (Cladium jamaicense Crantz) and slough communities to an assemblage of weedy species such as cattail (Typha domingensis Pers.). To untangle the independent effect of multiple variables, we used a spatially explicit, multivariate approach to identify linkages among spatial patterns, environmental factors, and vegetation composition along a 10-km gradient of anthropogenic influence in the Everglades, an area immediately downstream from canal inflow structures. Clusters of plots were stratified among three zones (Impacted, Transition, and Reference), a design that allowed us to contrast vegetation-environment linkages and spatial patterns at multiple scales and degrees of ecosystem alteration. Along the 10-km gradient, partial Mantel tests showed that nutrients (phosphorus, nitrogen, and potassium) and hydropattern (frequency of dryness) were independently linked to patterns in fine-scale vegetation composition, but phosphorus was the only environmental variable linked to patterns of coarse-scale composition. Regardless of scale, the effect of distance from canal inflows accounted for variation in vegetation that could not be explained by other variables. A significant residual effect of spatial proximity among sampling locations also was detected and was highly suggestive of dispersal or other spatial determinants of vegetation pattern. However, this pure spatial effect was significantly stronger in the Transition and Impacted zones than in the Reference zone-fine-scale environmental variables explained all of the spatial structure in vegetation in the Reference zone. A further examination of spatial patterns in vegetation by using Mantel correlograms revealed significant heterogeneity at fine, local scales in the Reference zone, but this pattern progressively degraded toward homogeneity among closely neighboring locations in the Impacted zone. However, the fine-scale vegetation pattern in the Reference zone was hierarchically nested at a broader scale and yielded a similar coarse pattern across the landscape, whereas the coarse pattern in the Transition and Impacted zones was relatively heterogeneous and fragmented. Collectively, these results indicate that allogenic spatial and environmental factors related to the canal system have disrupted the coupling between pattern and process by altering fine-scale vegetation-environment linkages and spatial patterns characteristic of the natural Everglades ecosystem.
40603638|Numerous studies have demonstrated alternative regimes in shallow lake ecosystems around the world, with one state dominated by submerged macrophytes and the other by phytoplankton.However, the stability of each regime, and thresholds at which lakes shift to the alternative regime, are poorly known. We used a cross-sectional analysis of 72 shallow lakes located in prairie and parkland areas of Minnesota, USA, during 2005 and 2006 to assess the occurrence of alternative regimes and shifts between them. Cluster analysis revealed two distinct groups of lakes characterized not only by different macrophyte abundance and chlorophyll a levels but also by different total phosphorus-chlorophyll a relationships. Thirtynine lakes were macrophyte-and 23 lakes phytoplankton-dominated in both years, whereas 10 sites shifted sharply between those regimes. We failed to detect a universal shifting threshold in terms of chlorophyll a or total phosphorus. However, 95% of the lakes with chlorophyll a concentrations less than 22 g l were in a clearwater regime, whereas 95% of the lakes with chlorophyll a higher than 31g l were in a turbid regime. Total phosphorus less than 62 g l was an accurate predictor of lakes in a stable clearwater regime, whereas a large change in biomass of planktivores and benthivores between years was the only variable weakly related to regime shifts.Our results support the theoretical prediction that regime thresholds vary among lakes. We recommend that lake managers focus on improving resilience of clear regimes in shallow lakes by reducing nutrient loading, rather than attempting to identify and manage complex triggers of regime shifts.
23325682|Mediterranean semi-arid forest ecosystems are especially sensitive to external forcing. An understanding of the relationship between forest carbon (C) stock, and environmental conditions and forest structure enable prediction of the impacts of climate change on C stocks and help to define management strategies that maximize the value of forests for C mitigation. Based on the national forest inventory of Spain (19972008 with 70,912 plots), we estimated the forest C stock and spatial variability in Peninsular Spain and, we determined the extent to which the observed patterns of stand C stock can be explained by structural and species richness, climate and disturbances. Spain has an average stand C stock of 45.1 Mg C/ha. Total C stock in living biomass is 621 Tg C (7.8% of the C stock of European forests). The statistical models show that structural richness, which is driven by past land use and life forest history including age, development stage, management activities, and disturbance regime, is the main predictor of stand tree C stock with larger C stocks in structurally richer stands. Richness of broadleaf species has a positive effect on both conifer and broadleaf forests, whereas richness of conifer species shows no significant or even a negative effect on C stock. Climate variables have mainly an indirect effect through structural richness but a smaller direct predictive ability when all predictors are considered. To achieve a greater standing C stock, our results suggest promoting high structural richness by managing for uneven-aged stands and favoring broadleaf over conifer species.
41507786|Predicting future impacts of anthropogenic change on tropical forests requires a clear understanding of nutrient constraints on productivity. We compared experimental fertilization and litter manipulation treatments in an old-growth lowland tropical forest to distinguish between the effects of inorganic nutrient amendments and changes in nutrient cycling via litterfall. We measured the changes in soil and litter nutrient pools, litterfall, and fine root biomass in plots fertilized with nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), or potassium (K), and in litter addition and litter removal treatments during 7 years. Soil inorganic N and litter N increased in double-litter plots but not in N-fertilized plots. Conversely, litter P and soil pools of P and increased in fertilized plots but not in the double-litter plots. Soil and litter pools of N and K decreased in the no-litter plots. Changes in litterfall with added nutrients or litter were only marginally significant, but fine root biomass decreased with both the litter and the K addition. Differences between the two experiments are mostly attributable to the coupled cycling of carbon and nutrients in litter. Increased nutrient inputs in litter may improve plant uptake of some nutrients compared to fertilization with similar amounts. The litter layer also appears to play a key role in nutrient retention. We discuss our findings in the context of possible impacts of anthropogenic change on tropical forests.
3659011|We investigated the effects on the reservoir food web of a new temperature control device (TCD) on the dam at Shasta Lake, California. We followed a linked modeling approach that used a specialized reservoir water quality model to forecast operation-induced changes in phytoplankton production. A food web-energy transfer model was also applied to propagate predicted changes in phytoplankton up through the food web to the predators and sport fishes of interest. The food web-energy transfer model employed a 10% trophic transfer efficiency through a food web that was mapped using carbon and nitrogen stable isotope analysis. Stable isotope analysis provided an efficient and comprehensive means of estimating the structure of the reservoir's food web with minimal sampling and background data. We used an optimization procedure to estimate the diet proportions of all food web components simultaneously from their isotopic signatures. Some consumers were estimated to be much more sensitive than others to perturbations to phytoplankton supply. The linked modeling approach demonstrated that interdisciplinary efforts enhance the value of information obtained from studies of managed ecosystems. The approach exploited the strengths of engineering and ecological modeling methods to address concerns that neither of the models could have addressed alone: (a) the water quality model could not have addressed quantitatively the possible impacts to fish, and (b) the food web model could not have examined how phytoplankton availability might change due to reservoir operations.
3659024|The study of forest landscape change requires an understanding of the complex interactions of both spatial and temporal factors. Traditionally, forest gap models have been used to simulate change on small and independent plots. While gap models are useful in examining forest ecological dynamics across temporal scales, large, spatial processes, such as seed dispersal cannot be realistically simulated across large landscapes. To simulate seed dispersal, spatially explicit landscape models that track individual species distribution are needed. We used such a model, LANDIS, to illustrate the implications of seed dispersal for simulating forest landscape change. On an artificial open landscape with a uniform environment, circular-shaped tree species establishment patterns resulted from the simulations, with areas near seed sources more densely covered than areas further from seed sources. Because LANDIS simulates at 10-y time steps, this pattern reflects an integration of various possible dispersal shapes and establishment that are caused by the annual variations in climate and other environmental variables. On real landscapes, these patterns driven only by species dispersal radii are obscured by other factors, such as species competition, disturbance, and landscape structure. To further demonstrate the effects of seed dispersal, we chose a fairly disturbed and fragmented forest landscape (approximately 500,000 ha) in northern Wisconsin. We compared the simulation results of a map with tree species (seed source locations) realistically parameterized (the real scenario) against a randomly parameterized species map (the random scenario). Differences in the initial seed source distribution lead to different simulation results of species abundance with species abundance starting at identical levels under the two scenarios. This is particularly true for the first half of the model run (0-250 y). Under the random scenario, infrequently occurring and shade tolerant species tend to be overestimated, while midabundant and midshade tolerant species tend to be underestimated. The over- and underestimation of species abundance diminish when examining longterm (500 y) landscape dynamics, because stochastic factors, such as fire, tend to make the landscapes under both scenarios converge. However, differences in spatial patterns, and especially species age-cohort distributions, can persist under the two scenarios for several hundred years.
25470361|Downstream from metropolitan Paris (France), a large amount of ammonium is discharged into the Seine River by the effluents of the wastewater treatment plant at Achres. To assess the extent of nitrification and denitrification in the water column, concentrations and isotopic compositions of ammonium (N-NH) and nitrate (N-NO, O-NO) were measured during summer low-flow conditions along the lower Seine and its estuary. The results indicated that most of the ammonium released from the wastewater treatment plant is nitrified in the lower Seine River and its upper estuary, but there was no evidence for water-column denitrification. In the lower part of the estuary, however, concentration and isotopic data for nitrate were not consistent with simple mixing between riverine and marine nitrate. A significant departure of the nitrate isotopic composition from what would be expected from simple mixing of freshwater and marine nitrates suggested coupled nitrification and denitrification in the water, in spite of the apparent conservative behavior of nitrate. Denitrification rates of approximately 0.02 mg N/L/h were estimated for this part of the estuary.
40603621|Understanding historical patterns of soil phosphorus (P) accumulation is critical to management of water quality across agricultural landscapes. To address the effects of long-term agricultural  management on soil P accumulation in the Saint Lawrence River sub-basin (574,000 km), we calculated cropland P budgets at decadal intervals from 1901 to 2001 for the sub-basin and its tributary watersheds. Agricultural census data were used to estimate P inputs in the form of fertilizer and manure, and outputs (P removed in harvested crops). The resulting balances indicate the potential magnitude of P accumulation in cropland soils. Cropland P surpluses occurred in the sub-basin in each decade of the past century, with the rate of accumulation increasing after 1951 due to more widespread use of P fertilizers and manure. The largest annual P surplus occurred in 1981 (42,000 Mg y), followed by a decline in the rate of accumulation to almost half that level by 2001 (24,850 Mg y) as a result of improved management of agricultural P. Comparison of the cumulative P surpluses estimated for the entire 20th century with measured soil P data indicates a strong linear relationship between these watershed P budgets and the average soil P content across the sub-basin (R = 0.712, P < 0.0001). These results support the view that historical land management can have important ecological legacies.
3658794|We present a mathematical model of the growth of coral subject to unidirectional ocean currents using concepts of porous-media flow and nonlinear dynamics in chemical systems. Linear stability analysis of the system of equations predicts that the growth of solid (coral) structures will be aligned perpendicular to flow, propagating against flow direction. Length scales of spacing between structures are selected based on chemical reaction and flow rates. In the fully nonlinear system, autocatalysis in the chemical reaction accelerates growth. Numerical analysis reveals that the nonlinear growth creates sharp fronts of high solid fraction that, as predicted by the linear stability, advance against the predominating flow direction. The findings of regularly spaced growth areas oriented perpendicular to flow are qualitatively supported on both a colonial and a regional reef scale.
3658670|Scaling issues are complex, yet understanding issues such as scale dependencies in ecological patterns and processes is usually critical if we are to make sense of ecological data and if we want to predict how land management options, for example, are constrained by scale. In this article, we develop the beginnings of a way to approach the complexity of scaling issues. Our approach is rooted in scaling functions, which integrate the scale dependency of patterns and processes in landscapes with the ways that organisms scale their responses to these patterns and processes. We propose that such functions may have sufficient generality that we can develop scaling rules-statements that link scale with consequences for certain phenomena in certain systems. As an example, we propose that in savanna ecosystems, there is a consistent relationship between the size of vegetation patches in the landscape and the degree to which critical resources, such as soil nutrients or water, become concentrated in these patches. In this case, the features of the scaling functions that underlie this rule have to do with physical processes, such as surface water flow and material redistribution, and the ways that patches of plants physically "capture" such runoff and convert it into plant biomass, thereby concentrating resources and increasing patch size. To be operationally useful, such scaling rules must be expressed in ways that can generate predictions. We developed a scaling equation that can be used to evaluate the potential impacts of different disturbances on vegetation patches and on how soils and their nutrients are conserved within Australian savanna landscapes. We illustrate that for a 10- km
43677534|A critical challenge for ecologists is to understand the functional significance of habitat heterogeneity and connectivity for mobile animals. Here, we explore how a thermo-regulating fish responds to annual variation in the spatial patterning of thermal and trophic resources. In a third-order stream in coastal Alaska, juvenile coho salmon forage on sockeye salmon eggs at night in cold water and then move to warmer water to increase their digestive capacity. We mapped the spatial distributions of water temperature, juvenile coho salmon, and spawning sockeye salmon across a 5-year period during which summer discharge varied by greater than fivefold. In low flow years, warm water (9-12C) was only available in thalweg (that is, main-channel) habitat at least approximately 400 m upstream of the cooler habitat (3-7C) where sockeye salmon spawned. In high flow years, the entire stream thalweg was isothermal at 7-8C, but inundated off-channel areas generated warm habitats (9-12C) laterally adjacent to the downstream regions where sockeye salmon spawned. The daytime spatial distribution of juvenile coho salmon shifted from headwater thalweg habitats in low flow years, to downstream off-channel habitats in high flow years. In all years, the majority of juvenile coho salmon sampled during the daytime were found in warm habitat units without sockeye salmon present, yet they exhibited diet contents comprised virtually entirely of sock-eye salmon eggs. Thus, thermoregulatory movements by coho salmon were able to track an annually shifting mosaic of water temperature. Our results demonstrate how the spatial habitat heterogeneity and connectivity of intact floodplains can in turn buffer aquatic organisms from high levels of temporal variation in habitat conditions and resource abundance.
23253687|The expansion of shrubs into tundra areas is a key terrestrial change underway in the Arctic in response to elevated temperatures during the twentieth century. Repeat photography permits a glimpse into greening satellite pixels, and it shows that, since 1950, some shrub patches have increased rapidly (hereafter expanding), while others have increased little or not at all (hereafter stable). We characterized and compared adjacent expanding and stable shrub patches across Arctic Alaska by sampling a wide range of physical and chemical soil and vegetation properties, including shrub growth rings. Expanding patches of Alnus viridis ssp. fruticosa (Siberian alder) contained shrub stems with thicker growth rings than in stable patches. Alder growth in expanding patches also showed strong correlation with spring and summer warming, whereas alder growth in stable patches showed little correlation with temperature. Expanding patches had different vegetation composition, deeper thaw depth, higher mean annual ground temperature, higher mean growing season temperature, lower soil moisture, less carbon in mineral soil, and lower C:N values in soils and shrub leaves. Expanding patcheshigher resource environmentswere associated with floodplains, stream corridors, and outcrops. Stable patcheslower resource environmentswere associated with poorly drained tussock tundra. Collectively, we interpret these differences as implying that preexisting soil conditions predispose parts of the landscape to a rapid response to climate change, and we therefore expect shrub expansion to continue penetrating the landscape via dendritic floodplains, streams, and scattered rock outcrops.
23328056|Treeline advance alters albedo and carbon storage and is an important feedback mechanism to the global climate system. Establishment of trees north of the treeline requires favorable climate, suitable microsites, and viable seeds. Here we studied the influence of climate and microsite conditions on tree and seedling growth at four transects from forest through woodland to tundra in NW Russia, and tested the viability of seeds from the region. General growth patterns and establishment periods of the treeline species Picea obovata are similar across the study sites suggesting a regional driver (for example, climate). Individuals established as early as the 1640s, but mainly between 1850 and 1880, and during a major and continental scale establishment wave in the 1950s and 1960s. No establishment occurred after 1982. Older trees mainly showed significant and stable positive relationships to growing year summer temperatures and significant stable negative correlations to previous year summer temperatures in nearly all plots. Trees from the last establishment wave showed more mixed responses, but current year summer temperature positively affected growth. Active layer depth was similar in all plots with trees but decreased sharply in treeless tundra. A major role for the lack of recent establishment seems to be very low seed viability, possibly combined with early strong fall frosts, which might have severely limited successful recruitment in the last decades of the twentieth century. For a successful establishment of P. obovata in tundra areas of NW Russia, permafrost degradation and (generally) warmer winters might be a prerequisite.
3658626|Ecosystem nutrient use efficiency-the ratio of net primary productivity to soil nutrient supply-is an integrative measure of ecosystem functioning. High productivity and nutrient retention in natural systems are frequently attributed to high species diversity, even though some single-species systems can be highly productive and effective at resource capture. We investigated the effects of both individual species and life-form diversity on ecosystem nutrient use efficiency using model tropical ecosystems comprised of monocultures of three tree species and polycultures in which each of the tree species was coplanted with species of two additional life forms. Tree species significantly influenced nutrient use efficiency by whole ecosystems in monocultures; however, in polycultures, the additional life forms interacted with the influence exerted by the dominant tree. Furthermore, the presence of the additional life forms significantly increased nutrient uptake and uptake efficiency, but in only two of the three systems and 2 of the 4 years of the study period. These results indicate that the effect of lifeform diversity on ecosystem functioning is not constant and that there may be temporal shifts in the influence exerted by different components of the community. Furthermore, although species (and life forms) exerted considerable influence on ecosystem nutrient use efficiency, this efficiency was most closely related to soil nutrient availability. These findings demonstrate that ecosystem nutrient use efficiency is an outcome not only of the characteristics of the species or life forms that comprise the system but also of factors that affect soil nutrient supply. The results argue against the simple upward scaling of nutrient use efficiency from leaves and plants to ecosystems.
41505862|Soil redox plays a key role in regulating biogeochemical transformations in terrestrial ecosystems, but the temporal and spatial patterns in redox and associated controls within and across ecosystems are poorly understood. Upland humid tropical forest soils may be particularly prone to fluctuating redox as abundant rainfall limits oxygen (O) diffusion through finely textured soils and high biological activity enhances O consumption. We used soil equilibration chambers equipped with automated sensors to determine the temporal variability in soil oxygen concentrations in two humid tropical forests with different climate regimes. We also measured soil trace gases (CO, NO, and CH) as indices of redox-sensitive biogeochemistry. On average, the upper elevation cloud forest had significantly lower O concentrations (3.0  0.8%) compared to the lower elevation wet tropical forest (7.9  1.1%). Soil O was dynamic, especially in the wet tropical forest, where concentrations changed as much as 10% in a single day. The periodicity in the O time series at this site was strongest at 16 day intervals and was associated with the hourly precipitation. Greenhouse gas concentrations differed significantly between sites, but the relationships with soil O were consistent: O was negatively related to both CO and CH and positively related to NO. These results are among the first to quantify the temporal and spatial scale of variability in soil redox in humid tropical forests, and show that the timing of precipitation plays a strong role in biogeochemical cycling on the scale of hours to weeks.
43677504|Most studies of land change have focused on patterns, rates, and drivers of deforestation, but much less is known about the dynamics associated with agricultural abandonment and ecosystem recovery. Furthermore, most studies are conducted at a single spatial scale, and few have included variables related with internal socio-political conflicts. Here we evaluated the effect of environmental, demographic, and socio-economic variables on woody cover change in Colombia between 2001 and 2010 at the country, biome, and ecoregion scales. We also incorporated factors that reflect the unique history of Colombia such as the presence of illegalarmed groups and forced human displacement. Environmental variables explained the patterns of deforestation and forest regrowth at all scales because they can restrict or encourage different land uses across multiple spatial scales. Demographic variables were important at the biome and ecoregion scales and appear to be a consequence of the armed conflict, particularly through forced human displacement (for example, rural-urban migration), which in some areas has resulted in forest regrowth. In other areas, the impact of illegal armed groups has reduced forest cover, particularly in areas rich in gold and lands appropriate for cattle grazing. This multi-scale and multivariate approach provides a new insight into the complex relationship between woody cover change and land abandonment triggered mainly by armed conflict.
3658985| Ground-based measurements of stores, growth, mortality, litterfall, respiration, and decomposition were conducted in an old-growth forest at Wind River Experimental Forest, Washington, USA. These measurements were used to estimate gross primary production (GPP) and net primary production (NPP); autotrophic respiration
3658931|Fish communities in prairie wetlands are extremely dynamic. Due to complete winterkills and periodic colonization, individual basins alternate between supporting a fish population and being fishless. Here we assess the ecological consequences of colonization and subsequent extinction of a fathead minnow population in a prairie wetland. We used a BACI-type approach (before-after control impact) in which data from the colonized wetland were paired with data from a similar fishless site first when both wetlands were fishless (1996), then when the minnow population reached moderate densities in the colonized site (1998), and then again when the colonized site became fishless after treatment with rotenone (1999). Fish colonization resulted in significant increases in turbidity, total phosphorus, and chlorophyll a in the water column; it also caused significant decreases in the abundance of aquatic insects and large cladocerans. Elimination of the minnow population largely reversed the effects of minnow colonization. Our results indicate that characteristics of prairie wetlands can vary as they alternate between supporting fathead minnow populations and being fishless and that ecological characteristics may change rapidly in response to minnow colonization or elimination.
25622899|In the Florida Everglades, tree islands are conspicuous heterogeneous elements in the herbaceous wetland landscape. We characterized the biogeochemical role of a seasonally flooded tree island during wet season inundation, specifically examining hydrologically mediated flows of nitrogen (N) and N retention by the tree island. We estimated ecosystem N standing stocks and fluxes, soil and litter N transformation rates, and hydrologic fluxes of N to quantify the net ecosystem N mass flux. Results showed that hydrologic sources of N were dominated by surface water loads of nitrate (NO) and ammonium (NH). Nitrate immobilization by soils and surficial leaf litter was an important sink for surface water dissolved inorganic N (DIN). We estimated that the net annual DIN retention by a seasonally flooded tree island was 20.5  5.0 g m during wet season inundation. Based on the estimated tree island surface water DIN loading rate, a seasonally flooded tree island retained 76% of imported DIN. As such, seasonally flooded tree islands have the potential to retain 55% of DIN entering the marsh landscape via upstream canal overland flow in the wet season. By increasing reactive surface area and DOC availability, we suggest that tree islands promote convergence of elements that enhance DIN retention. Tree islands of this region are thus important components of landscape-scale restoration efforts that seek to reduce sources of anthropogenic DIN to downstream estuaries.
25470390|Detailed information from the Swedish National Forest Inventory was used to simulate the carbon balance for Sweden by the process-based model Biome-BGC. A few shortcomings of the model were identified and solutions to those are proposed and also used in the simulations. The model was calibrated against CO flux data from 3 forests in central Sweden and then applied to the whole country divided into 30 districts and 4 age classes. Gross primary production (GPP) ranged over districts and age classes from 0.20 to 1.71 kg C m y and net ecosystem production (NEP) ranged from -0.01 to 0.44. The 10- to 30-year age class was the strongest carbon sink because of its relatively low respiration rates. When the simulation results were scaled up to the whole country, GPP and NEP were 175 and 29 Mton C y, respectively, for the 22.7 Mha of forests in Sweden. A climate change scenario was simulated by assuming a 4C increase in temperature and a doubling of the CO concentration; GPP and NEP then increased to 253 and 48 Mton C y, respectively. A sensitivity analysis showed that at present CO concentrations NEP would peak at an increase of 5C for the mean annual temperature. At higher CO levels NEP showed a logarithmic increase.
3658627|We described, classified, and mapped the functional heterogeneity of temperate South America using the seasonal dynamics of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) from NOAA/AVHRR satellites for a 10-year period. From the seasonal curves of NDVI, we calculated (a) the annual integral (NDVI-1), used as an estimate of the fraction of photosynthetic active radiation absorbed by the canopy and hence of primary production, (b) the relative annual range of NDVI (RREL), and (c) the date of maximum NDVI (MMAX), both of which were used to capture the seasonality of primary production. NDVI-1 decreased gradually from the northeastern part of the study region (southern Brazil and Uruguay) toward the southwest (Patagonia). High precipitation areas dominated by rangelands had higher NDVI-1 and lower RREL values than neighboring areas dominated by crops. The relative annual range of NDVI was maximum for the northern portion of the Argentine pampas (high cover of summer crops) and the subantarctic forests in southern Chile (high cover of deciduous tree species). More than 25% of the area showed an NDVI peak in November. Around 40% of the area presented the maximum NDVI during summer. The pampas showed areas with sharp differences in the timing of the NDVI peak associated with different agricultural systems. In the southern pampas, NDVI peaked early (October-November); whereas in the northeastern pampas, NDVI peaked in late summer (February). We classified temperate South America into 19 ecosystem functional types (EFT). The methodology used to define EFTs has advantages over traditional approaches for land classification that are based on structural features. First, the NDVI traits used have a clear biological meaning. Second, remote-sensing data are available worldwide. Third, the continuous record of satellite data allows for a dynamic characterization of ecosystems and landcover changes.
3659066|Previous work in a young Hawaiian forest has shown that nitrogen (N) limits aboveground net primary production (ANPP) more strongly than it does decomposition, despite low soil N availability. In this study, I determined whether (a) poor litter C quality (that is, high litter lignin) poses an overriding constraint on decomposition, preventing decomposers from responding to added N, or (b) high N levels inhibit lignin degradation, lessening the effects of added N on decomposition overall. I obtained leaf litter from one species, Metrosideros polymorpha, which dominates a range of sites in the Hawaiian Islands and whose litter lignin concentration declines with decreasing precipitation. Litter from three dry sites had lignin concentrations of 12% or less, whereas litter from two wet sites, including the study site, had lignin concentrations of more than 18%. This litter was deployed 2.5 years in a common site in control plots (receiving no added nutrients) and in N-fertilized plots. Nitrogen fertilization stimulated decomposition of the low-lignin litter types more than that of the high-lignin litter types. However, in contrast to results from temperate forests, N did not inhibit lignin decomposition. Rather, lignin decay increased with added N, suggesting that the small effect of N on decomposition at this site results from limitation of decomposition by poor C quality rather than from N inhibition of lignin decay. Even though ANPP is limited by N, decomposers are strongly limited by C quality. My results suggest that anthropogenic N deposition may increase leaf litter decomposition more in ecosystems characterized by low-lignin litter than in those characterized by high-lignin litter.
3659025|Dendrochronological studies and forest inventory surveys have reported increased growth and biospheric carbon (C) sequestration for European forests in the recent past. The potential of concomitant changes in forest soil C stocks are not accounted for in the IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories. We developed a model-based approach to address this problem and assess the role of soils in forest C balance in the European Alps. The decomposition model ForClim-D was driven by long-term (that is, 1900-1985 AD) litter input scenarios constructed from forest inventory data, region-specific dendrochronological basal area indices, and time series of anthropogenic litter removal. The effect of spatial climate variability on organic matter decomposition across the case study region (Switzerland) was explicitly accounted for by constant long-term annual means of actual evapotranspiration and temperature. Uncertainties in forest development, litter removal, fine root litter input, and dynamics of forest soil C were studied by an explorative factorial sensitivity analysis. We found that forest soils contribute substantially to the biospheric C sequestration for Switzerland: Our "best estimate" yielded an increase of 0.35 Mt C/y or 0.33 t C/(ha y) in forest soils for 1985, that is, 27% of the C sequestered by forest trees (BUWAL 1994). Uncertainties regarding C accumulation in forest soils were substantial (0.11-0.58 Mt C/y) but could be reduced by estimating forest soil C stocks in the future. Whereas soils can be important for the C balance in naturally regrowing forests, their C sequestration is negligible (less than 5%) relative to anthropogenic CO
40296370|The emergence of 17-year periodical cicadas in Maryland, USA, in 2004 provided a unique opportunity to study the effect of a large, but temporally limited, resource pulse of arthropod detritus on stream ecosystem function. Cicada emergence was quantified in the forests adjacent to two small streams with different histories of riparian disturbance (Intact and Disturbed sites). We estimated the input of cicada detritus to the streams, described its retention and breakdown dynamics, and measured whole-stream respiration over the cicada flight season (May-July). Average emergence density was significantly greater at the Intact site, but average cicada detritus input rates were greater at the Disturbed site. Cicada detritus was locally retained within both streams and rapidly broke down. Daily whole-stream respiration (CR) at both sites responded dramatically to the cicada pulse, with CR doubling pre-cicada measurements following the period of greatest cicada input (Intact: 12.82  23.78 g O m; d ; Disturbed: 2.76  5.77 g O m d) . CR returned to baseline levels when cicada input decreased at the Intact site, but more than doubled again at the Disturbed site (13.14 g O m d), despite a decline in cicada input rate. Differences in respiration response may be a function of differences in cicada input rates as well as differences in microbial community activity. The strong effects on stream ecosystem function exerted by a short but intense input of periodical cicada detritus may provide insights regarding the response of streams to other irregular resource pulses.
27823724|A principle of the cross-scale interaction (CSI) framework is that disturbance-induced landscape changes resulting in coarser-grained spatial structure may non-linearly amplify transfer processes across scales. We studied suspended sediment losses at two spatial scales (0.24 m2 plots and ca. 0.25 ha hillslopes of about 140 m in length) in a semiarid savanna landscape to determine whether the spatial structure of grassy and bare soil areas introduced a non-linear amplification of sediment loss. Sediment loss rates from 0.24 m2 bare plots averaged 1.527 t ha1 y1, which was 23 times the loss rate from nearby grassy plots (0.066 t ha1 y1). These rates were then extrapolated linearly to two hillslopes separated by only 200 m and having similar total grass cover, slope and soil type but differing in the spatial structure of bare soil patches. The coarse-grained hillslope had a large bare patch on its lower slope, whereas the fine-grained hillslope had no bare soil patches when quantified at a 4 m grid-cell resolution. Measured sediment loss from the fine-grained hillslope averaged 0.050 t ha1 y1, whereas the average sediment loss from the coarse-grained hillslope was 2.133 t ha1 y1. By linearly extrapolating from the plot scale, the expected sediment loss for the fine-grained hillslope was 0.066 t ha1 y1, which is similar to that observed. The expected sediment loss for the coarse-grained hillslope was 0.855 t ha1 y1, where linear extrapolation assumed a 46:54 ratio of bare to grassy plots and that the spatial arrangement of plots does not affect sediment loss processes. For the coarse-grained hillslope observed sediment loss is 2.5 times greater than that expected by linear extrapolation from the plot scale. This result indicates a cross-scale interaction related to spatial configuration of patches. We suggest that there were non-linearities in hillslope ecohydrological transfer processes (runoff, erosion) across scales due to a specific patch configuration that greatly amplified sediment loss because the pattern failed to slow runoff and retain sediment before it entered a creek. This example supports the CSI framework and indicates the importance of considering the effect of spatial structure when predicting system dynamics at different scales.
3658617|CO
40603637|Mammal grazing is composed of three mechanisms removal of foliar tissue (defoliation), return of nutrients via dung and urine (fertilization), and trampling. To evaluate the relative role of these mechanisms in the effect of reindeer grazing on soil biota in northern grasslands, we subjected experimental plots in a sub-arctic alpine meadow to defoliation, fertilization (using NPK-solution), simulated trampling, and their factorial combinations once a year from 2002 to 2004 and measured the response of plants and decomposers (including microbes, nematodes, collembolans, and enchytraeids) in 2004. Trampling affected both plant and decomposer communities: the coverage of the moss Pleurozium schreberi and the sedge Carex vaginata, as well as the abundance of collembolans and enchytraeids were reduced in trampled plots. Trampling and fertilization also interacted significantly, with fertilization increasing the abundance of bacteria and bacterial-feeding and omnivorous nematodes in trampled plots only, and trampling decreasing fungal biomass in non-fertilized plots only. Defoliation had no overall effects on plants or decomposers. Nematode genera were not affected by the experimental treatments, but nematode and plant communities were significantly associated, and all decomposer biota, except collembolans, were strongly affected by the spatial heterogeneity of the study site. Our results indicate that trampling may have larger and defoliation and fertilization smaller roles than anticipated in explaining reindeer grazing effects in sub-arctic grasslands. However, even the effects of trampling seem to be outweighed by the spatial heterogeneity of decomposer abundances. This suggests that in subarctic grasslands spatial variation in abiotic factors can be a more important factor than grazing in controlling soil biota abundances.
25622883|We studied the effect of long-term water table drawdown on the vascular plant community in an ombrotrophic bog in central Finland by measuring aboveground biomass and belowground production (by in-growth cores) across plant functional groups including herbs, shrubs, and trees. We compared drained and undrained portions 45 years after the installation of a drainage ditch network, which has lowered water levels of 15-20 cm on average in the drained part of the site. Although shrub fine root production did not differ significantly between sites, water table drawdown increased belowground tree fine root production by 740% (3.8  5.4 SD and 28.1  24.1 g m y in undrained and drained sites, respectively) at the expense of herb root production, which declined 38% (27.62  16.40 and 10.58  15.7 g m y in undrained and drained sites, respectively) yielding no significant overall change in total fine root production. Drainage effects on aboveground biomass showed a similar pattern among plant types, as aboveground tree biomass increased dramatically with drainage (79  135 and 2546  1551 g m in drained and undrained sites, respectively). Although total shrub biomass was not significantly different between sites, shrubs allocated more biomass to stems than leaves in the drained site. Drainage also caused a significant shift in shrub species composition. Although trees dominated the aboveground biomass following water table drawdown, understorey vegetation, mainly shrubs, continued to dominate belowground fine root production, comprising 64% of total root production at the drained site. Aboveground biomass proved to be a good predictor of belowground production, suggesting that allometric relationships can be developed to estimate belowground production in these systems. Increase in tree root production can counteract decrease in herb fine root production following water table drawdown, emphasizing the importance of plant functional type responses to water table drawdown. Whether these changes will offset ecosystem C loss via increased plant C storage or stimulate soil organic matter decomposition via increased above- and belowground litter inputs requires further study.
27823656|During the past century, Lake Tkern and Lake Krankesjn, southern Sweden, have shifted repeatedly between a state of clear water and abundant submerged vegetation, and a state of turbid water and sparse vegetation. Long-term empirical data on such apparently alternative stable state dynamics are valuable as complements to modeling and experiments, although the causal mechanisms behind shifts are often difficult to identify in hindsight. Here, we summarize previous studies and discuss possible mechanisms behind the shifts. The most detailed information comes from monitoring of two recent shifts, one in each lake. In the 1980s, L. Krankesjn shifted to clear water following an expansion of sago pondweed, Potamogeton pectinatus. Water clarity increased when the pondweed was replaced by characeans. Zooplankton biomass in summer declined and the concentration of total phosphorus (TP) was reduced to half the previous level. The fish community changed over several years, including an increasing recruitment of piscivorous perch (Perca fluviatilis). An opposite directed shift to turbid water occurred in Lake Tkern in 1995, when biomass of phytoplankton increased in spring, at the expense of submerged vegetation. Consistent with the findings in L. Krankesjn, phyto- and zooplankton biomass increased and the average concentration of TP doubled. After the shift to clear water in L. Krankesjn, TP concentration has increased during the latest decade, supporting the idea that accumulation of nutrients may lead to a long-term destabilization of the clear water state. In L. Tkern, data on TP are inconclusive, but organic nitrogen concentrations oscillated during the 25-year period of clear water. These observations indicate that intrinsic processes cause gradual or periodic changes in system stability, although we cannot exclude the possibility that external forces are also involved. During such phases of destabilization of the clear water state, even small disturbances could possibly trigger a shift, which may explain why causes behind shifts are hard to identify even when they occur during periods of extensive monitoring.
3658598|Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) is positively related to mean annual precipitation, an estimate of water availability. This relationship is fundamental to our understanding and management of grassland ecosystems. However, the slope of the relationship between ANPP and precipitation (precipitation-use efficiency, PUE) has been shown to be different for temporal compared with spatial precipitation series. When ANPP and precipitation are averaged over a number of years for different sites, PUE is similar for grasslands all over the world. Studies for two US Long Term Ecological Research Sites have shown that PUE derived from a longterm dataset (temporal model) has a significantly lower slope than the value derived for sites distributed across the US central grassland region (spatial model). PUE differences between the temporal model and the spatial model may be associated with both vegetational and biogeochemical constraints. Here we use two independent datasets, one derived from field estimates of ANPP and the other from remote sensing, to show that the PUE is low at both the dry end and the wet end of the annual precipitation gradient typical of grassland areas (200-1200 mm), and peaks around 475 mm. The intermediate peak may be related to relatively low levels of both vegetational and biogeochemical constraints at this level of resource availability.
3659026|Nonindigenous species may exert strong effects on ecosystem structure and function. The zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) has been attributed with profound changes in invaded ecosystems across eastern North America. We explored vertical profiles of water flow velocity and chlorophyll a concentration in western Lake Erie, over rocky substrates encrusted with Dreissena, to assess the extent to which mussels influence coupling between benthic and pelagic regions of the lake. Flow velocity was always low at surveyed sites (less than or equal to
3659027|Humanity's dependence on ecosystem support is "mentally hidden" to large segments of society; it has no price in the market and is seldom accounted for in decision making. Similarly, the needs of ecosystems for fresh water for generation of nature's services are largely invisible. Freshwater assessments predominantly have focused on human uses of liquid water in rivers, lakes, and reservoirs. We estimated the spatial appropriation of terrestrial and marine ecosystems-the ecological footprint-of the 85 million inhabitants in the Baltic Sea drainage basin with regard to consumption of food and timber and waste assimilation of nutrients and carbon dioxide. We also estimated the amount of fresh water-the water vapor flow-that the inhabitants depend upon for their appropriation of these ecosystem services. The ecological footprint estimate corresponds to an area as large as 8.5-9.5 times the Baltic Sea and its drainage basin with a per capita ecosystem appropriation of
23501441|The turnover of organic matter in soil depends on the activity of microbial decomposers. However, little is known about how modifications of the diversity of soil microbial communities induced by fresh organic matter (FOM) inputs can regulate carbon cycling. Here, we investigated the decomposition of two 13 C labeled crop residues (wheat and alfalfa) and the dynamics of the genetic structure and taxonomic composition of the soil bacterial communities decomposing 13 C labeled FOM and native unlabeled soil organic matter (SOM), respectively. It was achieved by combining the stable isotope probing method with molecular tools (DNA genotyping and pyrosequencing of 16S rDNA). Although a priming effect (PE) was always induced by residue addition, its intensity increased with the degradability of the plant residue. The input of both wheat and alfalfa residues induced a rapid dynamics of FOM-degrading communities, corresponding to the stimulation of bacterial phyla which have been previously described as copiotrophic organisms. However, the dynamics and the identity of the bacterial groups stimulated depended on the residue added, with Firmicutes dominating in the wheat treatment and Proteobacteria dominating in the alfalfa treatment after 3 days of incubation. In both treatments, SOM-degrading communities were dominated by Acidobacteria, Verrucomicrobia, and Gemmatimonadetes phyla which have been previously described as oligotrophic organisms. An early stimulation of SOM-degrading populations mainly belonging to Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes groups was observed in the alfalfa treatment whereas no change occurred in the wheat treatment. Our findings support the hypothesis that the succession of bacterial taxonomic groups occurring in SOM- and FOM-degrading communities during the degradation process may be an important driver of the PE, and consequently of carbon dynamics in soil.
40603623|Cities can transform ecosystems in multiple ways, through modification of land use and land cover and through exposure to altered physical, chemical, and biological conditions characteristic of urban environments. We compared the multiple impacts of urbanization on microbial carbon (C) and nutrient cycling in ecosystems across Phoenix, Arizona, one of the fastest growing metropolitan areas in the USA. Land-use/land-cover change from desert to managed ecosystems altered soil microbial functioning, primarily through changes in organic matter supply. Although residential xeriscapes often feature native plants and patchy structure like deserts, spatial heterogeneity in soil biogeochemical cycling was not tightly linked to plant canopies. Grassy lawns exhibited higher nitrogen (N) and phosphorus demand by microorganisms than other landscape types, suggesting that high C quality may effectively sequester these nutrients during periods between fertilization events. Soils in native desert remnants exposed to the urban environment had higher organic matter content, but supported lower activities of extracellular peroxidase enzymes compared to outlying deserts. Experimental N enrichment of desert systems decreased peroxidase activities to a similar extent, suggesting that protected desert remnants within the city are receiving elevated N loads that are altering biogeochemical functioning. Although some microbial processes were spatially homogenized in urban desert remnants, resource islands associated with plants remain the dominant organizing factor for most soil properties. The extent to which native desert preserves within the city functionally resemble managed xeriscapes and lawns suggests that these remnant ecosystems are being 'domesticated' by exposure to the urban environment.
25053874|Understanding spatial patterns of net primary production (NPP) is central to the study of terrestrial ecosystems, but efforts are frequently hampered by a lack of spatial information regarding factors such as nitrogen availability and site history. Here, we examined the degree to which canopy nitrogen can serve as an indicator of patterns of NPP at the Bartlett Experimental Forest in New Hampshire by linking canopy nitrogen estimates from two high spectral resolution remote sensing instruments with field measurements and an ecosystem model. Predicted NPP across the study area ranged from less than 700 g
41505943|The 1988 Yellowstone fires were among the first in what has proven to be an upsurge in large severe fires in the western USA during the past 20 years. At the time of the fires, little was known about the impacts of such a large severe disturbance because scientists had had few previous opportunities to study such an event. Ecologists predicted shortand long-term effects of the 1988 fires on vegetation, biogeochemistry, primary productivity, wildlife, and aquatic ecosystems based on scientific understanding of the time. Twenty-plus years of subsequent study allow these early predictions to be evaluated. Most of the original predictions were at least partially supported, but some predictions were refuted, others nuanced, and a few postfire phenomena were entirely unexpected. Post-1988 Yellowstone studies catalyzed advances in ecology focused on the importance of spatial and temporal heterogeneity, contingent influences, and multiple interacting drivers. Post-1988 research in Yellowstone also has changed public perceptions of fire as an ecological process and attitudes towards fire management. Looking ahead to projected climate change and more frequent large fires, the welldocumented ecological responses to the 1988 Yellowstone fires provide a foundation for detecting and evaluating potential changes in fire regimes of temperate mountainous regions.
3659054|To cope with the daunting challenges posed by system complexity while maximizing their organizational interests, resource management institutions must implement strategies aimed at reducing some of the particular dimensions of complexity. Virtually all of the recent initiatives to improve resource management-ecosystem management, adaptive management, stakeholder negotiation, disturbance prevention, multiple mandates for resource management agencies, resource homogenization, restoration ecology, the creation of protected areas, the restoration of local-user rights, and algorithmic resource exploitation rules-are vulnerable to inappropriate interest-driven simplifications, many of which result from patterns of perverse learning. A research agenda designed to identify better means of coping with complexity and the effects of organizational interests could help to improve resource and environmental management.
3658990|Land-use changes considerably alter the patterns and processes of terrestrial ecosystems. In an attempt to assess the impact of the human domination of ecosystems, this study quantifies the effect of human activities on aboveground carbon stocks in vegetation, based on a comparison of potential and actual vegetation in Austria. Following an accounting approach, statistical and GIS data on vegetation, elevation, land use, biomass harvest, as well as forest inventories and real estate statistics, were entered into the assessment, which was performed at the level of municipalities (n = 2,350). The results show that aboveground carbon storage in Austria has been considerably reduced by human activities. Actual vegetation contains 64% less carbon than would be expected in potential vegetation. The conversion of forests to cropland, grasslands, and urban areas has contributed 77% to this reduction in carbon stocks, the remaining 23% is due to forest management. In Austria, aboveground carbon stocks in forests have been reduced by 30% due to reductions in stand age and changes in forest species composition. Placing the data in a historical context, this analysis suggests that the current terrestrial carbon sink is a reversal of past carbon losses.
27823752|Long-term changes in soil phosphorus influence ecosystem development and lead to a decline in the productivity of forests in undisturbed landscapes. Much of the soil phosphorus occurs in a series of organic compounds that differ in their availability to organisms, but changes in the relative abundance of these compounds during pedogenesis remain unknown. We used alkaline extraction and solution phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy to assess the chemical nature of soil organic phosphorus along a 120,000-year post-glacial chronosequence at Franz Josef, New Zealand. Inositol phosphates, DNA, phospholipids, and phosphonates accumulated rapidly during the first 500 years of soil development characterized by nitrogen limitation of biological productivity, but then declined slowly to low concentrations in older soils characterized by intense phosphorus limitation. However, the relative contribution of the various compounds to the total organic phosphorus varied along the sequence in dramatic and surprising ways. The proportion of inositol hexakisphosphate, conventionally considered to be relatively recalcitrant in the environment, declined markedly in older soils, apparently due to a corresponding decline in amorphous metal oxides, which weather to crystalline forms during pedogenesis. In contrast, the proportion of DNA, considered relatively bioavailable in soil, increased continually throughout the sequence, due apparently to incorporation within organic structures that provide protection from biological attack. The changes in soil organic phosphorus coincided with marked shifts in plant and microbial communities, suggesting that differences in the forms and bioavailability of soil organic phosphorus have ecological significance. Overall, the results strengthen our understanding of phosphorus transformations during pedogenesis and provide important insight into factors regulating the composition of soil organic phosphorus.
27823729|Broad scale survey distributions of fish are dominated by some extremely high catches. With a novel survey design we resolved the small-scale fish distribution in the spatio-temporal vicinity of these extreme hauls and showed that in the North Sea they generally do not occur in isolation. An additional case study where stomach contents of fish predators were analyzed revealed that they actually indicate aggregations of piscivorous fish predators on prey aggregations. We show that the predation impact can reach immense dimensions, an aggregation of more than 50 million juvenile cod (Gadus morhua) was entirely wiped out in 5 days by predatory whiting (Merlangius merlangus), aggregating on these juveniles in an area of approximately 18 km2. The consumption of only 32 hot spots of similar magnitude as observed in our study adds up to the average size of an incoming North Sea cod year class. These findings support the hypothesis of predation as the major source of mortality in young-of-the-year demersal fish species and questions the generality of fish aggregation as an effective anti-predator strategy. This study highlights the system-wide structuring force of small-scale predation hot spots and further points to the importance of a more realistic implementation of local high-intensity predation events in food web models.
23501467|Riparian zones in boreal areas such as humid landscapes on minerogenic soils are characterized by diverse, productive, and dynamic vegetation which will rapidly react to climate change. Climate-change models predict that in most parts of the boreal region these zones will be affected by various combinations of increased temperature, less seasonal variation in runoff, increased average discharge, changes in groundwater supply, and a more dynamic ice regime. Increasing temperatures will favor invasion of exotic species whereas species losses are likely to be minor. The hydrologic changes will cause a narrowing of the riparian zone and, therefore, locally reduce species richness whereas effects on primary production are more difficult to predict. More shifts between freezing and thawing during winter will lead to increased dynamics of ice formation and ice disturbance, potentially fostering a more dynamic and species-rich riparian vegetation. Restoration measures that increase water retention and shade, and that reduce habitats for exotic plant species adjacent to rivers can be applied especially in streams and rivers that have been channelized or deprived of their riparian forest to reduce the effects of climate change on riparian ecosystems.
41505903|Soil mineral weathering may serve as a sink for atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO). Increased weathering of soil minerals induced by elevated CO concentration has been reported previously in temperate areas. However, this has not been well documented for the tropics and subtropics. We used model forest ecosystems in open-top chambers to study the effects of CO enrichment alone and together with nitrogen (N) addition on inorganic carbon (C) losses in the leachates. Three years of exposure to an atmospheric CO concentration of 700 ppm resulted in increased annual inorganic C export through leaching below the 70 cm soil profile. Compared to the control without any CO and N treatments, net biocarbonate C (HCO-C) loss increased by 42%, 74%, and 81% in the high CO concentration treatment in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively. Increased inorganic C export following the exposure to the elevated CO was related to both increased inorganic C concentrations in the leaching water and the greater amount of leaching water. Net annual inorganic C (HCO-C and carbonate C: CO-C) loss via the leaching water in the high CO concentration chambers reached 48.0, 49.5, and 114.0 kg ha y in 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively, compared with 33.8, 28.4, and 62.8 kg ha y in the control chambers in the corresponding years. The N addition showed a negative effect on the mineral weathering. The decreased inorganic C concentration in the leaching water and the decreased leaching water amount induced by the high N treatment were the results of the adverse effect. Our results suggest that tropical forest soil systems may be able to compensate for a small part of the atmospheric CO increase through the accelerated processing of CO into HCO-C during soil mineral weathering, which might be transported in part into ground water or oceans on geological timescales.
27823723|In studies of biodiversity, considerations of scale the spatial or temporal domain to which data provide inferenceare important because of the non-arithmetic manner in which species richness increases with area (and total abundance) and because fine-scale mechanisms (for example, recruitment, growth, and mortality of species) can interact with broad scale patterns (for example, habitat patch configuration) to influence dynamics in space and time. The key to understanding these dynamics is to consider patterns of environmental heterogeneity, including patterns produced by natural and anthropogenic disturbance. We studied how spatial variation in three aspects of biodiversity of terrestrial gastropods (species richness, species diversity, and nestedness) on the 16-ha Luquillo Forest Dynamics Plot (LFDP) in a tropical forest of Puerto Rico was affected by disturbance caused by Hurricanes Hugo and Georges, as well as by patterns of historic land use. Hurricane-induced changes in spatial organization of species richness differed from those for species diversity. The gamma components of species richness changed after the hurricanes and were significantly different between Hurricanes Hugo and Georges. Alpha and two beta components of species richness, one related to turnover among sites within areas of similar land use and one related to variation among areas of different land use, varied randomly over time after both hurricanes. In contrast, gamma components of species diversity decreased in Indistinguishable manners after both hurricanes, whereas the rates of change in the alpha component of species diversity differed between hurricanes. Beta components of diversity related to turnover among sites declined after both hurricanes in a consistent fashion. Those related to turnover amng areas with different historic land uses varied stochastically. The immediate effect of hurricanes was to reduce nestedness of gastropod assemblages. Thereafter, nestedness increased during post-hurricane secondary succession, and did so in the same way, regardless of patterns of historic land use. The rates of change in degree of nestedness during secondary succession were different after each hurricane as a result of differences in the severity and extent of the hurricane-induced damage. Our analyses quantified tempral changes in the spatial organization of biodiversity of gastropod assemblages during forest recovery from hurricane-induced damage in areas that had experienced different patterns of historic human land use, and documented the dependence of biodiversity on spatial scale. We hypothesize that cross-scale interactions, likely those between the local demographics of species at the fine scale and the landscape configuration of patches at the broad scale, play a dominant role in affecting critical transfer processes, such as dispersal, and its interrelationship with aspects of biodiversity. Cross-scale interactions have significant implications for the conservation of biodiversity, as the greatest threats to biodiversity arise from habitat modification and fragmentation associated with disturbance arising from human activities.
40603652|There is growing evidence from different sources that prolonged high N deposition causes a shift from nitrogen (N.) limitation to nitrogen and phosphorus (P) co-limitation or even P limitation in many terrestrial ecosystems. However, the number of ecosystems where the type of limitation has been directly tested by longer-term full-factorial field experiments is very limited. We conducted a 5-year fertilization experiment with N and P in the Lneburger Heide (NW Germany) to test the hypothesis that, following decades of elevated atmospheric N inputs, plant growth in dry lowland heaths may have shifted from N to N-P co-limitation or P limitation. We also tested whether the plant tissue N: P ratio reflects the type of nutrient limitation in a continental lowland heathland. Experimental plots dominated by Calluna vulgaris received regular additions of N (50 kg N ha y), P (20 kg P ha y), a combination of both, or water only (control) from 2004 to 2008. Over the whole study period, a highly significant positive N effect on shoot length was found, thus indicating N limitation. We conclude that a clear shift from N limitation to N-P co-limitation or  limitation has not yet occurred. Tissue N: P ratios showed a high temporal variability and no relationship between tissue N:P ratio and the shoot length response of Calluna to nutrient addition was found. The N:P tool is thus of limited use at the local scale and within the range of N:P ratio observed in this study, and should only be used as a rough indicator for the prediction of the type of nutrient limitation in lowland heathland on a larger geographical scale with a broader interval of N:P ratio.
3659008|Plant growth in boreal forests is generally considered to be predominantly nitrogen (N) limited, but forested groundwater discharge areas may be exceptions. In this study, we conducted tests to determine whether highly productive forested groundwater discharge areas generally differ from adjacent groundwater recharge areas in terms of humus chemistry and the availability of phosphorus (P) and N to plants. We investigated six forested sites, divided into groundwater discharge and adjacent groundwater recharge areas, in northern Sweden. The humus layers of the forested groundwater discharge areas were clearly distinguished from the adjacent groundwater recharge areas by having higher acid-digestible calcium (Ca) and/or aluminium (Al) and iron (Fe) content and higher organic P and N content. Soil solution inorganic N ( NH
41505910|In disturbance-prone ecosystems, organisms often persist in spatial refugia during stressful periods. A clear example is the colonization of abandoned river channels by pioneer riparian trees. Here, we examine the prominence of this establishment pathway for a foundation tree species (Fremont cottonwood, Populus fremontii) within the riparian corridor of a large river, the Sacramento River in central California. We quantified the total proportion of forest that initiated as a result of channel abandonment for a 160-km reach, analyzed concurrent patterns of tree establishment with floodplain accretion and sedimentation history, and developed a conceptual model of biogeomorphic evolution of abandoned channels. Historical air photo analysis indicated that stands associated with abandoned channels comprised more than 50% of the total extant cottonwood forest area. Tree-ring evidence showed that cottonwood stands commonly developed immediately following abandonment, and the recruitment window ranged from 4 to 40 years, but was less than 10 years at most sites. Rates of floodplain rise and fine sediment accumulation were high in young sites and decreased logarithmically over time. Together, these results suggest that abandoned channels are an important refuge for cottonwood recruitment, that the greatest opportunity for colonization occurs within a short period after the cutoff event, and that sedimentation processes influence the duration of the colonization window. On rivers where tree recruitment along the active channel is severely limited by hydrologic regulation and/or land management, abandoned channel refugia may play an even more important role in sustaining an ecologically functional riparian corridor. Preserving bank erosion, active meander corridors and forest regeneration zones created by cutoff events are therefore key conservation measures on shifting rivers.
27823663|Climatic variation affects the physical and biological components of ecosystems, and global-climate models predict enhanced sensitivity in polar regions, raising concern for Antarctic animal populations that may show direct responses to changes in sea-ice distribution and extent, or indirect responses to changes in prey distribution and abundance. Here, we show that over a 30-year period in the Ross Sea, average weaning masses of Weddell seals, Leptonychotes weddellii, varied strongly among years and were correlated to large-scale climatic and oceanographic variations. Foraging success of pregnant seals (reflected by weaning mass the following pupping season) increased during summers characterized by reduced sea-ice cover and positive phases of the southern oscillation. These results demonstrate a correlation between environmental variation and an important life history characteristic (weaning mass) of an Antarctic marine mammal. Understanding the mechanisms that link climatic variation and animal life history characteristics will contribute to understanding both population dynamics and global climatic processes. For the world's most southerly distributed mammal species, the projected trend of increasing global climate change raises concern because increasing sea-ice trends in the Ross Sea sector of Antarctica will likely reduce populations due to reduced access to prey as expressed through declines in body condition and reproductive performance.
3659012|Floodplain forest ecosystems are highly valuable to society because of their potential for water quality improvement and vegetation productivity, among many other functions. Previous studies have indicated that hydrology influences productivity but that the relationship between hydroperiod and productivity is a complex one. Consequently, we compared multiple indexes of productivity, nutrient circulation, and hydroperiod among three communities on the Flint River floodplain, Georgia, that differed in terms of inundation frequency. We hypothesized that (a) the wettest community would have the lowest total net primary production (NPP) values because of saturated soil conditions; (b) as wetness increases, nutrient circulation in litterfall would decrease because of the hypothesized lower productivity in the wetter community; and (c) as wetness increases, internal translocation would become more efficient. The study site was partitioned into three wetness types-somewhat poorly drained (SPD), intermediate (I) and poorly drained (PD). We found that belowground biomass was greatest on the SPD, litterfall was similar for all three sites, and that woody biomass current annual increment (CAI) was greatest in the PD community. However, when the three variables were totaled for each site, the PD had the greatest NPP, thus disproving hypothesis (a). For hypothesis (b), we observed that P content in litterfall, although not significant, followed the predicted trend; nitrogen (N) content displayed the opposite pattern (PD > I > SPD). As wetness increased, internal translocation became more efficient for phosphorus (support for hypothesis [c]), but the SPD community was more efficient at retranslocating N (contradiction of hypothesis [c]).
3658956|Land management practices such as no-tillage agriculture and tallgrass prairie restoration have been proposed as a possible means to sequester atmospheric carbon, helping to refurbish soil fertility and replenish organic matter lost as a result of previous agricultural management practices. However, the relationship between land-use changes and ecosystem structure and functioning is not yet understood. We studied soil and vegetation properties over a 4-year period (1995-98), and assembled measurements of microbial biomass, soil organic carbon (SOC) and nitrogen (N), N-mineralization, soil surface carbon dioxide ( CO
3658782|Economists and ecologists are often asked to collaborate on landscape-level analyses designed to jointly assess economic and ecological conditions resulting from environmental policy scenarios. This trend toward multidisciplinary projects, coupled with the growing use of geographic information systems, has led to the development of spatially explicit models that can be used to examine and project land-use change. Although spatial land-use models are still evolving, most published efforts have modeled the conversion of nonurban land to urban uses as a function of explanatory variables based on population density and the spatial proximity of land to roads, markets, and population centers. In this paper, we use a gravity model to describe the urbanization potential of forest and agricultural land as a combination of population and proximity. We develop an empirical model that describes the probability that forests and agricultural land in western Oregon and western Washington were transformed to residential, commercial, or industrial uses over a 30-year period as a function of urbanization potential, other socioeconomic factors, and geographic and physical land characteristics. Land-use data were provided by the USDA Forest Service's Forest Inventory and Analysis program. We use this empirical model to generate geographic information system maps depicting the probability of future land-use change that can be integrated with landscape-level ecological models developed for western Oregon's Coast Range.
3658690|We contrast the geochemistry of the Madison drainage, which has high concentrations of geothermal features, with the Lamar drainage of Yellowstone National Park, USA, and trace the consequences of geochemical differences through abiotic and biotic linkages in the ecosystem. Waters in the geothermal-dominated drainage contained anomalously high levels of fluoride (F) and silica ( SiO
40296355|Thorough understanding of the potential for threshold dynamics and catastrophic shifts to occur in natural systems is of great importance for ecosystem conservation and restoration. However, verifying the presence of alternative stable states, one of the theoretical explanations for sudden shifts in natural systems, has proven to be a major challenge. We examine processes on local and landscape scales in salt-marsh pioneer zones, to assess the presence of alternative stable states in this system. To that end, we investigated the presence of typical characteristics of alternative stable states: bimodality and threshold dynamics. We also studied whether vegetation patches remained stable over long time periods. Analysis of false-color aerial photographs revealed clear bimodality in plant biomass distribution. By transplanting Spartina anglica plants of three different biomass classes on three geographically different marshes, we showed that a biomass threshold limits the establishment of Spartina patches, potentially explaining their patchy distribution. The presence of bimodality and biomass thresholds points to the presence of alternative stable states and the potential for sudden shifts, at small, within-patch scales and on short time scales. However, overlay analysis of aerial photographs from a salt marsh in The Netherlands, covering a time span of 22 years, revealed that there was little long-term stability of patches, as vegetation cover in this area is slowly increasing. Our results suggest that the concept of alternative stable states is applicable to the salt-marsh pioneer vegetation on small spatio-temporal scales. However, the concept does not apply to long-term dynamics of decades or centuries of heterogeneous salt-marsh pioneer zones, as landscape-scale processes may determine the large-scale dynamics of salt marshes. Hence, our results provide the interesting perspective that threshold dynamics may occur in systems with, on the long term, only a single stable state.
27823693|Proper assessment of ecological data must consider uncertainty. However, reported estimation of uncertainty in calculated values of nutrient spiraling indices is rare. Interpretations based on single values of spiraling indices, may therefore be unwittingly flawed. We investigated the sources of analytical uncertainty in the nutrient concentrations used to calculate two spiraling indices, uptake length (Sw) and uptake velocity (Vf), and used Monte Carlo Simulation (MCS) to estimate the resultant uncertainty in index values. We also examined the effect of the level of nutrient enrichment on the magnitude of index uncertainty. Outcomes under high and low nutrient uptake capacity were compared by performing nutrient addition experiments in two streams with contrasting ambient nutrient concentrations. We found that small differences (or uncertainties) in the average plateau nutrient concentration resulted in large uncertainties in spiraling indices. The uncertainty resulted from a combination of small differences in nutrient concentrations between upstream and downstream stations (particularly for the low uptake case), the low nutrient concentration added into the stream, and the sample matrix and storage. The stream with low nutrient uptake capacity had larger relative uncertainties in Sw than when the nutrient uptake capacity was high. The presence of such errors demands that Sw and Vf values should be reported with uncertainty, rather than the normal practice of a single calculated value.
27823735|The large accumulation of organic matter in peatlands is primarily caused by slow rates of litter decomposition. We determined rates of decomposition of major peat-forming litters of vascular plants and mosses at five sites: a poor fen in New Hampshire and a bog hummock, a poor fen, a beaver pond margin and a beaver pond in Ontario. We used the litterbag technique, retrieving triplicate litterbags six or seven times over 35 years, and found that simple exponential decay and continuous-quality non-linear regression models could adequately characterize the decomposition in most cases. Within each site, the rate of decomposition at the surface was generally Typha latifolia leaves = Chamaedaphne calyculata leaves = Carex leaves > Chamaedaphne calyculata stems > hummock Sphagnum = lawn/hollow Sphagnum, with exponential decay constant (k) values generally ranging from 0.05 to 0.37 and continuous-quality model initial quality (q0) values ranging from 1.0 (arbitrarily set for Typha leaves) to 0.7 (Sphagnum). In general, surface decay rates were slowest at the bog hummock site, which had the lowest water table, and in the beaver pond, which was inundated, and fastest at the fens. The continuous-quality model site decomposition parameter (u0) ranged from 0.80 to 0.17. Analysis of original litter samples for carbon, nitrogen and proximate fractions revealed a relatively poor explanation of decomposition rates, as defined by k and q0, compared to most well-drained ecosystems. Three litters, roots of sedge and a shrub and Typha leaves, were placed at depths of 10, 30 and 60 cm at the sites. Decomposition rates decreased with depth at each site, with k means of 0.15, 0.08 and 0.05 y1 at 10, 30 and 60 cm, respectively, and u0 of 0.25, 0.13 and 0.07. These differences are primarily related to the position of the water table at each site and to a lesser extent the cooler temperatures in the lower layers of the peat. The distinction between bog and fen was less important than the position of the water table. These results show that we can characterize decomposition rates of surface litter in northern peatlands, but given the large primary productivity below-ground in these ecosystems, and the differential rates of decomposition with depth, subsurface input and decomposition of organic matter is an important and relatively uncertain attribute.
3659005| We used a 10-year record (1990-99) of composited and cloud-screened reflectances from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) to test for phenological differences between urban and rural areas in the eastern United States deciduous broadleaf forest (DBF). We hypothesized that well-documented urban heat island effects would be associated with alterations in temperature-sensitive vegetation phenology. Our objectives were thus (a) to investigate possible differences in the start of the growing season (SOS) and end of the growing season (EOS) between the urban and DBF land covers, (b) to investigate related differences in greenness amplitude and fractional cover, and (c) to develop a generalized additive model (GAM) to predict the spatial variation of observed differences. By analyzing individual 1 latitude by 1 longitude blocks, we found that, on average, urbanization is associated with a growing season expansion of 7.6 days. Most of this effect is caused by an earlier SOS in urban areas. In all cases, urban regions had lower fractional cover and greenness amplitude. The GAM model failed to produce a viable model for differences in EOS, probably because it is dominated by photoperiod controls with only a minor temperature impact. SOS differences were predicted with an accuracy of about 2.4 days, with a GAM consisting of smoothed functions of mean annual average temperature, urban fractional cover, and the urban vs DBF greenness amplitude difference. We speculate that evidence of a phenological response to warming indicates that global warming, without reduction in DBF vegetation cover and greenness amplitude, may increase carbon sequestration in mesic deciduous forests. 
3658609|Soil nutrient pools and nitrogen dynamics in old-growth forests were compared with selectively logged stands and stands that were selectively logged and then burned approximately 100 years ago to test the hypothesis that land-use history exerts persistent controls on nutrient capital and nitrogen (N) transformation rates. We provide estimates of net N mineralization and nitrification rates for old-growth forests from the northeastern United States, a region in which few old-growth forests remain and for which few published accounts of mineralization rates exist. At the plot level, no effects of the dominant tree species were observed on any measured soil properties or N-cycling rates. Effects of alternate disturbance histories were detected in soil carbon (C) and N pools. Old-growth forest soils had higher total C
27823762|Although field studies have demonstrated an ecosystem-specific effect of experimental atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition on litter decomposition, a mechanistic understanding of how ligninolytic microbial communities respond to atmospheric deposition is lacking. Because high levels of inorganic N suppress lignin decomposition by some basidiomycetes, it is plausible that the abundance and activity of these key microorganisms underlies differential ecosystem responses of decomposition to atmospheric N deposition. We hypothesize that: (a) atmospheric N deposition will cause an ecosystem-specific reduction in basidiomycete activity and abundance with greatest decreases in ecosystems with lignin-rich forest litter and (b) the abundance of lignin degrading basidiomycetes will be positively correlated with ligninolytic enzyme activity. To test these hypotheses, we measured the effects of experimental N deposition on the potential activity of phenol oxidase enzymes, and the abundance of basidiomycete genes encoding laccase, a primary phenol oxidase enzyme, in three hardwood forests spanning a range of leaf litter lignin content. The black oak-white oak (BOWO) contains high lignin litter, the sugar maple-basswood (SMBW) has low lignin litter, and the sugar maple-red oak (SMRO) is intermediate. An ecosystem by N deposition interaction significantly influenced phenol oxidase activity in the surface soil (P = 0.05), where phenol oxidase activity decreased with increasing experimental N deposition in the BOWO ecosystem. No consistent response to N deposition was evident for surface soil phenol oxidase activity within either the SMRO or SMBW ecosystem. This interaction did not influence laccase gene abundance. Instead, basidiomycete laccase gene abundance was reduced by experimental N deposition (main effect) in surface soil. There was only a weak correlation between basidiomycete laccase gene abundance and potential phenol oxidase enzyme activity, suggesting that the abundance of organisms possessing laccase genes may not control phenol oxidase activity in soil. Our results suggest that the regulation of laccase gene expression may mediate the decomposition response to atmospheric N deposition.
3658926|Many high-elevation lakes in designated wilderness are stocked with native and nonnative fish by state fish and game agencies to provide recreational fishing opportunities. In several areas, this practice has become controversial with state wildlife managers who support historical recreational use of wilderness, federal wilderness managers who assert that stocking compromises some of the ecological and social values of wilderness, and different public groups that support one or the other position. Herein we examine this controversy from the perspective of the 1964 Wilderness Act, its judicial interpretation, the policies of the federal agencies, and formal agreements between federal and state agencies. Although some state stocking programs restore native fish populations, other programs may compromise some of the ecological and social values of wilderness areas. Further, although current federal regulations recognize state authority for fish stocking, judicial interpretation gives federal agencies the authority for direct involvement in decisions regarding fish stocking in wilderness. Where there are differences of opinion between state and federal managers, this judicial interpretation strongly points to the need for improved cooperation, communication, and coordination between state wildlife managers and federal wilderness managers to balance recreational fishing opportunities and other wildlife management activities with wilderness values.
25622874|Resilience theory suggests that ecosystems can persist for long periods, before changing rapidly to a new vegetation phase. Transition between phases occurs when ecological thresholds have been crossed, and is followed by a reorganization of biotic and environmental interactions, leading to the emergence of a new vegetation phase or quasi-stable state. Savannas are dynamic, complex systems in which fire, herbivory, water and nutrient availability interact to determine tree abundance. Phase and transition has been observed in savannas, but the role of these different possible drivers is not always clear. In this study, our objectives were to identify phase and transition in the fossil pollen record, and then to explore the role of nitrogen and fire in these transitions using N isotopes and charcoal abundance. We present palaeoenvironmental data from the Kruger National Park, South Africa, which show transition between grassland and savanna phases. Our results show transition at the end of the ninth century A.D. from a nutrient- and herbivore-limited grazing lawn, in which fire was absent and C grasses were the dominant and competitively superior plant form, to a water-, fire- and herbivory-limited semi-arid savanna, in which C grasses and C trees and shrubs co-existed. The data accord with theoretical frameworks that predict that variability in ecosystems clusters in regions of higher probability space, interspersed by rapid transitions between these phases. The data are also consistent with the idea that phase transitions involve switching between different dominant driving processes or limiting factors.
3658762| The effects of major reductions in organic matter, total phosphorus (TP), and total nitrogen (TN) loading on the chemical environment, trophic structure, and dynamics of the hypertrophic, shallow Lake Sbygrd were followed for 18 years. After the reduction in organic matter loading in 1976, the lake initially shifted from a summer clear-water state, most likely reflecting high grazing pressure by large Daphnia species, to a turbid state with extremely high summer mean chlorophyll a (up to
3658899|Nitrogen (N) inputs to many terrestrial ecosystems are increasing, and most of these inputs are sequestered in soil organic matter within 1-3 years. Rapid (minutes to days) immobilization focused previous N retention research on actively cycling plant, microbial, and inorganic N pools. However, most ecosystem N resides in soil organic matter that is not rapidly cycled. This large, stable soil N pool may be an important sink for elevated N inputs. In this study, we measured the capacity of grassland soils to retain
23253695|Global patterns in soil, plant, and fungal stable isotopes of N ( 15 N) show promise as integrated metrics of N cycling, particularly the activity of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi. At small spatial scales, however, it remains difficult to differentiate the underlying causes of plant  15 N variability and this limits the application of such measurements to better understand N cycling. We conducted a landscape-scale analysis of  15 N values from 31 putatively N-limited monospecific black spruce (Picea mariana) stands in central Alaska to assess the two main hypothesized sources of plant  15 N variation: differing sources and ECM fractionation. We found roughly 20% of the variability in black spruce foliar N and  15 N values to be correlated with the concentration and  15 N values of soil NH 4 + and dissolved organic N (DON) pools, respectively. However, 15 N-based mixing models from 24 of the stands suggested that fractionation by ECM fungi obscures the 15 N signature of soil N pools. Models, regressions, and N abundance data all suggested that increasing dependence on soil DON to meet black spruce growth demands predicates increasing reliance on ECM-derived N and that black spruce, on average, received 53% of its N from ECM fungi. Future research should partition the  15 N values within the soil DON pool to determine how choice of soil  15 N values influence modeled ECM activity. The C balance of boreal forests is tightly linked to N cycling and  15 N values may be useful metrics of changes to these connections.
3658814| We investigated the effects of removing near-stream Rhododendron and of the natural blowdown of canopy trees on nutrient export to streams in the southern Appalachians. Transects were instrumented on adjacent hillslopes in a first-order watershed at the Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory (3503N, 8325W). Dissolved organic carbon (DOC), K
3658756|The aim of this review is to identify problems, find general patterns, and extract recommendations for successful biomanipulation. An important conclusion is that the pelagic food chain from fish to algae may not be the only process affected by a biomanipulation. Instead, this process should be viewed as the "trigger" for secondary processes, such as establishment of submerged macrophytes, reduced internal loading of nutrients, and reduced resuspension of particles from the sediment. However, fish reduction also leads to a high recruitment of young-of-the-year (YOY) fish, which feed extensively on zooplankton. This expansion of YOY the first years after fish reduction is probably a major reason for less successful biomanipulations. Recent, large-scale biomanipulations have made it possible to update earlier recommendations regarding when, where, and how biomanipulation should be performed. More applicable recommendations include (1) the reduction in the biomass of planktivorous fish should be 75% or more; (2) the fish reduction should be performed efficiently and rapidly (within 1-3 years); (3) efforts should be made to reduce the number of benthic feeding fish; (4) the recruitment of YOY fish should be reduced; (5) the conditions for establishment of submerged macrophytes should be improved; and (6) the external input of nutrients (phosphorus and nitrogen) should be reduced as much as possible before the biomanipulation. Recent biomanipulations have shown that, correctly performed, the method also achieves results in large, relatively deep and eutrophic lakes, at least in a 5-year perspective. Although repeated measures may be necessary, the general conclusion is that biomanipulation is not only possible, but also a relatively inexpensive and attractive method for management of eutrophic lakes, and in particular as a follow-up measure to reduced nutrient load.
3658610|Soil microorganisms play an important role in the mobilization of phosphorus (P), and these activities may be beneficial for plant P utilization. We investigated the effects on microbial P availability of different combinations of aluminum and iron (Al + Fe) concentrations and different P pools in humus soils from boreal forest ecosystems. We measured respiration rates in laboratory incubations before and after additions of glucose plus ( NH
25622896|The quantitative mapping of food we flows based on empirical data is a crucial yet difficult task in ecology. The difficulty arises from the under-sampling of food webs, because most data sets are incomplete and uncertain. In this article, we review methods to quantify food web flows based on empirical data using linear inverse models (LIM). The food web in a LIM is described as a linear function of its flows, which are estimated from empirical data by inverse modeling. The under-sampling of food webs implies that infinitely many different solutions exist that are consistent with a given data set. The existing approaches to food web LIM select a single solution from this infinite set by invoking additional assumptions: either a specific selection criterion that has no solid ecological basis is used or the data set is artificially upgraded by assigning fixed values to, for example, physiological parameters. Here, we advance a likelihood approach (LA) that follows a different solution philosophy. Rather than singling out one particular solution, the LA generates a large set of possible solutions from which the marginal probability density function (mPDF) of each flow and correlations between flows can be derived. The LA is exemplified with an example model of a soil food web and is made available in the open-source R-software. Moreover, we show how stoichiometric data, stable isotope signatures, and fatty acid compositions can be included in the LIM to alleviate the under-sampling problem. Overall, LIM prove to be a powerful tool in food web research, which can bridge the gap between empirical data and the analysis of food web structures.
40603631|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is an important component of aquatic food webs. We compare the uptake kinetics for NH-N and different fractions of DOM during soil and salmon leachate additions by evaluating the uptake of organic forms of carbon (DOC) and nitrogen (DON), and proteinaceous DOM, as measured by parallel factor (PARAFAC) modeling of DOM fluorescence. Seasonal DOM slug additions were conducted in three headwater streams draining a bog, forested wetland, and upland forest using DOM collected by leaching watershed soils. We also used DOM collected from bog soil and salmon carcasses to perform additions in the upland forest stream. DOC uptake velocity ranged from 0.010 to 0.063 mm s and DON uptake velocity ranged from 0.015 to 0.086 mm s which provides evidence for the whole-stream uptake of allochthonous DOM. These findings imply that wetlands could potentially be an important source of DOM to support stream heterotrophic production. There was no significant difference in the uptake of DOC and DON across the soil leachate additions (P > 0.05), although differential uptake of DOM fractions was observed as protein-like fluorescence was removed from the water column more efficiently than bulk DOC and DON (P < 0.05). Moreover, PARAFAC analysis of DOM fluorescence showed that proteinlike fluorescence decreased downstream during all DOM additions, whereas humic-like fluorescence did not change. This differential processing in added DOM suggests slow and fast turnover pools exist for aquatic DOM. Taken together, our findings argue that DON could potentially fill a larger role in satisfying biotic N demand in oligotrophic headwater streams than previously thought.
25053824|The FLooded Upland Dynamics Experiment (FLUDEX) at the Experimental Lakes Area (ELA) in northwest Ontario was designed to test the hypothesis that methylmercury (MeHg) production in reservoirs is related to the amount, and subsequent decomposition, of flooded organic matter. Three upland forest sites that varied in the amounts of organic carbon stored in vegetation and soils (Low C, 30,870 kg C
40603429|We assessed the ecological value of golf courses based on a quantitative synthesis of studies in the scientific literature that have measured and compared biota on golf courses to that of biota in greenarea habitats related to other land uses. We found that golf courses had higher ecological value in 64% of comparative cases. This pattern was consistent also for comparisons based on measures of species richness, as well as for comparisons of overall measures of birds and insectsthe fauna groups most widely examined in the studies. Many golf courses also contribute to the preservation of fauna of conservation concern. More broadly, we found that the ecological value of golf courses significantly decreases with land types having low levels of anthropogenic impact, like natural and nature-protected areas. Conversely, the value of golf courses significantly increases with land that has high levels of anthropogenic impact, like agricultural and urban lands. From an ecosystem management perspective, golf courses represent a promising measure for restoring and enhancing biodiversity in ecologically simplified landscapes. Furthermore, the review suggests that golf courses hold a real potential to be designed and managed to promote critical ecosystem services, like pollination and natural pest control, providing an opportunity for joint collaboration among conservation, restoration and recreational interests.
25622890|Knowledge of how ecosystem carbon (C) processes respond to variations in precipitation is crucial for assessing impacts of climate change on terrestrial ecosystems. In this study, we examined variations of shoot and root biomass, standing and surface litter, soil respiration, and soil C content along a natural precipitation gradient from 430 to 1200 mm in the southern Great Plains, USA. Our results show that shoot biomass and soil respiration increased linearly with mean annual precipitation (MAP), whereas root biomass and soil C content remained relatively constant along the precipitation gradient. Consequently, the root/shoot ratio linearly decreased with MAP. However, patterns of standing, surface, and total litter mass followed quadratic relationships with MAP along the gradient, likely resulting from counterbalance between litter production and decomposition. Those linear/quadratic equations describing variations of eco-system C processes with precipitation could be useful for model development, parameterization, and validation at landscape and regional scales to improve predictions of C dynamics in grasslands in response to climate change. Our results indicated that precipitation is an important driver in shaping ecosystem functioning as reflected in vegetation production, litter mass, and soil respiration in grassland ecosystems.
3658997| We examined changes in coral assemblages in four back-reef locations across the warm 1998 E1 Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) event based on annually collected line-transect data from 3 years before and after this event. The physical locations of the reefs differed such that there was a 120%-275% warm-season range in the SDs of seawater temperatures but only minor differences in mean temperatures, based on 2 non-ENSO years. We tested the predictions that (a) rare warm-water events would produce fewer changes in eurythermal than stenothermal coral assemblages; and (b) after the disturbance, the stenothermal assemblages would more closely resemble the eurythermal ones. The 1998 event produced fewer changes in coral cover and community similarity among the assemblages in the reefs with high variation in temperature than in those with low variation in temperature. Despite the initially lower taxonomic richness in the eurythermal assemblage, there was an additional loss of taxonomic richness in the high and none in the stenothermal reefs. There was some evidence for taxonomic convergence, of the stenothermal towards the eurythermal reefs and a general loss of some of the branching taxa, such as branching Porites, Pavona, and Stylophora, and a relative increase in massive Porites and Favia. There was, however, moderate site specificity that did not produce true convergence. The eurythermal assemblages maintained the basic community structure but lost taxonomic richness, whereas the opposite was true for the stenothermal assemblages. 
3658594|We compared simulated time series of nitrogen-15 (
40296283|We integrated soil models with an established ecosystem process model (SIPNET, simplified photosynthesis and evapotranspiration model) to investigate the influence of soil processes on modelled values of soil CO fluxes (Rsoil). Model parameters were determined from literature values and a data assimilation routine that used a 7-year record of the net ecosystem exchange of CO  and environmental variables collected at a high-elevation subalpine forest (the Niwot Ridge AmeriFlux site). These soil models were subsequently evaluated in how they estimated the seasonal contribution of Rsoil to total ecosystem respiration (TER) and the seasonal contribution of root respiration (RRoot) to Rsoil-Additionally, these soil models were compared to data assimilation output of linear models of soil heterotrophic respiration. Explicit modelling of root dynamics led to better agreement with literature values of the contribution of RSoil to TER. Estimates of RSoil/TER when root dynamics were considered ranged from 0.3 to 0.6; without modelling root biomass dynamics these values were 0.1-0.3. Hence, we conclude that modelling of root biomass dynamics is critically important to model the RSoil/TER ratio correctly. When soil heterotrophic respiration was dependent on linear functions of temperature and moisture independent of soil carbon pool size, worse model-data fits were produced. Adding additional complexity to the soil pool marginally improved the model-data fit from the base model, but issues remained. The soil models were not successful in modelling RRoot/RSoil. This is partially attributable to estimated turnover parameters of soil carbon pools not agreeing with expected values from literature and being poorly constrained by the parameter estimation routine. We conclude that net ecosystem exchange of CO alone cannot constrain specific rhizospheric and microbial components of soil respiration. Reasons for this include inability of the data assimilation routine to constrain soil parameters using ecosystem CO flux measurements and not considering the effect of other resource limitations (for example, nitrogen) on the microbe biomass. Future data assimilation studies with these models should include ecosystem-scale measurements of Rsoil in the parameter estimation routine and experimentally determine soil model parameters not constrained by the parameter estimation routine.
3658691| Accurate characterization of leaf area index (LAI) is required to quantify the exchange of energy, water, and carbon between terrestrial ecosystems and the atmosphere. The objective of this study was to use a cyclic sampling design to compare the spatial patterns of LAI of the dominant terrestrial ecosystems that comprised the area around the 447-m WLEF television tower, equipped with an eddy flux system, near Park Falls, Wisconsin, USA. A second objective was to compare the efficiency of cyclic, random, and uniform sampling designs in terms of the precision of spatial information derived per unit sampling effort. The vegetation surrounding the tower was comprised (more than 80%) of four major forest cover types: forested wetlands, upland aspen forests, upland northern hardwood forests, and upland pine forests, and a fifth, nonforested cover type, grass (open meadow). LAI differed significantly among the five cover types and averaged 3.45, 3.57, 3.82, 3.99, and 1.14 for northern hardwoods, aspen, forested wetlands, upland conifers, and grass, respectively. The cyclic sampling design maximized information about the variance of vegetation characteristics of the heterogeneous landscape and decreased by 60% the number of plots needed to obtain the same confidence interval width using a random sampling design. The range of spatial autocorrelation for LAI was 147 m, but it was decreased to 117 m when vegetation cover was included as a covariate. The cyclic sampling design has several important advantages over other sampling designs. The cyclic sampling design increased the sampling efficiency by optimizing the placement of plots so they were distributed more efficiently for geostatistical analyses such as semi-variograms, correlograms, and spatial regression and can incorporate covariates (for example, vegetation cover, soil properties, and so on) that may explain the sources of spatial patterns. The cyclic sampling design was used to derive a spatial map of LAI and the average LAI for the 3  2 km area centered on the flux tower was 3.51  0.89 (with a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 6.35). Airborne and satellite reflectance data have also been used to characterize LAI, but in this region, and many other forests of the world, remotely sensed vegetation indexes saturate in forests with an LAI greater than 3-5. The cyclic sampling design also provides a general ecological sampling approach that can be used at multiple scales. 
3658987|The carbon budget of the Wind River old-growth forest is being addressed from a variety of perspectives and with a range of approaches. The goal of this comprehensive analysis is developing a thorough, general, and validated understanding of the carbon balance, as well as the processes controlling it. The initial results from studies addressing annual carbon (C) balance with ground-based methods, eddy flux, leaf-based models, and ecosystem models are consistent in some, but not all, respects. Net primary production is
27823688|The aim of this study was to characterize the short-term land-cover change processes that were detected in Eastern Africa, based on a set of change metrics that allow for the quantification of interannual changes in vegetation productivity, changes in vegetation phenology and a combination of both. We tested to what extent land use, fire activity and livestock grazing modified the vegetation response to short-term rainfall variability in East Africa and how this is reflected in change metrics derived from MODerate Imaging Spectrometer (MODIS) time series of remote sensing data. We used a hierarchical approach to disentangle the contribution of human activities and climate variability to the patterns of short-term vegetation change in East Africa at different levels of organization. Our results clearly show that land use significantly influences the vegetation response to rainfall variability as measured by time series of MODIS data. Areas with different types of land use react in a different way to interannual climate variability, leading to different values of the change indices depending on the land use type. The impact of land use is more reflected in interannual variability of vegetation productivity and overall change in the vegetation, whereas changes in phenology are mainly driven by climate variability and affect most vegetation types in similar ways. Our multilevel approach led to improved models and clearly demonstrated that climate influence plays at a different scale than land use, fire and herbivore grazing. It helped us to understand dynamics within and between biomes in the study area and investigate the relative importance of different factors influencing short-term variability in change indices at different scales.
40296349|Peatland ground layer species composition is intricately tied to ecosystem function (for example, carbon storage). As the primary disturbance in boreal bogs, wildfire selectively removes the ground layer vegetation, creating heterogeneous habitat conditions and initiating succession. However, the successional trajectory of the ground layer community following fire is poorly understood. Here we assess spatial and temporal changes in community composition along a chronosequence of post-fire bogs (1105 years since fire) in north central Alberta, Canada. We established vegetation plots in 13 bogs and repeatedly monitored them from 20032006. We found three phases of the post-fire bog community, grading from pioneer true moss (for example, Polytrichum strictum) dominance soon post-fire ( < 10 ysf) to persistent Sphagnum dominance in mature sites (2080 ysf) with partial replacement by feathermosses (for example, Pleurozium schreberi) in older bogs ( > 80 ysf). Mature bogs dominated by Sphagnum fuscum had the greatest species richness, although species evenness was low. Spatial heterogeneity of ground layer community composition was bimodal, peaking approximately 10 ysf (co-occurrence of true mosses and Sphagnum) and more than 80 ysf when feathermosses encroach and break-up Sphagnum dominance, resulting in inverse relationships of community species richness and diversity along the post-fire recovery gradient. Based on these results, we develop a conceptual model of post-fire bog recolonization and succession, in which microtopography, soil moisture, and combustion severity interact, thereby presenting the first comprehensive description of the spatio-temporal post-fire successional trajectory of the bog ground layer.
27823716|The highly invasive giant knotweed (Reynoutria spp.) often displaces nettle (Urtica dioica) dominated stands in European floodplains. Urtica-dominated stands differ from the monospecific Reynoutria stands in plant species richness and stand structure. We thus hypothesize that Reynoutria invasion profoundly alters ecosystem structure and function, with negative effects cascading up through the food chain. We performed a paired sampling design in six sites belonging to two different locations and studied effects on the soil and the litter-dwelling fauna. Reynoutria stands differed in habitat structure and were characterized by decreased soil pH and potassium depletion. The faunal analysis is based on model groups of herbivore generalists (Gastropoda), detritivores (Isopoda and Diplopoda), and predators (Opiliones). The gastropod assemblages from Reynoutria stands were severely impoverished subsets of those from Urtica stands with reduced densities, species richness and diversity. In general, snails were more sensitive to Reynoutria invasion than slugs such as the invasive Arion 'lusitanicus'. Among detritivores, the abundance of the Isopoda decreased, whereas Diplopoda were not affected by Reynoutria invasion. Yet, the relative abundance of detritivores was significantly higher within the Reynoutria stands. Abundance, species richness and diversity of the predatory Opiliones were higher in the relatively sparse Reynoutria stands. We conclude that ecosystem changes associated with Reynoutria invasion are characterized by shifts from a plant-based to a detritus-based food chain and that Reynoutria invasion primarily enhances predators that profit from the simplified vegetation structure.
3659037| The objective of this study was to quantify spatial patterns in above- and belowground biomass, primary productivity, and growth efficiency along a tidal gradient in a 4700-ha mangrove forest in the Dominican Republic. We tested the hypothesis that spatial patterns of forest structure and growth following 50 years of development were associated with variations in the soil environment across the tidal gradient. Twenty-three plots were monitored from 1994 to 1998. Aboveground biomass and biomass accumulation were estimated by applying allometric regression equations derived from dimension analysis of trees harvested at our study site. Soil porewater salinity ranged from
25053853|The arboreal ant communities of a primary lowland rain forest and three differently disturbed forests that lie close together forming an anthropogenic disturbance gradient were collected with insecticide fogging. Combined samples from all trees (87 foggings) comprised 153,504 ants sorted to 331 morphospecies. The primary forest ant fauna was characterized by high species richness and 53 foggings were necessary to collect communities representatively. Another 63 species of ants were found in the disturbed forests indicating a large regional species pool that might exceed 420 species of arboreal ants. Anthropogenic disturbance caused a change in the taxonomic composition, diversity and structure of ant communities. Community size was a predictor of species richness in the severely disturbed forest types but not in the old secondary or primary forest. Ant abundance had declined significantly in the disturbed forests and only 10% of the primary forest's species were collected in the most disturbed forest type. In each of the secondary forests a change in the frequency distribution of species was observed and a small number of species had gained numerical dominance. Analysis of species associations indicates that the strength of species interactions changed with the degree of forest disturbance. These changes were still clearly recognizable after 40 years of forest regeneration despite optimal conditions for colonization from the adjacent primary forest, demonstrating that the time scale needed for forest recovery after anthropogenic disturbance is very long.
40296318|Headwater streams represent the key sites of nutrient retention, but little is known about temporal variation in this important process. We used monthly measurements over 2 years to examine variation in retention of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) and ammonium (NH) in two Mediterranean headwater streams with contrasting hydrological regimes (that is, perennial versus intermittent). Differences in retention between streams were more evident for NH , likely due to strong differences in the potential for nitrogen limitation. In both streams, nutrient-retention efficiency was negatively influenced by abrupt discharge changes, whereas gradual seasonal changes in SRP demand were partially controlled by riparian vegetation dynamics through changes in organic matter and light availability. Nutrient concentrations were below saturation in the two streams; however, SRP demand increased relative to NH demand in the intermittent stream as the potential for phosphorus limitation increased (that is, higher dissolved inorganic nitrogen: SRP ratio). Unexpectedly, variability in nutrient retention was not greater in the intermittent stream, suggesting high resilience of biological communities responsible for nutrient uptake. Within-stream variability of all retention metrics, however, increased with increasing time scale. A review of studies addressing temporal variation of nutrient retention at different time scales supports this finding, indicating increasing variability of nutrient retention with concomitant increases in the variability of environmental factors from the diurnal to the interannual scale. Overall, this study emphasizes the significance of local climate conditions in regulating nutrient retention and points to potential effects of changes in land use and climate regimes on the functioning of stream ecosystems.
3658804|Estuaries and coastal wetlands are critical transition zones (CTZs) that link land, freshwater habitats, and the sea. CTZs provide essential ecological functions, including decomposition, nutrient cycling, and nutrient production, as well as regulation of fluxes of nutrients, water, particles, and organisms to and from land, rivers, and the ocean. Sediment-associated biota are integral to these functions. Functional groups considered essential to CTZ processes include heterotrophic bacteria and fungi, as well as many benthic invertebrates. Key invertebrate functions include shredding, which breaks down and recycles organic matter; suspension feeding, which collects and transports sediments across the sediment-water interface; and bioturbating, which moves sediment into or out of the seabed. In addition, macrophytes regulate many aspects of nutrient, particle, and organism dynamics above- and belowground. Animals moving within or through CTZs are vectors that transport nutrients and organic matter across terrestrial, freshwater, and marine interfaces. Significant threats to biodiversity within CTZs are posed by anthropogenic influences; eutrophication, nonnutrient pollutants, species invasions, overfishing, habitat alteration, and climate change affect species richness or composition in many coastal environments. Because biotic diversity in marine CTZ sediments is inherently low whereas their functional significance is great, shifts in diversity are likely to be particularly important. Species introductions (from invasion) or loss (from overfishing or habitat alteration) provide evidence that single-species changes can have overt, sweeping effects on CTZ structure and function. Certain species may be critically important to the maintenance of ecosystem functions in CTZs even though at present there is limited empirical evidence that the number of species in CTZ sediments is critical. We hypothesized that diversity is indeed important to ecosystem function in marine CTZs because high diversity maintains positive interactions among species (facilitation and mutualism), promoting stability and resistance to invasion or other forms of disturbance. The complexity of interactions among species and feedbacks with ecosystem functions suggests that comparative (mensurative) and manipulative approaches will be required to elucidate the role of diversity in sustaining CTZ functions.
40296384|Climate warming and major land-use changes have profoundly affected the Mongolian landscape in the past several decades. Previous studies have recognized the impacts of a warmer, more arid climate and Mongolia's 1991 transition from a command to a market economy on terrestrial ecosystems, including impaired sustainability of subsistence herding and threats to wild animals. In this study, we examined the combined effects of changing climate and herding practices on lake eutrophication in Western Mongolia. We sampled 65 lakes for modern nutrients and found the majority of lakes were eutrophic to hyper-eutrophic. Sediment cores were taken from five of the lakes to compare current lake status to paleolimnologial measures of lake eutrophication over the past 100-2000 years, including changes in diatom assemblages, diatom-inferred total phosphorus, biogenic silica, organic matter, and sediment accumulation rates. Variance partitioning analysis showed that recent shifts in diatom assemblages were related to changes in both climate and herding practices. The results presented here demonstrate a need for further study and long-term monitoring of water quality in Mongolia to understand the complicated interactions of climate and land use on aquatic resources and to preserve water quality in this remote and ecologically important region.
3658863|This article introduces and summarizes the foundations of network environ analysis and describes four primary properties resulting from this research. These properties-dominance of indirect effects (Higashi and Patten 1986), network amplification (Patten and others 1990), network homogenization (Patten and others 1990), and network synergism (Patten 1991)-provide insight into the behavior of holistic network interactions. In short, amplification, homogenization, and indirect effects demonstrate the influence of the indirect flows in a system to show that energy or matter cycling allows flow to return to the same component many times and tend to become evenly distributed within the network. Synergism relates direct and indirect, qualitative relations to show that network organization is, on the whole, more mutualistic than is apparent from direct interactions alone. Using network analysis, objects can be studied as part of a connected system and the indirect effects can be identified and quantified. This is a fundamentally different way of investigating ecosystems, and it gives a quantitative foundation to the widely held perception of the interconnectedness of nature.
40296389|The anthropogenic spread of exotic ecosystem engineers profoundly impacts native ecosystems. Exotic earthworms were shown to alter plant community composition of the understory of deciduous forests previously devoid of earthworms. We investigated the effect of two exotic earthworm species (Lumbricus terrestris L. and Octolasion tyrtae um Savigny) belonging to different ecological groups (anecic and endogeic) on the emergence of plants from the seed bank of a northern North American deciduous forest using the seedling emergence method. We hypothesized that (1) exotic earthworms change the seedling emergence from the plant seed bank, (2) L. terrestris increases the emergence of plant seedlings of the deeper soil layer but decreases that of the upper soil layer due to plant seed burial, and (3) 0. tyrtaeum decreases plant seedling emergence due the damage of plant seeds. Indeed, exotic earthworms altered the emergence of plant seedlings from the seed bank and the functional composition of the established plant seedlings. Surprisingly, although L. terrestris only marginally affected seedling emergence, 0. tyrtaeum changed the emergence of native plant species from the seed bank considerably. In particular, the number of emerging grass and herb seedlings were increased in the presence of 0. tyrtaeum in both soil layers. Moreover, the impacts of earthworms depended on the identity of plant functional groups; herb species benefited, whereas legumes suffered from the presence of exotic earthworms. The results highlight the strong effect of invasive belowground ecosystem engineers on aboveground ecosystem characteristics and suggest fundamental changes of ecosystems by humanspread earthworm species.
25470379|Detecting the early signs of stress is imperative for the conservation of natural ecosystems. They may, however, go unrecognized because ecosystems, when disturbed, may act as sinks that absorb the external impact without showing any evident changes. This seems to be the case of Lake Santo, a small water body located in a mountainous area of northern Italy. Tourism activity in this area began to develop in the early 1970s and grew continuously over the following 20 years. This activity caused a continually increasing nutrient load into the waters, but surprisingly the lake has remained oligo-mesotrophic, as it was before human pressure became a stressor to the lake. To anticipate possible severe damage to the ecosystem, we searched for early signs of stress by carrying out a retrospective analysis based on a whole-ecosystem approach using trophic flow networks. Ecosystem properties of the lake as calculated from network analysis for the disturbed (year 1991) and unimpacted (year 1973) configurations were compared, with the support of sensitivity analysis and statistical tests. We found evidence that in the period 1970-90 nutrient enrichment did change the course of normal development as the observed increase in system throughput was accompanied by a drop in the level of mutual organization of flows, which instead would be expected to increase during the natural progression of the ecosystem. The scenario that emerged from the comparison of system-level indices, cycling activity, trophic structure, and trophic efficiency indicates that the ecosystem has been subjected to stress. In particular, the type of disturbance corresponds to a quantitative definition of eutrophication.
25053872|The reduction-oxidation (redox) state of peatland pore waters plays an important role in many peatland biogeochemical processes. Recent research has also shown that the interface between ecosystems, or the ecotone, may be responsible for a disproportionate amount of biogeochemical activity when material and/or energy is hydrologically transported between ecosystems. The purpose of this research was to examine the spatiotemporal dynamics of redox conditions across two geomorphically distinct Boreal Precambrian Shield upland-peatland ecotones to determine the spatial and temporal scales at which these ecotones may be important. Pore water chemistry of iron and sulphur species was monitored across two upland-peatland ecotones in northwestern Ontario in conjunction with hydrological measurements under both stormflow and nonstormflow conditions. In addition, one upland-peatland ecotone was instrumented to make continuous measurements of in situ redox potential (Eh) over a 12-day period to determine whether measurements at a high temporal scale could provide additional insights into the transfer of nutrients across the upland-peatland interface. Results indicated that hydrology-specifically, groundwater flowpath and the strength of the hydrological connection between upland and peatland-determined the spatial extent of the ecotone as a biogeochemical hotspot. In situ Eh measurements showed that these ecotones may be most important over a scale of only several hours and are largely affected by lateral hydrological flows from the upland. The role of both hot spots and hot moments in biogeochemistry must be considered to accurately estimate the ability of a single ecosystem to process chemical inputs.
40296375|This article examines how alternative rural funding scenarios might influence the pattern of functional land types in mountain areas. The study aims were to explore the use of stakeholders to predict landscape change and to provide a future policy context for other papers in the Carbomont program. EU rural funding policies could have a strong influence on land use and landscapes in mountain areas. At eight sites across Europe, groups of local stakeholders were asked to compare the possible effects of three contrasting funding scenarios over an imagined period of 20 years on (1) the importance of the main landuse sectors; (2) the areas of the main land functional land types; and (3) the management of individual land types. Stakeholders also listed their interests in the area to help define the perspective of the group. The protocols used were ranking and scoring procedures that permitted quantification of changes and of the degree of consensus within the group. The scenarios were (1) continuation of current rural funding (status quo), (2) rapid reduction of farm income support (reduce support), and (3) increasing rural diversification funding (diversification). The eight countries sampled included five established EU members (UK, Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain), two new accession members (Czeck Republic and Slovakia), and Switzerland. There were predicted to be widespread reductions in the importance of the agricultural sector across Europe and increases in the transport, built environment, and tourism sectors. In general, the status quo scenario was perceived to be unsatisfactory in various respects, reduce support was worse, but diversification offered opportunities for conservation and development of mountain communities and land use. Changes in the areas of land types would mainly involve loss of arable and grazing land and increases in scrub, and settlements. Some elements of the landscape such as most forests, mountain tops, and wetlands would, however, be little affected by any of the scenarios.
41505914|Biological soil crusts (BSCs) are a key biotic component of dryland ecosystems worldwide. However, most studies carried out to date on carbon (C) fluxes in these ecosystems, such as soil respiration, have neglected them. We conducted a 3.5-year field experiment to evaluate the spatio-temporal heterogeneity of soil respiration in a semiarid Stipatenacissima steppe and to assess the contribution of BSC-dominated areas to the annual soil respiration of the whole ecosystem. We selected the six most frequent microsites in the study area: Stipa tussocks (ST), Retama sphaerocarpa shrubs (RS), and open areas with very low (< 5% BSC cover, BS), low, medium and high cover of well-developed BSCs. Soil respiration rates did not differ among BSCdominated microsites but were significantly higher and lower than those found in BS and ST microsites, respectively. A model using soil temperature and soil moisture accounted for over 85% of the temporal variation in soil respiration throughout the studied period. Using this model, we estimated a range of 240.4-322.6 g C m y released by soil respiration at our study area. Vegetated (ST and RS) and BSC-dominated microsites accounted for 37 and 42% of this amount, respectively. Our results indicate that accounting for the spatial heterogeneity in soil respiration induced by BSCs is crucial to provide accurate estimations of this flux at the ecosystem level. They also highlight that BSC-dominated areas are the main contributor to the total C released by soil respiration and, therefore, must be considered when estimating C budgets in drylands.
27823721|Ecosystem patterns and disturbance processes at one spatial scale often interact with processes at another scale, and the result of such cross-scale interactions can be nonlinear dynamics with thresholds. Examples of cross-scale pattern-process relationships and interactions among forest dieback, fire, and erosion are illustrated from northern New Mexico (USA) landscapes, where long-term studies have recently documented all of these disturbance processes. For example, environmental stress, operating on individual trees, can cause tree death that is amplified by insect mortality agents to propagate to patch and then landscape or even regional-scale forest dieback. Severe drought and unusual warmth in the southwestern USA since the late 1990s apparently exceeded species-specific physiological thresholds for multiple tree species, resulting in substantial vegetation mortality across millions of hectares of woodlands and forests in recent years. Predictions of forest dieback across spatial scales are constrained by uncertainties associated with: limited knowledge of species-specific physiological thresholds; individual and site-specific variation in these mortality thresholds; and positive feedback loops between rapidly-responding insect herbivore populations and their stressed plant hosts, sometimes resulting in nonlinear "pest" outbreak dynamics. Fire behavior also exhibits nonlinearities across spatial scales, illustrated by changes in historic fire regimes where patch-scale grazing disturbance led to regional-scale collapse of surface fire activity and subsequent recent increases in the scale of extreme fire events in New Mexico. Vegetation dieback interacts with fire activity by modifying fuel amounts and configurations at multiple spatial scales. Runoff and erosion processes are also subject to scale-dependent threshold behaviors, exemplified by ecohydrological work in semiarid New Mexico watersheds showing how declines in ground surface cover lead to non-linear increases in bare patch connectivity and thereby accelerated runoff and erosion at hillslope and watershed scales. Vegetation dieback, grazing, and fire can change land surface properties and cross-scale hydrologic connectivities, directly altering ecohydrological patterns of runoff and erosion. The interactions among disturbance processes across spatial scales can be key drivers in ecosystem dynamics, as illustrated by these studies of recent landscape changes in northern New Mexico. To better anticipate and mitigate accelerating human impacts to the planetary ecosystem at all spatial scales, improvements are needed in our conceptual and quantitative understanding of cross-scale interactions among disturbance processes.
3658669|EcoSim II uses results from the Ecopath procedure for trophic mass-balance analysis to define biomass dynamics models for predicting temporal change in exploited ecosystems. Key populations can be represented in further detail by using delay-difference models to account for both biomass and numbers dynamics. A major problem revealed by linking the population and biomass dynamics models is in representation of population responses to changes in food supply; simple proportional growth and reproductive responses lead to unrealistic predictions of changes in mean body size with changes in fishing mortality. EcoSim II allows users to specify life history mechanisms to avoid such unrealistic predictions: animals may translate changes in feeding rate into changes in reproductive rather than growth rates, or they may translate changes in food availability into changes in foraging time that in turn affects predation risk. These options, along with model relationships for limits on prey availability caused by predation avoidance tactics, tend to cause strong compensatory responses in modeled populations. It is likely that such compensatory responses are responsible for our inability to find obvious correlations between interacting trophic components in fisheries time-series data. But Ecosim II does not just predict strong compensatory responses: it also suggests that large piscivores may be vulnerable to delayed recruitment collapses caused by increases in prey species that are in turn competitors/predators of juvenile piscivores.
3658628|We report on the effect of lake size, water transparency, and wind on the frequency of transient nearsurface thermoclines in 39 boreal lakes from the Experimental Lakes Area (ELA) and Northwest Ontario Lake Size Series (NOLSS). This study was based on more than 3000 archived temperature profiles amassed over a 25-year period for lakes ranging from 2 ha to 8 million ha in surface area. The incidence of transient thermoclines decreased with increasing lake size from 90% of all summer days in small lakes (less than 4 ha) to 40% or less in the larger NOLSS lakes (up to 34,700 ha). No transient near-surface thermoclines were detected in Lake Superior. Forest fires and climatic variability were also found to affect the frequency of nearsurface thermoclines. Long-term trends indicate an increase in average annual wind velocity in the area, possibly as the result of extensive forest fires and clearcutting. The subsequent decrease in the frequency of shallow secondary thermoclines in aquatic ecosystems has possible consequences for the lake biota, as the result of changes in radiation, turbulence, and the nutrient regime.
27823695|Efforts to improve models of terrestrial productivity and to understand the function of tropical forests in global carbon cycles require a mechanistic understanding of spatial variation in aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) across tropical landscapes. To help derive such an understanding for Borneo, we monitored aboveground fine litterfall, woody biomass increment and ANPP (their sum) in mature forest over 29 months across a soil nutrient gradient in southwestern Kalimantan. In 30 (0.07 ha) plots stratified throughout the watershed (340 ha, 8190 m a.s.l.), we measured productivity and tested its relationship with 27 soil parameters. ANPP across the study area was among the highest reported for mature lowland tropical forests. Aboveground fine litterfall ranged from 5.1 to 11.0 Mg ha1 year1 and averaged 7.7  0.4 (mean  95 C.I.). Woody biomass increment ranged from 5.8 to 23.6 Mg ha1 year1 and averaged 12.0  2.0. Growth of large trees (60 cm dbh) contributed 3882% of plot-wide biomass increment and explained 92% of variation among plots. ANPP, the sum of these parameters, ranged from 11.1 to 32.3 Mg ha1 year1 and averaged 19.7  2.2. ANPP was weakly related to fine literfall (r2 = 0.176), but strongly related to growth of large trees at least 60 cm dbh (r2 = 0.848). Adjusted ANPP after accounting for apparent "mature forest bias" in our sampling method was 17.5  1.2 Mg ha1 year1. Relating productivity measures to soil parameters showed that spatial patterning in productivity was significantly related to soil nutrients, especially phosphorus (P). Fine litterfall increased strongly with extractable P (r2 = 0.646), but reached an asymptote at moderate P levels, whereas biomass increment (r2 = 0.473) and ANPP (r2 = 0.603) increased linearly across the gradient. Biomass increment of large trees was more frequently and strongly related to nutrients than small trees, suggesting size dependency of tree growth on nutrients. Multiple linear regression confirmed the leading importance of soil P, and identified Ca as a potential co-limiting factor. Our findings strongly suggest that (1) soil nutrients, especially P, limit aboveground productivity in lowland Bornean forests, and (2) these forests play an important, but changing role in carbon cycles, as canopy tree logging alters these terrestrial carbon sinks.
41413044|Soil respiration (R s ) is known to be highly sensitive to different environmental factors, such as temperature, precipitation, and the soil carbon (C) pool. Thus, the scenario of global change expected for the coming decades might imply important consequences for R s dynamics. In addition, all of these factors may have an interactive effect, and the consequences are often confounded. We performed a field experiment to analyze the effect of soil moisture and habitat type on R s in a Mediterranean-type ecosystem by simulating three possible climate scenarios differing in the precipitation amount during summer (drier, wetter, and current precipitation pattern) in the main successional habitats in the area (forest, shrubland, and open habitat). We also considered other factors that would affect R s , such as the soil C pool and microbial biomass. By the use of structural-equation modeling (SEM), we disentangled the interactive effects of the different factors affecting R s . A higher simulated precipitation boosted R s for the different habitats across the sampling period (14.6% higher respect to control), whereas the more severe simulated drought reduced it (19.2% lower respect to control), a trend that was similar at the daily scale. Temperature had, by contrast, scant effects on R s . The SEM analysis revealed a positive effect of moisture and canopy cover on R s , whereas the effect of temperature was weaker and negative. Soil C pool and microbial biomass did not affect R s . We conclude that the precipitation changes expected for the coming decades would play a more important role in controlling R s than would other factors. Thus, the projected changes in the precipitation pattern may have much more profound direct effects on R s than will the projected temperature increases.
40603666|A terrestrial ecosystem model, called the Vegetation Integrative Simulator for Trace gases model (VISIT), which fully integrates biogeochemical carbon and nitrogen cycles, was developed to simulate atmosphere-ecosystem exchanges of greenhouse gases (CO , CH, and NO), and to determine the global warming potential (GWP) taking into account the radiative forcing effect of each gas. The model was then applied to a cool-temperate deciduous broadleaved forest in Takayama, central Japan (36 08 /N, 137 25' E, 1420 m above sea level). Simulations were conducted at a daily time step from 1948 to 2008, using time-series meteorological and nitrogen deposition data. VISIT accurately captured the carbon and nitrogen cycles of this typical Japanese forest, as validated by tower and chamber flux measurements. During the last 10 years of the simulation, the model estimated that the forest was a net greenhouse gas sink, having a GWP equivalent of 1025.7 g CO m y, most of which (1016.9 g CO m y) was accounted for by net CO sequestration into forest biomass regrowth. CH oxidation by the forest soil made a small contribution to the net sink (11.9 g CO -eq. m y), whereas NO emissions were a very small source (3.2 g CO -eq. m y), as expected for a volcanic soil in a humid climate. Analysis of the sensitivity of GWP to changes in temperature, precipitation, and nitrogen deposition indicated that warming temperatures would decrease the size of the sink, mainly as a result of increased CO release due to increased ecosystem respiration.
27823681|Wildfire can influence a variety of stream ecosystem properties. We studied stream temperatures in relation to wildfire in small streams in the Boise River Basin, located in central Idaho, USA. To examine the spatio-temporal aspects of temperature in relation to wildfire, we employed three approaches: a prepost fire comparison of temperatures between two sites (one from a burned stream and one unburned) over 13 years, a short-term (3 year) prepost fire comparison of a burned and unburned stream with spatially extensive data, and a short-term (1 year) comparative study of spatial variability in temperatures using a "space for time" substitutive design across 90 sites in nine streams (retrospective comparative study). The latter design included streams with a history of stand-replacing wildfire and streams with severe post-fire reorganization of channels due to debris flows and flooding. Results from these three studies indicated that summer maximum water temperatures can remain significantly elevated for at least a decade following wildfire, particularly in streams with severe channel reorganization. In the retrospective comparative study we investigated occurrence of native rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and tailed frog larvae (Ascaphus montanus) in relation to maximum stream temperatures during summer. Both occurred in nearly every site sampled, but tailed frog larvae were found in much warmer water than previously reported in the field (26.6C maximum summer temperature). Our results show that physical stream habitats can remain altered (for example, increased temperature) for many years following wildfire, but that native aquatic vertebrates can be resilient. In a management context, this suggests wildfire may be less of a threat to native species than human influences that alter the capacity of stream-living vertebrates to persist in the face of natural disturbance.
3658822| Community-wide feeding interrelationships in a low-diversity coral reef off the Pacific coast of Panam (Uva Island reef) demonstrate complex pathways involving herbivore, strong corallivore, and carnivore interactions. Four trophic levels with 31 interguild links are identified in a generalized food web, and documented feeding interrelationships with 287+ species links are portrayed in a coral-corallivore subweb. The importance of trophic groups changes greatly with time, from unknown causes over annual to decadal-scale periods, and during very strong El Nio-Southern Oscillation events such that intermittent intense herbivory by echinoids (Diadema) and corallivory by gastropod mollusks, the crown-of-thorns sea star Acanthaster, hermit crabs, and fishes result in high levels of coral mortality and bioerosion of reef substratum. Intraregional differences in species composition and abundances affecting food-web interactions are briefly described for nonupwelling (Uva Island) and upwelling areas (Pearl Islands) in Panam. Seasonal upwelling in the Pearl Islands results in high plankton productivity, which likely augments production in invertebrates, fishes, marine mammals, and seabirds, but these pathways still remain largely unquantified. The corallivore Acanthaster is absent from upwelling centers in Panam and from upwelling and nonupwelling areas in the southern and central Galpagos Islands, and the highly destructive, facultative corallivore Eucidaris galapagensis occurs only in the latter offshore islands and at Cocos Island. Relatively recent declines in the abundances of manta rays, sharks, and spiny lobsters are correlated with, but not necessarily causally linked to, increasing fishing activities in the late 1970s to early 1980s. The extent to which the complex yet highly unstable Uva Island food web is representative of other eastern Pacific coral reef ecosystems remains to be investigated. 
40603615|We model effects of interspecific plant competition, herbivory, and a plant's toxic defenses against herbivores on vegetation dynamics. The model predicts that, when a generalist herbivore feeds in the absence of plant toxins, adaptive foraging generally increases the probability of coexistence of plant species populations, because the herbivore switches more of its effort to whichever plant species is more common and accessible. In contrast, toxin-determined selective herbivory can drive plant succession toward dominance by the more toxic species, as previously documented in boreal forests and prairies. When the toxin concentrations in different plant species are similar, but species have different toxins with nonadditive effects, herbivores tend to diversify foraging efforts to avoid high intakes of any one toxin. This diversification leads the herbivore to focus more feeding on the less common plant species. Thus, uncommon plants may experience depensatory mortality from herbivory, reducing local species diversity. The depensatory effect of herbivory may inhibit the invasion of other plant species that are more palatable or have different toxins. These predictions were tested and confirmed in the Alaskan boreal forest.
23253731|Cultivation and cropping are major causes of destruction and degradation of natural ecosystems throughout the world. We face the challenge of maintaining provisioning services while conserving or enhancing other ecosystem services and biodiversity in agricultural landscapes. There is a range of possibilities within two types of intervention, namely "land sharing" and "land separation"; the former advocates the enhancement of the farmed environment, but the latter a separation between land designated for farming versus conservation. Land sharing may involve biodiversity-based agricultural practices, learning from traditional farming, changing from conventional to organic agriculture and from "simple" crops and pastures to agro-forestry systems, and restoring or creating specific elements to benefit wildlife and particular services without decreasing agricultural production. Land separation in the farmland context involves restoring or creating non-farmland habitat at the expense of field-level agricultural productionfor example, woodland on arable land. Restoration by land sharing has the potential to enhance agricultural production, other ecosystem services and biodiversity at both the field and landscape scale; however, restoration by land separation would provide these benefits only at the landscape scale. Although recent debate has contrasted these approaches, we suggest they should be used in combination to maximize benefits. Furthermore, we suggest "woodland islets", an intermediate approach between land abandonment and farmland afforestation, for ecological restoration in extensive agricultural landscapes. This approach allows reconciliation of farmland production, conservation of values linked to cultural landscapes, enhancement of biodiversity, and provision of a range of ecosystem services. Beyond academic research, restoration projects within agricultural landscapes are essential if we want to halt environmental degradation and biodiversity loss.
3658922|The native tree Metrosideros polymorpha dominates Hawaiian forests across a very wide range of soil fertility, including both sites where forest production is limited by nitrogen (N) and others where it is limited by phosphorus (P). Five long-term fertilization experiments have further broadened the range of nutrient availabilities experienced by Metrosideros. Adding P to P-limited sites increased foliar P concentrations threefold and litter P concentrations up to 10-fold; lignin concentrations decreased, and the decomposability of leaf litter increased from 32%-35% to 36%-46% mass loss in the first year. Adding N to N-limited sites increased leaf and litter N concentrations by only 15%-20%, with little or no effect on the decomposability of tissue.
40928208|Carbon sequestration in soils that have previously been depleted of organic matter due to agriculture is an important component of global strategies to mitigate rising atmospheric CO concentrations. Extensive areas of low productivity farmland have been abandoned from agriculture in eastern North America and elsewhere over the past century, and are naturally regenerating to temperate forests. We investigated the soil carbon sequestration potential of such lands by sampling adjacent mature forest and agricultural field sites, and replicated chronosequences of forest succession on Podzol, Brunisol, and Luvisol soil types that are considered 'marginal' for agriculture and have been abandoned extensively across southeastern Ontario, Canada. Total soil organic carbon and nitrogen stocks to 10 cm depth were approximately 32% and 18% lower, respectively, in agricultural fields compared to mature forests. Furthermore, carbon stocks across our 100-year chronosequences increased most within the 0-5 cm soil depth interval, tended to increase within the 5-10 cm interval, and were unaltered within the 10-20 cm interval. Soil type had little effect on the potential magnitude or rates of soil carbon sequestration (~ 10 g C m y in the top 10 cm), perhaps because all sites shared a common vegetation successional pattern. Finally, our investigations of the 'labile' free-light carbon and nitrogen fractions in the Brunisol soil type indicated no increases across the chronosequence, implying that soil carbon accumulation was primarily in more recalcitrant pools. Our results indicate that each of these low productivity soil types can be moderate carbon sinks for a century following agricultural abandonment, and strongly suggest that time since abandonment is more important than soil type in determining the potential magnitude of carbon sequestration within this climatic region.
23501471|Water redistribution from bare soil to vegetation patches is a key feature of semi-arid ecosystems, and is responsible for their patchy vegetation patterns. The magnitude of water redistribution depends on the properties of the bare soil (which determine the amount of water run-off) and the capacity of vegetation patches to trap water run-on. We examined the relationships between plant spatial patterns, water infiltration into bare soil, and plant community composition in semi-arid sites with different hydro-physical properties (silty and gypseous soils) in NE Spain. We also studied the effect of two stressors, aridity and grazing, on water infiltration and plant spatial patterns. Our results indicate a negative correlation of bare soil sorptivity (the capacity to absorb water by capillarity) and vegetation aggregation. There was a strong positive correlation between perennial grass cover and the spatial aggregation of vegetation, but aggregation was not associated with positive associations of different plant types. The aggregation of vegetation was positively correlated with species richness and the overall extent of vegetation cover. Grazing reduced water infiltration into silty soils, which are prone to compaction. In contrast, soil crust affected the hydrology of gypseous soils, especially in the most arid sites, where grazing increased infiltration, reducing surface sealing due to breaking of the soil crust. Together, our results suggest that biotic and abiotic factors affect the hydro-physical properties of soils in the semi-arid ecosystems of NE Spain, which is linked to the plant communities through the spatial distribution of plants.
23253693|Over the last three decades, increased temperatures and reduced annual precipitation have resulted in significant changes in several Central European deciduous forests. These effects include changes in soil moisture content and detritus production. Within the framework of a detritus manipulation experiment carried out in an old-growth Quercetum petraeacerris community, we examined how changes in detritus inputs affect soil moisture content and microbial activity within six treatments. CO 2 release and microbial enzyme activities are known to be highly sensitive to environmental factors such as soil moisture and detritus inputs. We applied three detritus removal (No Litter, No Roots and No Input) and two detritus addition (Double Litter and Double Wood) treatments. Although the plots received the same amount of precipitation, the various detritus inputs caused significant differences in soil moisture. Treatments excluding living roots had the highest moisture levels, while the treatment excluding only aboveground detritus inputs had the lowest. CO 2 release, arylsulphatase activity and saccharase activity showed significant seasonal differences with the highest values occurring in spring. Moisture content had a significant positive correlation with CO 2 release, and enzyme activities of the plots were affected by the quantity and quality of detritus inputs. Arylsulphatase activity showed the strongest correlation with soil moisture content (R = 0.62 in the control plot) followed by CO 2 release (R = 0.61) and finally saccharase activity (R = 0.42). We observed that there was a remarkably weaker correlation between soil moisture content and the three parameters in the detritus removal treatments (R values between 0.56 and 0.13) than in the Control and detritus addition treatments (R values between 0.72 and 0.42). The correlation between the three parameters of interest and soil moisture content weakens considerably under drought conditions relative to the optimal moisture range of soil moisture content for microbial activity. If the amount of precipitation in the area continues to decrease as anticipated, then litter production and soil microbial activity may be reduced.
27823701|Fynbos is the main vegetation of the Cape Floristic Region, a biodiversity hotspot that occurs in southwestern South Africa. A major question concerning the fynbos ecosystem is how it supports abundant and diverse vegetation on soils derived from nutrient-poor bedrock. In addition to marine aerosols (recycled sea salts), geochemical analyses reported here suggest that dust (aeolian) deposition represents a significant source of nutrients (for example, K, Ca and Zn) to the fynbos ecosystem. Headwater portions of the Boontjies River subcatchment near the Cederberg Mountains support mountain fynbos communities that are entirely underlain by the Peninsula Formation, a quartz arenite with greater than 98 wt% SiO2. Fynbos soils in these areas are composed of quartzose sand with 36 wt% kaolinitic clay and 12 wt% organic carbon. The minor amount of feldspar and mica minerals in the bedrock (0.5 wt% Al2O3) suggests an aeolian source for much of the clay minerals in the soil. The isotope composition of soluble Pb and Sr from fynbos vegetation and soils indicates a mixture of anthropogenic and terrigenous sources, most likely from washout of combusted petrol and dust from the arid interior particularly in association with Berg Wind events. Approximate mass balance calculations indicate that washout of aerosols provides an important source of nutrients such as Ca, K, P, Fe, Mn and Zn which the fynbos ecosystem is highly effective in retaining.
27823686|Sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.)-dominated northern hardwood forests of the Great Lakes Region commonly receive elevated levels of atmospheric nitrate (NO3) deposition, which can alter belowground carbon (C) cycling. Past research has demonstrated that chronic experimental NO3 deposition (3 g N m2 y1 above ambient) elicits a threefold increase in the leaching loss of dissolved organic carbon (DOC). Here, we used DOC collected from tension-cup lysimeters to test whether increased DOC export under experimental NO3 deposition originated from forest floor or mineral soil organic matter (SOM). We used DOC radiocarbon dating to quantify C sources and colorimetric assays to measure DOC aromaticity and soluble polyphenolic content. Our results demonstrated that DOC exports are primarily derived from new C (<50-years-old) in the forest floor under both ambient and experimental NO3 deposition. Experimental NO3 deposition increased soluble polyphenolic content from 25.03  4.26 to 49.19  4.23 g phenolic C mg DOC1, and increased total aromatic content as measured by specific UV absorbance. However, ncreased aromatic compounds represented a small fraction (<10%) of the total observed increased DOC leaching. In combination, these findings suggest that experimental NO3 deposition has altered the production or retention as well as phenolic content of DOC formed in forest floor, however exact mechanisms are uncertain. Further elucidation of the mechanism(s) controlling enhanced DOC leaching is important for understanding long-term responses of Great Lakes forests to anthropogenic N deposition and the consequences of those responses for aquatic ecosystems.
27823704|Headwater streams are key sites of nutrient and organic matter processing and retention, but little is known about temporal variability in gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER) rates as a result of the short duration of most metabolism measurements in lotic ecosystems. We examined temporal variability and controls on ecosystem metabolism by measuring daily rates continuously for 2 years in Walker Branch, a first-order deciduous forest stream. Four important scales of temporal variability in ecosystem metabolism rates were identified: (1) seasonal, (2) day-to-day, (3) episodic (storm-related), and (4) inter-annual. Seasonal patterns were largely controlled by the leaf phenology and productivity of the deciduous riparian forest. Walker Branch was strongly net heterotrophic throughout the year with the exception of the open-canopy spring when GPP and ER rates were co-equal. Day-to-day variability in weather conditions influenced light reaching the streambed, resulting in high day-to-day variability in GPP particularly during spring (daily light levels explained 84% of the variance in daily GPP in April). Episodic storms depressed GPP for several days in spring, but increased GPP in autumn by removing leaves shading the stream-bed. Storms depressed ER initially, but then stimulated ER to 23 times pre-storm levels for several days. Walker Branch was strongly net heterotrophic in both years of the study, with annual GPP being similar (488 and 519 g O2 m2 y1 or 183 and 195 g C m2 y1) but annual ER being higher in 2004 than 2005 (1,645 vs. 1,292 g O2 m2 y1 or 617 and 485 g C m2 y1). Inter-annual variability in ecosystem metabolism (assessed by comparing 2004 and 2005 rates with previous measurements) was the result of the storm frequency and timing and the size of the spring macroalgal bloom. Changes in local climate can have substantial impacts on stream ecosystem metabolism rates and ultimately influence the carbon source and sink properties of these important ecosystems.
3658954|General circulation models (GCM) predict that increasing levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
27823665|High-latitude, shelf Antarctic benthic communities are highly diversified and structured, dominated by benthic suspension feeders, and are subject to major natural disturbances. This study focuses on spatial patterns of the Antarctic benthos emphasizing the succession process after iceberg disturbance. For this purpose, underwater photographs (1 m2 each) from the southeastern Weddell Sea shelf (<300 m depth) were analyzed using techniques from the field of landscape ecology. Here, we examine measurements of spatial patterns (landscape indices) to describe changes in structural patterns along successional stages on these Antarctic benthic communities. We show a gradual separation from the early to older stages of succession based on sessile benthic cover area, size, shape, diversity, and interspersion and juxtaposition indices. Conceptually, the results describe a gradient from samples belonging to first stages of recovery with low cover area, low complexity of patch shape, small patch size, low diversity and patches poorly interspersed to samples from later stages with higher values of these indices. Cover area was the best predictor of recovery. We conclude that a variety of factors affect the observed successional sequences of Antarctic shelf benthic communities after iceberg disturbance, including the existence and dispersal abilities of propagules, growth rates, and competition between species. Overall, changes in the magnitude, frequency, and duration of disturbance regimes and alterations of ecosystem resilience pose major challenges for conservation of Antarctic benthos.
25470399|Dreissenid mussels (the zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha and the quagga mussel D. bugensis) are ecosystem engineers that modify the physical environment by increasing light penetration. Such a change is likely to affect the distribution and diversity of submerged macrophytes. Filter-feeding by these mussels has been associated with increased water clarity in many North American and European lakes. In this study, we report the increase in water clarity of Oneida Lake, New York, USA, for 1975-2002 and argue that the increase was caused by zebra mussel invasion rather than declines in nutrients. Over the study period, although mean total phosphorus decreased significantly, the main increase in water clarity occurred after the zebra mussel invasion in 1991. The average depth receiving 1% surface light increased from 6.7 m to 7.8 m after the invasion of zebra mussels, representing a 23% areal expansion. The maximum depth of macrophyte colonization, as measured by diver and hydroacoustic surveys, increased from 3.0 m before the invasion of zebra mussels to 5.1 m after their establishment. In addition, macrophyte species richness increased, the frequency of occurrence increased for most species, and the composition of the macrophyte community changed from low-light-tolerant species to those tolerating a wide range of light conditions. Comparisons with observations reported in the literature indicate that increased light penetration alone could explain these changes in macrophyte distribution and diversity. Such changes will increase the importance of benthic primary production over pelagic production in the food web, thereby representing an overall alteration of ecosystem function, a process we refer to as "benthification".
40296351|Coarse woody debris (CWD) volume and diversity are vital attributes of forest ecosystems. However, despite their importance, their long-term dynamics associated with fire- or logging-origin and over-story type have not been examined in boreal forest. We hypothesize that (1) CWD compositional diversity increases with stand development whereas CWD volume follows a U-shaped pattern. Furthermore, we attempted to test if (2) CWD volume and compositional diversity converge for postlogged and postfire stands through stand development, and (3) mixedwoods have more CWD volume and greater compositional diversity than conifer or broadleaf overstory types. We sampled 72 stands ranging in age from 7 to 201 years in fire-origin stands and 731 years in managed stands with conifer, mixedwood, and broadleaf overstory types in central boreal Canada. For fire-origin stands, snag volume was 100-260 m/ha in 7-year-old stands, 520 m/ha in 25-year-old stands, and 2560 m/ha in older stands; downed woody debris (DWD) volume decreased from 7 to 7290 year-old stands, increased in 124-to 139-year-old stands, then either decreased or increased in 201-year-old stands depending on overstory type. CWD diversity increased from 25 to 124139 year-old and plateaued, but in 7-year-old stands, CWD diversity was as high as that in the 124 and up year-old age classes. Logging resulted in a smaller amount and lower size variability of CWD in 7-year-old stands, with a larger portion being fast-decomposing Betula papyrifera. Most CWD characteristics had not converged by approximately 30 years since disturbance between the two stand origins. More diverse CWD occurred in mixedwoods, but conifer stands contained the greatest CWD volume except in 7 year-old postfire stands.
3658790|It is not possible to determine the causal relationship between fishkills and the toxic dinoflagellate Pfiesteria piscicida in the Neuse River Estuary, North Carolina, using observational data on these two variables alone. However, consideration of a third variable, indicating the presence of a broader class of more easily measured Pfiesteria-like organisms (PLOs), leads to causal model structures from which the nature of this relationship can be distinguished. We use reported field data to evaluate alternative models and find that the suggestion that toxic Pfiesteria cause fishkills is inconsistent with observation. The data are more indicative of a model in which PLOs (including potentially toxic Pfiesteria) are stimulated to become actively toxic by the presence of already dead or dying fish. Laboratory experiments performed to date do not provide evidence contradictory to this finding. However, neither can the existence of a common cause of both Pfiesteria toxicity and fishkills be ruled out. The differing implications for ecosystem management suggest that these causal associations should be further investigated through additional modeling and data collection efforts. Graphical methods of model construction and evaluation can assist in this process.
41505929|Various studies over the last 15 years have attempted to describe the processes of N retention, saturation and NO leaching in semi-natural ecosystems based on stable isotope studies. Forest ecologists and terrestrial biogeochemists have used N labelled NO and NH tracers to determine the fate of atmospheric deposition inputs of N to terrestrial ecosystems, with NO leaching to surface waters being a key output flux. Separate studies by aquatic ecologists have used similar isotope tracer methods to determine the fate and impacts of inorganic N species, leached from terrestrial ecosystems, on aquatic ecosystems, usually without reference to comparable terrestrial studies. A third group of isotopic studies has employed natural abundances of N and O in precipitation and surface water NO to determine the relative contributions of atmospheric and microbial sources. These three sets of results often appear to conflict with one another. Here we attempt to synthesize and reconcile the results of these differing approaches to identifying both the source and the fate of inorganic N in natural or semi-natural ecosystems, and identify future research priorities. We conclude that the results of different studies conform to a consistent conceptual model comprising: (1) rapid microbial turnover of atmospherically deposited NO at multiple biologically active locations within both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems; (2) maximum retention and accumulation of N in carbon-rich ecosystems and (3) maximum leaching of NO, most of which has been microbially cycled, from carbon-poor ecosystems exposed to elevated atmospheric N inputs.
25470364|In quantifying the carbon budget of the Amazon region, temporal estimates of the extent and age of regenerating tropical forests are fundamental. However, retrieving such information from remote-sensing data is difficult, largely because of spectral similarities between different successional stages and variations in the reflectance of forests following different pathways of regeneration. In this study, secondary-forest dynamics in Brazilian Amazonia were modeled for the 1978-2002 period to determine area and age on a grid basis. We modeled the area, age, and age class distribution of secondary forests using empirical relationships with the percentage of remaining primary forest, as determined from large-area remote-sensing campaigns (the Pathfinder and Prodes projects). The statistical models were calibrated using detailed maps of secondary-forest age generated for seven sites in the Brazilian Legal Amazon. The area-age distribution was then specified from mean age by a distribution assumption. Over the period 1978-2002, secondary-forest area was shown to have increased from 29,000 to 161,000 km (that is, by a factor of 5). The mean age increased from 4.4 to 4.8 years. We generated a time series of secondary-forest area fractions and successional stages that provides wall-to-wall coverage of the Brazilian Amazon at a spatial resolution of 0.1 decimal degrees (approximately 11 km). Validation against reference data yielded root mean squared errors of 8% of the total area for estimate of secondary-forest area and 2.4 years for mean secondary-forest age. Using this approach, we provide the first published update on the state of secondary forests in Amazonia since the early 1990s and a time series of secondary-forest area over the 25-year period.
3658996| In the southern boreal forest (Qubec, Canada), tree harvesting is a major disturbance affecting the dominant black spruce (Picea mariana) stands already suffering from naturally recurrent insect and fire disturbances. Although recovery of the spruce forest after an insect infestation or a fire is possible under current site conditions, it is less likely when both types of disturbance occur during a short period of time. The addition of yet another disturbance, such as tree harvesting, can thus have catastrophic consequences. We analyzed the impact of three successive disturbances-tree harvesting, insect infestation, and fire-on the regeneration of boreal spruce-moss forests within a period of approximately 50 years. The spruce forests were harvested in the 1940s and the 1950s. Recovery from the logging consisted of advance regeneration (spruce layers less than 1 m high that were left intact during clear-cuts), which was burned in 1991. The vegetation cover (mostly heath and lichen species) and soil conditions (acidic, nutrient-poor podzolic soils developed from coarse materials) of the postfire sites that we studied were similar. Stand structure and tree regeneration were documented from large quadrats (0.25 ha) using age, size, and tree ring data from postlogged and postfire spruce. At an early stage of development, the growing advance regeneration was damaged by insect defoliators in the late 1970s and the mid-1980s, and several trees died a few years before the 1991 fire. The successive disturbances considerably reduced the number of seed-bearers, leading to the collapse of postfire regeneration and a shift to parkland. Through a successional trajectory far from the expected trend for boreal forests influenced by single disturbance, the shift resulted in the formation of divergent plant communities. The development of divergent communities at the landscape scale is generally overlooked due to their small size. They indicate, however, the weak resilience of boreal forests faced with cascading perturbations, which are likely to increase in intensively logged areas. 
25053859|We assessed the long-term (16 years) effects of introducing piscivores (northern pike) into a small, boreal lake (Lake 221, Experimental Lakes Area) containing abundant populations of two planktivorous fish species. After the introduction, pearl dace were extirpated and yellow perch abundance was greatly reduced. Daphnia species shifted from D. galeata mendota to larger bodied Daphnia catawba, but the total zooplankton biomass did not increase, nor did the biomass of large grazers such as Daphnia. Phytoplankton biomass decreased after the northern pike introduction, but increased when northern pike were partially removed from the lake. Phosphorus (P) excretion by fish was 0.18 mg P
41413967|The influence of inland water bodies on the global carbon cycle and the great potential for long-term carbon burial in them is an important component of global limnology. We used paleolimnological methods to estimate changes in carbon burial rates through time in a suite of natural lakes in the US state of Iowa which has watersheds that have been heavily modified over the last 150 years. Our results show increasing carbon burial for all lakes in our study as agriculture intensified. Our estimates of carbon burial rates, before land clearance, are similar to the published worldwide averages for nutrient-poor lakes. In nearly all the cases, burial rates increased to very high levels (up to 200 g C my) following agricultural development. These results support the idea that the increased autochthonous and allochthonous carbon flux, related to anthropogenic change, leads to higher rates of carbon burial. Further, these results imply that the fraction of global carbon buried by lakes will be increasingly important in the future if worldwide trends in anthropogenic eutrophication continue.
3658988|To be able to estimate the cumulative carbon budget at broader scales, it is essential to understand net ecosystem exchanges (NEE) of carbon and water in various ages and types of ecosystems. Using eddy-covariance (EC) in Douglas-fir dominated forests in the Wind River Valley, Washington, USA, we measured NEE of carbon, water, and energy from July through September in a 40-year-old stand (40YR) in 1998, a 20-year-old stand (20YR) in 1999, and a 450-year-old stand (450YR) during both years. All three stands were net carbon sinks during the dry, warm summers, with mean net daily accumulation of
41505892|Fire is an important natural disturbance process in arid grasslands but current fire regimes are largely the result of both human and natural processes and their interactions. The collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 spurred substantial socioeconomic changes and was ultimately followed by a rapid increase in burned area in southern Russia. What is unclear is whether this increase in burned area was caused by decreasing livestock numbers, vegetation changes, climate change, or interactions of these factors. Our research goal was to identify the driving forces behind the increase in burned area in the arid grasslands of southern Russia. Our study area encompassed 19,000 km in the Republic of Kalmykia in southern Russia. We analyzed annual burned area from 1986 to 2006 as a function of livestock population, NDVI, precipitation, temperature, and broad-scale oscillation indices using best subset regressions and structural equation modeling. Our results supported the hypothesis that vegetation recovered within 5-6 years after the livestock declined in the beginning of the 1990s, to a point at which large fires could be sustained. Climate was an important explanatory factor for burning, but mainly after 1996 when lower livestock numbers allowed fuels to accumulate. Ultimately, our results highlight the complexity of coupled human-natural systems, and provide an example of how abrupt socioeconomic change may affect fire regimes.
3658643|Soils are dynamic components of terrestrial ecosystems that historically have been viewed as economic resources by government and private interests. The large-scale conversion of many sections of the United States to agriculture and urban land uses, combined with the growing awareness of the role of soils in global biogeochemistry and ecology, ultimately requires an assessment of the remaining distribution of undisturbed soils in the country. Here we conduct the first quantitative analysis of disturbed and undisturbed soil distribution in the USA using a GIS-based approach. We find that a sizable fraction (4.5%) of the nation's soils are in danger of substantial loss, or complete extinction, due to agriculture and urbanization. In the agricultural belt of the country, up to 80% of the soils that were naturally of low abundance are now severely impacted (greater than 50% conversion to agricultural/urban uses). Undisturbed soils provide ecosystem services that warrant their preservation, including a somewhat complex relationship with rare or endangered plants. The known and unknown attributes of undisturbed soils suggests the need for an integrated biogeodiversity perspective in landscape preservation efforts.
23325686|Forestry has been reported to cause elevated mercury (Hg) concentrations in runoff water. However, the degree to which forestry operations influence Hg in runoff varies among sites. A synoptic study, covering 54 catchments distributed all over Sweden, subjected to either stump harvest (SH), site preparation (SP) or no treatment (Ref), was undertaken to reveal the degree of forestry impact and causes of eventual variation. All streams were sampled twice, in autumn 2009 and summer 2010. There were no significant differences in total mercury (THg) and methylmercury (MeHg) concentrations between the three treatments in either 2009 or 2010. However, when pooling the treated catchments (that is, SH and SP) and taking catchment properties such as latitude into account, the treatment had a significant influence on the THg and MeHg concentrations. Although the treatment effect on THg and MeHg did not differ between SH and SP, the study did reveal significant forestry effects on potassium (K) and total nitrogen (TN) that were greater in the SH catchments and lower in the SP catchments. Partial least square (PLS) regressions indicated that organic matter was the most important variable influencing both the THg and MeHg concentrations. There were no significant differences between the treatment groups when comparing the ratios of THg/total organic carbon (TOC) and MeHg/TOC, suggesting that the high concentrations of THg and MeHg observed at some of the treated catchments are associated with increased concentrations of TOC rather than new methylation or increased mobilization caused by factors other than TOC.
40603417|Regional topography and climate variation yield differences in ecosystem attributes that make spatially scaled estimates of forest productivity challenging.Foliar nitrogen is a primary indicator of forest ecosystem productivity and is used in regional estimates of terrestrial productivity, but this characteristic has not been well described in the Central Appalachian region. Here we describe foliar and soil N variation among species and elevations at two spatial scales in the Central Appalachian region: (1) across the Elklick watershed in the Fernow Experimental Forest and (2) across the state of West Virginia.We found higher foliar N concentrations at both scales than those previously reported forotheremperate forest regions. Canopy and soil nitrogen concentrations were also much greater in the Fernow than generally observed across West Virginia.Soil N concentrations in the Fernow were two times greater than those observed across West Virginia. Species-related differences were observed at both spatial scales, but were not always consistent. Canopy N ranges are generally consistent across elevations throughout the state of West Virginia, but should be scaled according to species-related elevation effects for studies that estimate productivity differences in response to harvest or changing species composition. The incongruence of foliar and soil N concentrations at the Fernow Experimental Forest are not explained by elevation or species composition, but are likely a consequence of greater historical N and H + deposition relative to the surrounding West Virginia region.
3658644| The intraannual dynamics of particulate organic nitrogen (PON) and two fractions of dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) were investigated in two Rocky Mountain streams draining watersheds with low rates of N deposition. Organic nitrogen accounted for over 60% of the total annual nitrogen export and consisted mostly of DON. Nitrate peaked during winter months and declined considerably during the growing season (less than 10 g/L) suggesting the importance of biotic uptake. Concentrations of PON, total DON, and two DON fractions (humic and non-humic) peaked during spring runoff and were positively related to discharge, indicating hydrologic influence. Total DON and its two fractions showed significant inverse relationships to nitrate, indicating that DON and nitrate followed different intraannual patterns. Despite its seasonal fluctuations in concentration, PON showed a consistent carbon-nitrogen (C:N) ratio suggesting that it was relatively uniform in composition. Fractionation studies indicated that DON was primarily of nonhuman origin, whereas dissolved organic carbon (DOC) was mainly derived from humic sources. The two DON fractions differed from each other in seasonal patterns of concentration and C:N ratio. The proportion of humic DON increased during snowmelt, and there were diverging seasonal patterns in the C:N ratio of the two fractions implying variations in bioavailability. Although organic nitrogen is commonly treated as a single pool in ecological studies, our results indicated that DON consists of fractions that undergo large intraannual changes in proportions and chemical composition. Treatment of DON as a single pool may be misleading from the viewpoint of understanding ecosystem processes directly related to changes in its sources and biological reactivity. 
25470430|Nitrogen cycling in northern temperate forest ecosystems could change under increasing atmospheric CO and tropospheric O as a result of quantitative and qualitative changes in plant litter production. At the Aspen Free Air CO-O Enrichment (FACE) experiment, we previously found that greater substrate inputs to soil under elevated CO did not alter gross N transformation rates in the first 3 years of the experiment. We hypothesized that greater litter production under elevated CO would eventually cause greater gross N transformation rates and that CO effects would be nullified by elevated O. Following our original study, we continued measurement of gross N transformation rates for an additional four years. From 1999 to 2003, gross N mineralization doubled, N immobilization increased 4-fold, but changes in microbial biomass N and soil total N were not detected. We observed year-to-year variation in N transformation rates, which peaked during a period of foliar insect damage. Elevated CO caused equivalent increases in gross rates of N mineralization (+34%) and NH immobilization (+36%). These results indicate greater rates of N turnover under elevated CO, but do not indicate a negative feedback between elevated CO and soil N availability. Elevated O decreased gross N mineralization (-16%) and had no effect on NH immobilization, indicating reduced N availability under elevated O. The effects of CO and O on N mineralization rates were mainly related to changes in litter production, whereas effects on N immobilization were likely influenced by changes in litter chemistry and production. Our findings also indicate that concomitant increases in atmospheric CO and O could lead to a negative feedback on N availability.
40603632|Mesic-dry tundras are widespread in the Arctic but detailed assessments of net primary production (NPP) and ecosystem carbon (C) stocks are lacking.We addressed this lack of knowledge by determining the seasonal dynamics of aboveground vascular NPP, annual NPP, and whole-ecosystem stocks with contrasting microtopography, altitude, and dominant species. Those measurements were paralleled by the stock assessments of nitrogen (N), the limiting nutrient. The vascular production was determined by harvest or in situ growing units, in five mesic-dry tundras in Northern Sweden whereas the nonvascular production was obtained from average species growth rates, previously assessed at the sites. Results showed that aboveground vascular NPP (15-270 g m ), annual NPP (214-282 g m or 102-137 g m) and vegetation biomass (330-2450 g m ) varied greatly among communities. Vegetation dominated by Empetrum hermaphroditum is more productive than Cassiope tetragona vegetation. Although the large majority of the apical NPP occurred in early-mid season (85%), production of stems and evergreen leaves proceeded until about 2 weeks before senescence. Most of the vascular vegetation was belowground (80%), whereas most of the vegetation production occurred aboveground (85%).Ecosystem and N stocks were 2100-8200 g m and 80-330 g N m, respectively, stored mainly in the soil turf and in the fine organic soil. Such stocks are comparable to the and N stocks of moister tundra types, such as tussock tundra.
3658880| Moist acidic and nonacidic tundra are two of the most common vegetation types of the tundra in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range, Alaska, and they differ considerably in vegetation, soil nutrient availability, and soil pH. Both occur on mesic, gentle slopes, but acidic tundra is more common on older glacial surfaces whereas nonacidic tundra is more common on younger surfaces. Although much prior research has focused on moist acidic tundra, nonacidic tundra is still relatively unstudied. We compared rates of soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycling and their response to warming and changes in moisture in moist acidic tundra on Itkillik I glacial drift (50,000-120,000 years old, pH = 3-4) and moist nonacidic tundra on Itkillik II glacial drift (11,500-60,000 year old, pH = 6-7). We hypothesized that rates of soil C and N cycling would be faster at the nonacidic site because it has a more favorable pH for microbial activity and higher-quality organic matter inputs arising from its greater herbaceous plant production relative to the acidic site. However, in contrast to our hypothesis, in situ soil respiration, as well as respiration, dissolved organic C production, and net N mineralization in laboratory incubations, was greater for soils from the acidic site. Nevertheless, the sites responded similarly to manipulations of temperature and moisture, exhibiting exponential increases in respiration with warming between 4C and 15C but surprisingly little sensitivity to changes in moisture between 300% and 700%. Slower soil organic matter decomposition at the nonacidic site likely results from the stabilization of soil organic matter by high concentrations of calcium. 
43677542|We examined controls of benthic dinitrogen (N) fixation and primary production in oligotrophic lakes in Arctic Alaska, Toolik Field Station (Arctic Long-Term Ecological Research Site). Primary production in many oligotrophic lakes is limited by nitrogen (N), and benthic processes are important for whole-lake function. Oligotrophic lakes are increasingly susceptible to low-level non-point source nutrient inputs, yet the effects on benthic processes are not well understood. This study examines the results from a whole-lake fertilization experiment in which N and P were added at a relatively low level (4 times natural loading) in Redfield ratio to a shallow (3 m) and a deep (20 m) oligotrophic lake. The two lakes showed similar responses to fertilization: benthic primary production and respiration (each 50-150 mg C m day remained the same, and benthic N fixation declined by a factor of three- to fourfold by the second year of treatment (from ~ 0.35 to 0.1 mg N m day). This showed that the response of benthic N fixation was de-coupled from the nutrient limitation status of benthic primary producers and raised questions about the mechanisms, which were examined in separate laboratory experiments. Bioassay experiments in intact cores also showed no response of benthic primary production to added N and P, but contrasted with the whole-lake experiment in that N fixation did not respond to added N, either alone or in conjunction with P. This inconsistency was likely a result of nitrogenase activity of existing N fixers during the relative short duration (9 days) of the bioassay experiment. N fixation showed a positive saturating response when light was increased in the laboratory, but was not statistically related to ambient light level in the field, leading us to conclude that light limitation of the benthos from increasing water-column production was not important. Thus, increased N availability in the sediments through direct uptake likely caused a reduction in N fixation. These results show the capacity of the benthos in oligotrophic systems to buffer the whole-system response to nutrient addition by the apparent ability for significant nutrient uptake and the rapid decline in N fixation in response to added nutrients. Reduced benthic N fixation may be an early indicator of a eutrophication response of lakes which precedes the transition from benthic to water-column-dominated systems.
40603650|Hurricanes cause canopy removal and deposition of pulses of litter to the forest floor. A Canopy Trimming Experiment (CTE) was designed to decouple these two factors, and to investigate the separate abiotic and biotic consequences of hurricane-type damage and monitor recovery processes. As part of this experiment, effects on forest floor invertebrate communities were studied using litterbags. Canopy opening resulted in increased throughfall, soil moisture and light levels, but decreased litter moisture. Of these, only throughfall and soil moisture had returned to control levels 9 months after trimming. Canopy opening was the major determinant of adverse changes in forest floor invertebrate litter communities, by reducing diversity and biomass, irrespective of debris deposition, which played a secondary role. Plots subjected to the most disturbance, with canopy removed and debris added, had the lowest diversity and biomass. These two parameters were higher than control levels when debris was added to plots with an intact canopy, demonstrating that increased nutrient potential or habitat complexity can have a beneficial effect, but only if the abiotic conditions are suitable. Animal abundance remained similar over all treatments, because individual taxa responded differently to canopy trimming. Mites, Collembola, and Psocoptera, all microbiovores feeding mainly on fungal hyphae and spores, responded positively, with higher abundance in trimmed plots, whereas all other taxa, particularly predators and larger detritivores, declined in relative abundance. Litterbag mesh size and litter type had only minor effects on communities, and canopy trimming and debris deposition explained most variation between sites. Effects of trimming on diversity, biomass, and abundance of some invertebrate taxa were still seen when observations finished and canopy closure was complete at 19 months. This suggests that disturbance has a long-lasting effect on litter communities and may, therefore, delay detrital processing, depending on the severity of canopy damage and rate of regrowth.
3658830|In all ecosystems, bacteria are the most numerous organisms and through them flows a large fraction of annual primary production. In the past decade we have learned a great deal about some of the factors that regulate bacteria and their activities, and how these activities, in turn, alter ecosystem-level processes. Here I review three areas in which recent progress has been made with particular reference to pelagic ecosystems: the problem of bacterial cell dormancy; the effect of solar radiation on organic matter lability; and, the maintenance of net heterotrophy. In a system in which grazing is the major source of mortality for bacteria, bacterial cell dormancy is something of a paradox. I argue that the degree to which bacteria are grazed by flagellates (highly selective grazers) versus other grazers (cladocerans, bivalves) may explain the degree and variation in the proportion of active cells which recent evidence shows to be large. Another factor affecting bacterial activity that has come to the fore in recent years is solar radiation. Irradiation, especially in the ultra-violet range has long been thought of as simply deleterious to some bacteria. A wealth of newer evidence shows that refractory dissolved organic compounds may be converted into microbially labile compounds by solar radiation in several wavebands. This interaction between irradiation and organic matter (photolysis) may explain, in part, how dissolved organic carbon (C) may be refractory in the dark environment of the soil but become labile in the illumunated surface waters of lakes or rivers. The newer evidence shows that aquatic ecosystems, at least oligotrophic ones, are significantly subsidized by terrestrially-produced organic matter. I review here multiple lines of evidence that suggest that freshwater ecosystems are predominantly systems which respire more organic C than they produce by photosynthesis, and are therefore net heterotrophic. While net heterotrophy is an interesting exception for terrestrial ecosystems, it appears to be commonplace for aquatic systems and represents an important linkage between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.
25470429|Wildfire is the major natural agent of disturbance in interior Alaska. We examined the magnitude of human impact on fire by comparing fire regime between individual 1-km grid cells designated for fire suppression with lands where fires are allowed to burn naturally. Two-thirds of interior Alaska has an essentially natural fire regime, with few human ignitions, negligible suppression activity, and many large lightning-caused fires. In the 17% of land that is designated for fire suppression due to its proximity to communities and roads, there was a 50% reduction in the proportion of area burned from 1992-2001, relative to areas without suppression. The remaining 16% of land serves as a buffer, receives some suppression, and has an intermediate fire regime. Even though there were 50 times more fires and the fire season began two months earlier in lands designated for suppression, most of these fires were lit by people and remained small because fires tended to occur at times and places less favorable for fire spread and were more accessible to fire fighters compared to lands not designated for suppression. Even in the absence of fire suppression, human-caused fires were less likely to exceed 400 ha compared to lightning-caused fires. Fire suppression reduced area burned in all fuel types but was somewhat more effective in less flammable (non-forest) vegetation. Alaska's fire policy of focusing suppression efforts on a small proportion of the fire-prone region maximizes the ecological and social benefits associated with fire-dependent ecosystem services, while minimizing the social and ecological costs of suppression. Application of this policy to other areas would require well-informed managers and stakeholders to make difficult decisions about the relative costs and benefits of fire across ecologically and culturally variable landscapes.
27823687|Changes in climate and land use, caused by socioeconomic changes, greenhouse gas emissions, agricultural policies and other factors, are known to affect both natural and managed ecosystems, and will likely impact on the European terrestrial carbon balance during the coming decades. This study presents a comprehensive European Union wide (EU15 plus Norway and Switzerland, EU*) assessment of potential future changes in terrestrial carbon storage considering these effects based on four illustrative IPCC-SRES storylines (A1FI, A2, B1, B2). A process-based land vegetation model (LPJ-DGVM), adapted to include a generic representation of managed ecosystems, is forced with changing fields of land-use patterns from 1901 to 2100 to assess the effect of land-use and cover changes on the terrestrial carbon balance of Europe. The uncertainty in the future carbon balance associated with the choice of a climate change scenario is assessed by forcing LPJ-DGVM with output from four different climate models (GCMs: CGCM2, CSIRO2, HadCM3, PCM2) for the same SRES storyline. Decrease in agricultural areas and afforestation leads to simulated carbon sequestration for all land-use change scenarios with an average net uptake of 1738 Tg C/year between 1990 and 2100, corresponding to 1.92.9% of the EU*s CO2 emissions over the same period. Soil carbon losses resulting from climate warming reduce or even offset carbon sequestration resulting from growth enhancement induced by climate change and increasing atmospheric CO2 concentrations in the second half of the twenty-first century. Differences in future climate change projections among GCMs are the main cause for uncertainty in the cumulative European terrestrial carbon uptake of 4.410.1 Pg C between 1990 and 2100.
27823751|We examined aerobic and anaerobic microbial carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) exchange in peat samples representing different profiles at natural, mined, mined-abandoned, and restored northern peatlands and characterized the nutrient and substrate chemistry and microbial biomass of these soils. Mining and abandonment led to reduced nutrient and substrate availability and occasionally drier conditions in surface peat resulting in a drastic reduction in CO2 and CH4 production, in agreement with previous studies. Owing mainly to wetter conditions, CH4 production and oxidation were faster in restored block-cut than natural sites, whereas in one restored site, increased substrate and nutrient availability led to much more rapid rates of CO2 production. Our work in restored block-cut sites compliments that in vacuum-harvested peatlands undergoing more recent active restoration attempts. The sites we examined covered a large range of soil C substrate quality, nutrient availability, microbial biomass, and microbial activities, allowing us to draw general conclusions about controls on microbial CO2 and CH4 dynamics using stepwise regression analysis among all sites and soil depths. Aerobic and anaerobic decomposition of peat was constrained by organic matter quality, particularly phosphorus (P) and carbon (C) chemistry, and closely linked to the size of the microbial biomass supported by these limiting resources. Methane production was more dominantly controlled by field moisture content (a proxy for anaerobism), even after 20 days of anaerobic laboratory incubation, and to a lesser extent by C substrate availability. As methanogens likely represented only a small proportion of the total microbial biomass, there were no links between total microbial biomass and CH4 production. Methane oxidation was controlled by the same factors influencing CH4 production, leading to the conclusion that CH4 oxidation is primarily controlled by substrate (that is, CH4) availability. Although restoring hydrology similar to natural sites may re-establish CH4 dynamics, there is geographic or site-specific variability in the ability to restore peat decomposition dynamics.
27823674|The streamriparian interface, characterized by a dynamic and complex hydrology, is an important control point for nutrient fluxes and processing between terrestrial and aquatic systems. Predicted alterations in the discharge regime in Mediterranean climate regions make it necessary to understand the effects of abrupt hydrological transition between dry and wet conditions on the transport and fate of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) across the streamriparian interface. In this study, the concentrations and fate of total DOC (TDOC) and a subset of four molecular weight fractions (<1 kDa, 110 kDa, 10100 kDa, >100 kDa) were investigated in stream water and riparian groundwater during autumn of 2003 and 2004. The two study periods were characterized by contrasting antecedent hydrological conditions: the streamflow was interrupted in summer 2003 but was permanent in summer 2004. Comparison of the two study periods indicates that an abrupt drywet hydrological transition amplifies the water exchange across the streamriparian interface and favors retention of up to 57% of the TDOC that flows across the interface. Furthermore, the efficiency of DOC retention across the stream-riparian interface also varies greatly depending on DOC molecular size. More than 70% of DOC fractions higher than 10 kDa were retained, whereas the smaller fraction (less than 1 kDa) was nearly conserved. Consequently, our study helps to clarify the effects of extreme hydrological events on DOC transport in running waters in Mediterranean regions.
3658803|The boundaries between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, known as critical transition zones (CTZ), are dynamic interfaces for fluxes of water, sediment, solutes, and gases. Moreover, they often support unique or diverse biotas. Soils, especially those of riparian zones, have not been recognized as CTZ even though they play a critical role in regulating the hydrologic pathways of infiltration and leaching, or runoff and erosion, which can cumulatively affect biogeochemical processes and human livelihoods at landscape scales. In this review, we show how the processes that regulate hydrologic fluxes across and through soil CTZ are influenced by the activities of soil biota. Our message is fourfold. First, there are a variety of ways in which soil biodiversity, in terms of richness and dominance, can influence hydrological pathways in soil and thus the transfer of materials from terrestrial to aquatic ecosystems. Second, the influence of soil organisms on these hydrological pathways is very much interlinked with other environmental, soil biophysical, and vegetation factors that operate at different spatial and temporal scales. Third, we propose that the influence of soil biodiversity on hydrological pathways is most apparent (or identifiable), relative to other factors, in situations that lead to the dominance of certain organisms, such as larger fauna. Fourth, soils are buffered against environmental change by biophysical properties that have developed over long periods of time. Therefore, the effects of changes in soil biodiversity on hydrological processes at the ecosystem scale might be delayed and become most apparent in the long term.
40603617|In desert ecosystems, microbial activity and associated nutrient cycles are driven primarily by water availability and secondarily by nutrient availability. This is especially apparent in the extremely low productivity cold deserts of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica. In this region, sediments near streams and lakes provide the seasonally wet conditions necessary for microbial activity and nutrient cycling and thus transfer energy to higher organisms. However, aside from a few studies of soil respiration, rates of microbial activity throughout the region remain unexplored. We measured extracellular enzyme activity potentials (alkaline phosphatase, leucine-aminopeptidase, beta-glucosidase, phenol oxidase, and peroxidase) in soils adjacent to lakes and streams, expecting activity to be primarily related to soil water content, as well as time of season and organic matter supply. Phosphatase and beta-glucosidase activities were higher in shoreline than upland soils; however, potential rates were not correlated with soil water content. Instead, soil organic matter, salinity, and pH were the best predictors of microbial activity. Microbial nutrient limitation metrics estimated from extracellular enzyme activity were correlated with pH and salinity and exhibited similar patterns to previously published trends in soil P and N content. Compared to other terrestrial ecosystems, organic matter specific rates for leucine-aminopeptidase and oxidative enzyme activities were high, typical of alkaline desert soils. Phosphatase activity was close to the global mean whereas beta-glucosidase activity was extremely low, which may reflect the lack of vascular plant derived organic matter in the Dry Valleys. In this cold desert ecosystem, water availability promotes microbial activity, and microbial nutrient cycling potentials are related to soil geochemistry.
40928212|Proposed links between biodiversity and ecosystem processes have generated intense interest in the linkage between aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and soil C storage. Quantity and quality of ANPP largely depend on plant functional groups and management practices. In a context of environmental change (that is, land-use and climate) long-term studies of ANPP and functional groups are gaining interest. However, rapid determination of ANPP and functional groups are often limited in time and money, resulting in less than ideal sampling schemes and replications. Nearinfrared reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS) can relieve constraints of labor intensive hand-sorting by providing quick, non-destructive, and quantitative analyses of a range of organic constituents (for example, plant tissues). Here, we investigated the potential of a NIRS method to rapidly predict harvested green aboveground biomass, the proportion of dead material, and simple functional plant traits, necessary to determine ANPP and related ecosystem properties. The issue was investigated for two independent grassland experiments of contrasted long-term field management (high vs. low grazing and N fertilization). Our results show that NIRS analyses are well suited to determine ANPP (12 and 19% error of prediction) and simple plant traits (error 9%) of contrasted treatment of two independent multi-species grasslands. Moreover, we show that calibration may be simplified when compared to commonly used protocols, which offers ecologists enormous analytical power.
41505936|Species are often grouped according to their biological or functional traits to better understand their contribution to ecosystem functioning. However, it is becoming clear that a single species can perform different roles in different habitats. Austrohelice crassa, a burrow-building mud crab shifts its primary bioturbational role to that of a vertical mixer in non-cohesive sediments as frequent burrow collapse greatly enhances sediment reworking. We conducted in situ crab density manipulations in two sediment environments (a non-cohesive sand and a cohesive muddy-sand) to examine if the contextspecific functional roles were linked to changes in solute fluxes across the sediment-water interface. Across both habitats, we show that A. crassa regulated nutrient cycling, creating strong density driven effects on solute exchanges. Increasing crab density increased sediment O demand and the flux of NH from the sediment, indicating much of the response was physiologically driven. Clear interactions between A. crassa and microphytobenthos were also detected in both habitats. Despite lowering microphyte standing stock through deposit feeding, A. crassa increased benthic primary production per unit of chlorophyll a. Our experiment also revealed important context-specific differences, most notably for NH fluxes, which were higher where burrows and their associated microbial communities were most stable (muddy-sand). This study highlights the need to integrate interactions between organism behavior and habitat type into functional group studies to broaden conceptual frameworks and avoid oversimplification of highly complex organism-sediment interactions.
40603430|Ecologists need to develop tools that allow characterization of vegetation condition over scales that are pertinent to species' persistence and appropriate for management actions. Our study shows that stand condition can be mapped accurately over the floodplain of a major river system (ca 100,000 ha of forest over 1600 km of river)the Murray River in southeastern Australia. It demonstrates the value of using quantitative ground surveys in conjunction with remotely sensed data to model vegetation condition over very large spatial domains. A comparison of four modelling methods found that stand condition was best modelled using the multivariate adaptive regression spline (MARS) method (R = 0.85), although there was little difference among the methods (R = 0.770.85). However, a subsequent validation survey of condition at new locations showed that use of artificial neural networks had substantially higher predictive power (R = 0.78) than the MARS model (R = 0.28). This discrepancy demonstrates the value of using several modelling approaches to determine relationships among vegetation responses and environmental variables, and stresses the importance of validating ecological models with predictive surveys conducted after model building. The artificial neural network was used to produce a stand condition map for the whole floodplain, which predicted that only 30% of the area containing Eucalyptus camaldulensis stands is currently in good condition. There is a downstream decline in stand condition, which is related to more extreme declines in flooding, due to water harvesting, and drier climate found in the Lower Murray region. Rigorous surveying and modelling approaches, such as those used here, are necessary if vegetation health is to be effectively monitored and managed.
3658668| Nitrogen controls on fine root substrate quality (that is, nitrogen and carbon-fraction concentrations) were assessed using nitrogen availability gradients in the Harvard Forest chronic nitrogen addition plots, University of Wisconsin Arboretum, Blackhawk Island, Wisconsin, and New England spruce-fir transect. The 27 study sites encompassed within these four areas collectively represented a wide range of nitrogen availability (both quantity and form), soil types, species composition, aboveground net primary production, and climatic regimes. Changes in fine root substrate quality among sites were most frequently and strongly correlated with nitrate availability. For the combined data set, fine root nitrogen concentration increased (adjusted R
23253740|Zooplankton support a variety of important ecosystem processes in lakes but our understanding of how these organisms respond to ongoing climate change is superficial. Aquatic ecosystems have been exposed to substantial climate warming in the last century, and this trend is certain to continue, especially in northern latitudes. We analyzed a long time series of a variety of physical attributes of Lake Aleknagik, southwest Alaska, to quantify warming trends between 1963 and 2009, and to assess zooplankton community responses to variation in thermal conditions. Our analyses demonstrate clear trends toward earlier spring ice break-up, increases in average epilimnetic temperatures and an 18.5% increase in summer epilimnetic degree days since 1963. We estimated the magnitude and direction of changes in zooplankton production and end of season densities in response to changes in thermal environment, then explored whether the climate-driven responses in production are common in five large lakes that are distributed across a coastalinterior landscape gradient. Although we detected no clear directional changes in zooplankton densities or production rates, there were clear correlations between these variables and interannual variation in thermal conditions. The positive effects of earlier spring ice break-up and increase in summer degree days were strongest on the production and density responses of Daphnia and Bosmina, and the lagged effect of temperature was important and negative only for calanoid copepods. There was a negative effect of sockeye escapement to Lake Aleknagik in the previous year on all taxa. There were lake-specific effects of changes in the thermal environment on almost all taxa and small gradients in the magnitude of responses across the landscape, but no systematic patterns of landscape control.
25053823|Exotic insect pests may strongly disrupt forest ecosystems and trigger major shifts in nutrient cycling, structure, and composition. We examined the relationship between these diverse effects for the hemlock woolly adelgid (HWA, Adelges tsugae Annand) in New England forests by studying its impacts on local canopy processes in stands differing in infestation levels and linking these impacts to shifts in canopy nutrient cycling and stand and landscape effects. HWA initiated major changes in canopy biomass and distribution. Whereas uninfested trees exhibit a significant decline in canopy biomass from the center to the periphery and a positive correlation between total needle litter and estimated biomass, infested trees have significantly less total canopy biomass, produce less new foliage, shed relatively more needles, and exhibit no correlation between litter and canopy biomass. Foliar N content of infested trees was 20%-40% higher than reference trees, with the strongest increase in young foliage supporting the highest densities of HWA. Foliar %C was unaffected by HWA or foliar age. Epiphytic microorganisms on hemlock needles exhibited little variation in abundance within canopies, but colony-forming units of bacteria, yeast, and filamentous fungi were 2-3 orders of magnitude more abundant on medium and heavily infested than uninfested trees. Throughfall chemistry, quantity, and spatial pattern were strongly altered by HWA. Throughfall exhibits a strong gradient beneath uninfested trees, decreasing in volumes from the canopy periphery to the trunk by more than 45%. The amount of throughfall beneath infested trees exhibits no spatial pattern, reaches 80%-90% of the bulk precipitation, and is characterized by significantly higher concentrations of nitrogen compounds, dissolved organic carbon, and cations. Across the southern New England landscape there is a strong south-to-north gradient of decreasing hemlock tree and sapling mortality and understory compositional change that corresponds to the duration of infestation. Regionally, black birch (Betula lenta L.) is profiting most from hemlock decline by significantly increasing in density and cover. These findings suggest that it is necessary to study the connections between fast/small-scale processes such as changes in nutrient cycling in tree canopies and slow/integrative processes like shifts in biogeochemieal cycling and compositional changes at forest stands and landscapes to better understand the effects of an exotic pest species like HWA on forest ecosystem structure and function.
25470411|The intermediate disturbance hypothesis (IDH) predicts a hump-shaped relationship between regional diversity and the disturbance rate. We tested the IDH for the megabenthos inhabiting the Antarctic sea floor, which is disturbed by iceberg scouring. We used models based on the empirical knowledge of succession to calculate the IDH curve for this system and to extrapolate the presently observable range of the IDH curve to higher and lower disturbance rates. Although the hump-shaped relationship has been found for a purely theoretical (extremely large) disturbance range, within the feasible disturbance range (assumed as realistic in the Antarctic region under climate change), the regional diversity of successional stages due to iceberg scouring strongly decreases with lower disturbance rates but levels off only slowly with higher disturbance rates. The reason is the unevenness in the lifetimes of the successional stages, in that early stages are short-lived whereas late stages are long-lived. With such unevenness, increasing disturbances support the early stages without jeopardizing the later ones. Additionally, we converted this regional diversity of stages to the regional diversity of taxa using a transformation formula based on empirical knowledge of the number and mean abundance of taxa in the particular stages. Our results suggest that a decrease in iceberg scouring due to climate change would be more detrimental to the diversity of the Antarctic megabenthos than an increase.
3658650|Recently, it was hypothesized that ectomycorrhizas hyphae are involved in mineral tunneling. We evaluated the role of ectomycorrhizas in mineral weathering and the ecosystem influx of basic cations by correlating mineral tunnel density to ectomycorrhizas density in two forest productivity gradients. The gradients, two gentle slopes in northern Sweden, are the result of groundwater movement and are characterized by reduced productivity up-slope due to lower nitrogen availability. As expected, ectomycorrhizas density in the O horizon was higher upslope, where nitrogen availability was lower and where the vegetation was dominated by ectomycorrhizas plant species. We consistently found that tunnel formation in mineral grains was more intense in nutrient-poor sites, indicating a higher contribution of fungi to ecosystem influx of potassium and calcium. ectomycorrhizas density was positively correlated with feldspar tunnel density in the upper 2 cm of the E horizon. This suggests that ectomycorrhizas are involved in mineral tunneling. We discuss the possible involvement of ericoid mycorrhizas and saprotrophic fungi in feldspar tunneling and the role of the weathering status of mineral grains as additional factors controlling mineral funneling.
3658706|Historical and ecological data from north-central Massachusetts suggest that widespread and intensive human disturbance after European settlement led to a shift in forest composition and obscured regional patterns of species abundance. A paleoecological approach was required to place recent forest dynamics in a long-term context. Pollen and charcoal data from 11 small lakes in north-central Massachusetts were used to reconstruct local vegetation dynamics and fire histories across the region over the past 1000 years. The sites are located across an environmental gradient. Paleoecological data indicate that prior to European settlement, there was regional variation in forest composition corresponding to differences in climate, substrate, and fire regime. Oak, chestnut, and hickory were abundant at low elevations, whereas hemlock, beech, sugar maple, and yellow birch were common at high elevations. Fire appears to have been more frequent and/or intense at lower elevations, maintaining high abundances of oak, and archaeological data suggest Native American populations were greater in these areas. A change in forest composition at higher elevations, around 550 years before present, may be related to the Little Ice Age (a period of variable climate), fire, and/or activity by Native Americans, and led to regional convergence in forest composition. After European settlement, forest composition changed markedly in response to human disturbance and there was a sharp increase in rates of vegetation change. Regional patterns were obscured further, leading to homogenization of broad-scale forest composition. There is no indication from the pollen data that forests are returning to pre-European settlement forest composition, and rates of vegetation change remain high, reflecting continuing disturbance on the landscape, despite regional reforestation.
25053811|The long-range outlook for the world's ecosystems depends on the course taken by global development in the coming decades. Current global trends and ecological dynamics are consistent with very different outcomes, defined by alternative assumptions about the technological, economic, demographic, geopolitical, and social aspects of development and the ways in which institutions, personal and public values, and natural systems may be expected to respond to historically novel stressors. Recent advances in scenario analysis have addressed the dual methodological challenge of exploring these uncertainties in an organized way and determining what would be needed to make the transition to sustainability. This paper reviews global scenario research, setting current efforts in a historical context. It focuses on seven recent studies that are comprehensive, regionally disaggregated, and narratively rich-and thus of greatest relevance to the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA). It summarizes their social visions and the level of quantitative detail used in these exercises. Taken together, this suite of global scenario studies provides a useful platform for the MA by offering insight into the complex factors that drive ecosystem change, estimating the magnitude of regional pressures on ecosystems, sounding the alert on critical uncertainties that could undermine sustainable development, and understanding the importance of institutions and values. But these studies are only a point of departure. The integration of changing ecosystem conditions into global development scenarios, as both effects and causes, is at the cutting edge of scenario analysis. The paper concludes by identifying directions for this research program and suggesting ways that the MA can contribute to this effort.
25470343|Understanding the interactions between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems remains an important research focus in ecology. In arid landscapes, catchments are drained by a channel continuum that represents a potentially important driver of ecological pattern and process in the surrounding terrestrial environment. To better understand the role of drainage networks in arid landscapes, we determined how stream size influences the structure and productivity of riparian vegetation, and the accumulation of organic matter (OM) in soils beneath plants in an upper Sonoran Desert basin. Canopy volume of velvet mesquite (Prosopis velutina), as well as overall plant cover, increased along lateral upland-riparian gradients, and among riparian zones adjacent to increasingly larger streams. Foliar C signatures for P. velutina suggested that landscape patterns in vegetation structure reflect increases in water availability along this arid stream continuum. Leaf litter and annual grass biomass production both increased with canopy volume, and total aboveground litter production ranged from 137 g m y in upland habitat to 446 g m y in the riparian zone of the perennial stream. OM accumulation in soils beneath P. velutina increased with canopy volume across a broad range of drainage sizes; however, in the riparian zone of larger streams, flooding further modified patterns of OM storage. Drainage networks represent important determinants of vegetation structure and function in upper Sonoran Desert basins, and the extent to which streams act as sources of plant-available water and/or agents of fluvial disturbance has implications for material storage in arid soils.
41505946|The effect of river water quality, its inflow rate, and temperature on planktonic food web composition and activities were studied in the eutrophic Sau Reservoir (Catalonia, NE Spain). We analyzed 8 longitudinal transects conducted between July 1996 and April 1999 covering a wide range of variability in both seasonal and spatial circulation patterns. To compare objectively the biological longitudinal gradients under seasonally fluctuating water levels and different types of water circulation patterns, we applied a model based on the relative distance of a sampling station from the river inflow. Even under different hydrological scenarios, the model was able to characterize epilimnetic food chain successions and locations of peaks of bacteria, heterotrophic nanoflagellates, ciliates, phytoplankton, and Zooplankton along the longitudinal gradient. The amplitude of microbial peaks was directly related to the proportion of nutrient and organic carbon rich river water that mixed into the reservoir epilimnion. Enhanced abundances and activities of microbes were detected in spring and summer periods, mainly during events of river water overflow when a large proportion of the river was directly mixed into the epilimnion. Thus, the relative input of river water is suggested to be a useful predictor of the amplitude of the development of the epilimnetic microbial food webs in highly loaded canyon-shaped reservoirs. These results may have important implications in the context of global change in Mediterranean regions, where expected reductions in runoff may profoundly affect river water circulation patterns in reservoirs and hence organic carbon cycling in these ecosystems.
3658815|This paper provides the first steps toward a regional-scale analysis of carbon (C) budgets. We explore the ability of the ecosystem model BIOME-BGC to estimate the daily and annual C dynamics of four European coniferous forests and shifts in these dynamics in response to changing environmental conditions. We estimate uncertainties in the model results that arise from incomplete knowledge of site management history (for example, successional stage of forest). These uncertainties are especially relevant in regional-scale simulations, because this type of information is difficult to obtain. Although the model predicted daily C and water fluxes reasonably well at all sites, it seemed to have a better predictive capacity for the photosynthesis-related processes than for respiration. Leaf area index (LAI) was modeled accurately at two sites but overestimated at two others (as a result of poor long-term climate drivers and uncertainties in model parameterization). The overestimation of LAI (and consequently gross photosynthetic production (GPP)), in combination with reasonable estimates of the daily net ecosystem productivity (NEP) of those forests, also illustrates the problem with modeled respiration. The model results suggests that all four European forests have been net sinks of C at the rate of
23328060|The impacts of exotic insects and pathogens on forest ecosystems are increasingly recognized, yet the factors influencing the magnitude of effects remain poorly understood. Eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) exerts strong control on nitrogen (N) dynamics, and its loss due to infestation by the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae) is expected to decrease N retention in impacted stands. We evaluated the potential for site variation in N availability to influence the magnitude of effects of hemlock decline on N dynamics in mixed hardwood stands. We measured N pools and fluxes at three elevations (low, mid, high) subjected to increasing atmospheric N deposition where hemlock was declining or absent (as reference), in western North Carolina. Nitrogen pools and fluxes varied substantially with elevation and increasing N availability. Total forest floor and mineral soil N increased (P < 0.0001, P = 0.0017, resp.) and forest floor and soil carbon (C) to N ratio decreased with elevation (P < 0.0001, P = 0.0123, resp.), suggesting that these high elevation pools are accumulating available N. Contrary to expectations, subsurface leaching of inorganic N was minimal overall (<1 kg ha -1 9 months -1 ), and was not higher in stands with hemlock mortality. Mean subsurface flux was 0.16  0.04 (SE) (kg N ha -1 100 days -1 ) in reference and 0.17  0.05 (kg N ha -1 100 days -1 ) in declining hemlock stands. Moreover, although subsurface N flux increased with N availability in reference stands, there was no relationship between N availability and flux in stands experiencing hemlock decline. Higher foliar N and observed increases in the growth of hardwood species in high elevation stands suggest that hemlock decline has stimulated N uptake and growth by healthy vegetation within this mixed forest, and may contribute to decoupling the relationship between N deposition and ecosystem N flux.
25622906|Large herbivores can change ecosystem functioning by impacting plant diversity. However, although such impacts are expected to be scale-dependent in ecosystems with wide-roaming ungulates, scaling issues rarely enter empirical assessments. We here test the hypothesis that the impact of increased reindeer abundance on plant diversity in alpine tundra is scale-dependent. Based on potentially high productivity of the focal habitat units and hence the possibility of positive grazer impacts on plant diversity we predicted higher  and  diversity at the habitat scale where reindeer densities are high. We also explored whether there were differences in diversity patterns at larger scales, including the scale of reindeer management districts. We estimated grazing disturbance as high versus low reindeer density in selected districts (a total extent of 7421 km) of Northern Norway where reindeer-induced vegetation shifts are debated. We focus on dominance patterns because they can quantify the vegetation state and thus performed additive partitioning of Simpson diversity on multiple scales assessing also species' contributions to diversity. Contrary to our predictions, we found only weak scale-dependent effects of reindeer grazing on plant diversity. Under high reindeer densities there was evidence for a landscape-scale homogenization of the vegetation, but the predicted  and  diversity increases at the habitat scale were not found. Consistently through all scales considered, four shrub species contributed the most to plant diversity. These results contradict the idea that reindeer at high stocking densities induce shifts in plant species dominance in productive habitats. We conclude that context-dependencies such as spatial scales of management units and habitat types need to be explicitly considered in evaluations of the impacts of large ungulates on plant diversity.
23325688|A detailed diatom record from Lake Klksjn, west-central Sweden, reveals two periods of abrupt ecological change correlative with the 8.2 ka cooling event. Using a combination of abrupt step changes and piece-wise linear regressions, the diatom data were analyzed for change points over time, and two sudden and large events that are described as regime shifts were detected. During the first event at c. 8040 cal. y BP, a doubling in diatom biomass took place over 510 years. This increase in primary productivity can be connected to an erosion event in the catchment that resulted in an abrupt increase in nutrient supply to the lake. The second event was characterized by a substantial shift within the planktonic diatom community from taxa indicative of colder conditions to those indicating warm over 510 years at c. 7850 cal. y BP. This event was superimposed on a successive change from periphytic to planktonic diatom dominance over a 250-year period and a gradual diversification of the periphytic community that spanned c. 150 years. Rapid climate warming following the 8.2 ka event likely caused these changes and both regime shifts are examples of externally driven abrupt ecological change. This study demonstrates that it is possible to detect, quantify and test for regime shifts in paleoecological data, and it highlights the need for high sampling resolution and precise chronological control. High-resolution paleoecological reconstructions of ecological regime shifts in response to climate change can provide useful analogues of future changes in ecosystem structure and functioning.
40928226|Species' impacts on primary production can have strong ecological consequences. In freshwater ecosystems, Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) may influence stream periphyton through substrate disturbance during spawning and nutrient subsidies from senescent adults. The shape of relationships between the abundance of spawning salmon and stream periphyton, as well as interactions with environmental variables, are incompletely understood and may differ across the geographic range of salmon. We examined these relationships across 24 sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) spawning streams in north-central British Columbia, Canada. The influence of salmon abundance and environmental variables (temperature, light, dissolved nutrients, water velocity, watershed size, and invertebrate grazer abundance) on post-spawning periphyton abundance and nitrogen stable isotope signatures, which can indicate the uptake of salmon nitrogen, was evaluated using linear regression models and Akaike Information Criterion. Periphyton nitrogen stable isotope signatures were best described by a positive log-linear relationship with an upstream salmon abundance metric that includes salmon from earlier years. This suggests the presence of a nutrient legacy. In contrast, periphyton abundance was negatively related to the spawning-year salmon density, which likely results from substrate disturbance during spawning, and positively related to dissolved soluble reactive phosphorus prior to spawning, which may indicate phosphorus limitation in the streams. These results suggest that enrichment from salmon nutrients does not always translate into elevated periphyton abundance. This underscores the need to directly assess the outcome of salmon impacts on streams rather than extrapolating from stable isotope evidence for the incorporation of salmon nutrients into food webs.
3658604|Northeastern Costa Rica is a mosaic of primary and secondary forests, tree plantations, pastures, and cash crops. Many studies have quantified the effects of one type of land-use transition (for example, deforestation or reforestation) on soil properties such as organic carbon (C) storage, but few have compared different land-use transitions simultaneously. We can best understand the effects of land-use change on regional and global ecosystem processes by considering all of the land-use transitions that occur in a landscape. In this study, I examined the changes in total soil C and nitrogen (N) pools (to 0.3 m) that have accompanied different land-use transitions in a 140,000-ha region in northeastern Costa Rica. I paired sites that had similar topography and soils but differed in recent land-use history. The following land-use transitions were represented: 12 conversions of primary forests to banana plantations, 15 conversions of pastures to cash crops, and four conversions of pastures to Vochysia guatemalensis tree plantations. The conversion of forests to bananas decreases soil C concentrations and inventories
43677528|Increased demand for food due to the rapidly growing human population has led to extensive conversion of native steppes at the margins of oases in arid lands of northwest China into intensively managed farmlands. However, the consequences of this land-use change for soil microarthropod biodiversity and ecosystem functioning remain unknown. Here we assessed how conversion of a native steppe to irrigated farmlands of different ages affects the abundance and composition of soil microarthropods and how changes in soil microarthropod biodiversity could scale up to influence soil carbon and nitrogen stocks. We sampled microarin soil carbon and nitrogen stocks due to conversion of native steppe to farmlands followed similar patterns to soil micro-arthropod biodiversity, but the greater storage of DOC, MBC, TN, IN, and MBN occurred in the 90-year-old farmland. Our results suggest that soil microarthropod communities are affected positively by native steppe conversion to farmland and farmland age, and that thropod communities over two growing seasons from native steppes and cultivated soils of a 27-year-old irrigated farmland and a 90-year-old irrigated farmland, both of which were converted from the native steppe. Topsoil properties and bulk and labile pools of carbon and nitrogen, including soil organic carbon, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), microbial biomass carbon (MBC), total nitrogen (TN), inorganic nitrogen (IN), and microbial biomass nitrogen (MBN), were also measured. The conversion of native steppe to either of the two farmlands significantly increased the abundance and taxa richness of three taxonomic groups (mites, collembolans, and others) and four trophic groups (herbivores, predators, detritivores, and fungivores); this effect was greater in the 90-year-old farmland for the abundance of all taxonomic and trophic groups except for herbivores and was similar between the two farmlands for the richness of all taxonomic and trophic groups. Taxonomic and trophic composition of the microarthropod community showed strong shifts in response to conversion of native steppe to either of the two farmlands. Compositional changes were largely mediated by changes in soil environments. Changes increased microarthropod biodiversity significantly improved the ability of soils to retain carbon and nitrogen.
40296286|The dominant processes determining biological structure in lakes at millennial timescales are complex. In this study, we used a multi-proxy approach to determine the relative importance of in-lake versus indirect processes on the Holocene development of an oligotrophic lake in SW Greenland (66.99N, 50.97W). A C and Pb-dated sediment core covering approximately 8500 years BP was analyzed for organic-inorganic carbon content, pigments, diatoms, chironomids, cladocerans, and stable isotopes ( C, O). Relationships among the different proxies and a number of independent controlling variables (Holocene temperature, an isotope-inferred cooling period, and immigration of Betula nana into the catchment) were explored using redundancy analysis (RDA) independent of time. The main ecological trajectories in the lake biota were captured by ordination first axis sample scores (18-32% variance explained). The importance of the arrival of Betula (ca. 6500 years BP) into the catchment was indicated by a series of partial-constrained ordinations, uniquely explaining 12-17% of the variance in chironomids and up to 9% in pigments. Climate influences on lake biota were strongest during a short-lived cooling period (identified by altered stable isotopes) early in the development of the lake when all proxies changed rapidly, although only chironomids had a unique component (8% in a partial-RDA) explained by the cooling event. Holocene climate explained less variance than either catchment changes or biotic relationships. The sediment record at this site indicates the importance of catchment factors for lake development, the complexity of community trends even in relatively simple systems (invertebrates are the top predators in the lake) and the challenges of deriving palaeoclimate inferences from sediment records in low-Arctic freshwater lakes.
40928237|We determined the response of terrestrial methane (CH) uptake to 4 years of full-factorial manipulations of precipitation and temperature in four ecosystems along a 50 km warm and dry to cold and wet climatic gradient (desert grassland, pinyon-juniper woodland, ponderosa pine forest, and mixed conifer forest). Our goals were to determine whether ecosystem-specific, intraannual, and interactive responses to altered precipitation and warming are quantitatively important. Passive collectors and interceptors increased (+50% per event) and reduced (-30% per event) the quantity of precipitation delivered to experimental plantsoil mesocosms, and downward transfer along the elevation gradient warmed mesocosms by 1.8C on average. Methane uptake in the colder and wetter ecosystems along the gradient decreased with increasing precipitation, especially during the wet season. The warmer and drier ecosystems, however, responded more strongly to warming, exhibiting less CH uptake with increasing temperature. We found no interaction between altered precipitation and warming in any ecosystem. Soil CH consumption in the laboratory was a strong predictor of ecosystem differences in field CH consumption, but was a poor predictor of the effects of climatic change observed in the field. Based on our results, future climate scenarios that are wet and warm will cause the largest reduction in terrestrial CH uptake across ecosystem types.
23253691|Long-term responses of terrestrial ecosystems to the combined effects of warming and elevated CO 2 (eCO 2 ) will likely be regulated by N availability. The stock of soil N determines availability for organisms, but also influences loss to the atmosphere or groundwater. eCO 2 and warming can elicit changes in soil N via direct effects on microbial and plant activity, or indirectly, via soil moisture. Detangling the interplay of direct- and moisture-mediated impacts on soil N and the role of organisms in controlling soil N will improve predictions of ecosystem-level responses. We followed individual soil N pools over two growing seasons in a semiarid temperate grassland, at the Prairie Heating and CO 2 Enrichment experiment. We evaluated relationships of N pools with environmental factors and explored the role of plants by assessing plant biomass, plant N, and plant inputs to soil. We also assessed N forms in plots with and without vegetation to remove plant-mediated effects. Our study demonstrated that the effects of warming and eCO 2 are highly dependent on individual N form and on year. In this water-constrained grassland, eCO 2 , warming and their combination appear to impact soil N pools through a complex combination of direct- and moisture-mediated effects. eCO 2 decreased NO 3 - but had neutral to positive effects on NH4+ and dissolved organic N (DON), particularly in a wet year. Warming increased NO 3 - availability due to a combination of indirect drying and direct temperature-driven effects. Warming also increased DON only in vegetated plots, suggesting plant mediation. Our results suggest that impacts of combined eCO 2 and warming are not always equivalent for plant and soil pools; although warming can help offset the decrease in NO 3 - availability for plants under eCO 2 , the NO 3 - pool in soil is mainly driven by the negative effects of eCO 2 .
41507791|We used structured expert judgment and economic analysis to quantify annual impacts on ecosystem services in the Great Lakes, North America of nonindigenous aquatic species introduced by ocean-going ships. For the US waters, median damages aggregated across multiple ecosystem services were $138 million per year, and there is a 5% chance that for sportfishing alone losses exceeded $800 million annually. Plausible scenarios of future damages in the US waters alone were similar in magnitude to the binational benefits of ocean-going shipping in the Great Lakes, suggesting more serious consideration is warranted for policy options to reduce the risk of future invasions via the St. Lawrence Seaway.
3658633|Chemical changes along headwater streams at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire suggest that important differences exist in biogeochemical cycles along an altitudinal gradient within small watershed ecosystems. Using data collected during the period 1982-92, we have constructed element budgets [Ca, Mg, K, Na, Si, Al, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), S, and N] for three subcatchments within watershed 6, a forested watershed last logged around 1917-20. The biogeochemistry of the high-elevation spruce-fir-white birch subcatchment was dominated by processes involving naturally occuring organic compounds. Stream water and soil solutions in this zone had elevated concentrations of organic acidity, DOC, and organically bound monomeric aluminum
40296288|Mangrove forests cover large areas of tropical and subtropical coastlines. They provide a wide range of ecosystem services that includes carbon storage in above-and below ground biomass and in soils. Carbon dioxide (CO) emissions from soil, or soil respiration is important in the global carbon budget and is sensitive to increasing global temperature. To understand the magnitude of mangrove soil respiration and the influence of forest structure and temperature on the variation in mangrove soil respiration I assessed soil respiration at eleven mangrove sites, ranging from latitude 27N to 37S. Mangrove soil respiration was similar to those observed for terrestrial forest soils. Soil respiration was correlated with leaf area index (LAI) and aboveground net primary production (litterfall), which should aid scaling up to regional and global estimates of soil respiration. Using a carbon balance model, total belowground carbon allocation (TBCA) per unit litterfall was similar in tall mangrove forests as observed in terrestrial forests, but inscrub mangrove forests TBCA per unit litter fall was greater than in terrestrial forests, suggesting mangroves allocate a large proportion of their fixed carbon below ground under unfavorable environmental conditions. The response of soil respiration to soil temperature was not a linear function of temperature. At temperatures below 26C Q10 of mangrove soil respiration was 2.6, similar to that reported for terrestrial forest soils. However in scrub forests soil respiration declined with increasing soil temperature, largely because of reduced canopy cover and enhanced activity of photosynthetic benthic microbial communities.
23253692|Ecohydrologic models are a key tool in understanding plantwater interactions and their vulnerability to environmental change. Although implications of uncertainty in these models are often assessed within a strictly hydrologic context (for example, runoff modeling), the implications of uncertainty for estimation of vegetation water use are less frequently considered. We assess the influence of commonly used model parameters and inputs on predictions of catchment-scale evapotranspiration (ET) and runoff. By clarifying the implications of uncertainty, we identify strategies for insuring that the quality of data used to drive models is considered in interpretation of model predictions. Our assessment also provides insight into unique features of semi-arid, urbanizing watersheds that shape ET patterns. We consider four sources of uncertainty: soil parameters, irrigation inputs, and spatial extrapolation of both point precipitation and air temperature for an urbanizing, semi-arid coastal catchment in Santa Barbara, CA. Our results highlight a seasonal transition from soil parameters to irrigation inputs as key controls on ET. Both ET and runoff show substantial sensitivity to uncertainty in soil parameters, even after parameters have been calibrated against observed streamflow. Sensitivity to uncertainty in precipitation manifested primarily in winter runoff predictions, whereas sensitivity to irrigation manifested exclusively in modeled summer ET. Neither ET nor runoff was highly sensitive to uncertainty in spatial interpolation of temperature. Results argue that efforts to improve ecohydrologic modeling of vegetation water use and associated water-limited ecological processes in these semi-arid regions should focus on improving estimates of anthropogenic outdoor water use and explicit accounting of soil parameter uncertainty.
40603422|We investigate interactions between successive naturally occurring fires, and assess to what extent the environments in which fires burn influence these interactions. Using mapped fire perimeters and satellite-based estimates of post-fire effects (referred to hereafter as fire severity) for 19 fires burning relatively freely over a 31 -year period, we demonstrate that fire as a landscape process can exhibit self-limiting characteristics in an upper elevation Sierra Nevada mixed conifer forest. We use the term ' self-limiting' to refer to recurring fire as a process over time (that is, fire regime) consuming fuel and ultimately constraining the spatial extent and lessening fire-induced effects of subsequent fires. When the amount of time between successive adjacent fires is under 9 years, and when fire weather is not extreme (burning index < 34.9), the probability of the latter fire burning into the previous fire area is extremely low. Analysis of fire severity data by 10-year periods revealed a fair degree of stability in the proportion of area burned among fire severity classes (unchanged, low, moderate, high). This is in contrast to a recent study demonstrating increasing high-severity burning throughout the Sierra Nevada from 1984 to 2006, which suggests freely burning fires over time in upper elevation Sierra Nevada mixed conifer forests can regulate fire-induced effects across the landscape. This information can help managers better anticipate short-and long-term effects of allowing naturally ignited fires to burn, and ultimately, improve their ability to implement Wildland Fire Use programs in similar forest types.
3658600|In the Sierra Nevada, distributions of forest tree species are largely controlled by the soil-moisture balance. Changes in temperature or precipitation as a result of increased greenhouse gas concentrations could lead to changes in species distributions. In addition, climatic change could increase the frequency and severity of wildfires. We used a forest gap model developed for Sierra Nevada forests to investigate the potential sensitivity of these forests to climatic change, including a changing fire regime. Fuel moisture influences the fire regime and couples fire to climate. Fires are also affected by fuel loads, which accumulate according to forest structure and composition. These model features were used to investigate the complex interactions between climate, fire, and forest dynamics. Eight hypothetical climate-change scenarios were simulated, including two general circulation model (GCM) predictions of a 2 CO
3658722|The Great Plains of the United States is characterized by a large west-east gradient in annual precipitation and a similar large north-south gradient in annual temperature. Native grasslands and winter wheat are found over a large portion of the precipitation and temperature gradients. In this article, we use long-term data to analyze the differences in the patterns in aboveground net primary production and precipitation-use efficiency between wheat and native grassland ecosystems in the central portion of Great Plains, and their relationships to potential water availability (precipitation). Aboveground net primary production of native grasslands shows a large response to precipitation. Aboveground net primary production of winter wheat has a smaller response to changing precipitation. Annual precipitation-use efficiency of native grasslands is unaffected by increases in average annual precipitation, but precipitation-use efficiency of summer-fallow wheat ecosystems decreases substantially with increased average precipitation. Our results suggest that in the wetter portion of the central Great Plains, summer-fallow wheat management is relatively inefficient, because increased water availability results in diminishing returns. Comparisons with data from continuously cropped wheat confirmed this result. Shifts across the region to continuous cropping of wheat potentially could have significant impacts on regional wheat yield, carbon balance, and economic status.
3658724|This article explores the pattern of land use in China to understand the relationships between land use and factors that can be used to predict it. Such understanding is important for development of comprehensive models of land-use dynamics. Correlation and regression analyses are used to identify the most important explanatory variables from a large set of factors generally considered important in predicting the distribution of land use. We found that the spatial distribution of all land-use types in China is best described by an integrated set of biophysical and socioeconomic factors. Specific attention is given to the influence of the scale of analysis on study results. Both data resolution and the extent of the study area influence the discovered relationships. Relationships obtained at a certain scale of analysis therefore may not be directly applied at other scales or in other areas. The relevance of the systematic and quantitative characterization of the land-use patterns in China for the parameterization of spatially explicit land-use models is discussed.
3658960|We propose an operational definition of spatial structure in the oceanic ecosystem; it is equivalent to the large-scale, horizontal distribution of the dominant ecophysiological rate parameters for the questions of interest. In an important, particular case, the relevant rate parameters are those that characterize autotrophic production. In the ocean, these parameters are believed to be distributed in a manner that is not smoothly continuous. Rather, they seem to have a piecewise continuous distribution. This leads to a requirement to partition the ocean into a suite of provinces where the boundaries between the provinces mark the locations of abrupt changes in the magnitudes of the rate parameters. The area covered by a particular province represents an area of common physical forcing, insofar as the forcing is relevant to autotrophic production. The boundaries are taken to be elastic rather than fixed, such that they can respond to variations in forcing. At any given time, the boundaries can be located with the aid of remotely sensed imagery, especially ocean-color imagery.
25470327|Non-native brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) were eradicated from alpine Bighorn Lake, Alberta, Canada, to test whether strong cascading trophic interactions (CTI) can occur in oligotrophic, high seston C:P, species-poor lakes. Fishless alpine Pipit Lake was used as a reference ecosystem. Bighorn Lake zooplankton biomass increased from 0.14:1 relative to Pipit Lake before fish removal began in 1997 to 0.6:1 afterwards due to an increase in the abundance of adult cyclopoid copepods beginning in 1997 and the reappearance of Daphnia middendorffiana in 1998. Following the reappearance of Daphnia, Bighorn Lake total phytoplankton biomass fell from 64:1 relative to Pipit Lake to 0.9:1. Over the same periods Bighorn Lake:Pipit Lake chlorophyll-a ratios declined from 2.4:1 to 1.6:1, although the decrease was not statistically significant. Mid-summer Secchi disc depth in Bighorn Lake increased from 3.1 m before manipulation to 9.2 m, the maximum depth of the lake, in 2001 and 2002. Increased transparency was most likely due to increased filtration of suspended inorganic particles from the water column by higher abundances of large zooplankton. Post-manipulation increases in dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN), DIN:total dissolved phosphorus (TDP) ratio and declines in TDP in Bighorn Lake were not attributable to ecosystem manipulation, similar changes were observed in reference Pipit Lake. We conclude that strong pelagic CTI, expressed as change in total phytoplankton biomass and largely mediated by Daphnia, can occur in oligotrophic, high seston C:P, species-poor ecosystems. However, strong CTI responses in phytoplankton biomass may lag trophic manipulation by several years.
40603415|Recent research has concluded that forest wildfires in the western United States are becoming larger and more frequent. A more significant question may be whether the ecosystem impacts of wildfire are also increasing. We show that a large area (approximately 120000 km) of California and western Nevada experienced a notable increase in the extent of forest stand-replacing (" high severity") fire between 1984 and 2006. High severity forest fire is closely linked to forest fragmentation, wildlife habitat availability, erosion rates and sedimentation, post-fire seedling recruitment, carbon sequestration, and various other ecosystem properties and processes. Mean and maximum fire size, and the area burned annually have also all risen substantially since the beginning of the 1980s, and are now at or above values from the decades preceding the 1940s, when fire suppression became national policy. These trends are occurring in concert with a regional rise in temperature and a long-term increase in annual precipitation. A close examination of the climate-fire relationship and other evidence suggests that forest fuels are no longer limiting fire occurrence and behavior across much of the study region. We conclude that current trends in forest fire severity necessitate a reexamination of the implications of all-out fire suppression and its ecological impacts.
25053877|Ecosystem structure and function are strongly affected by disturbance events, many of which in North America are associated with seasonal temperature extremes, wildfires, and tropical storms. This study was conducted to evaluate patterns in a 19-year record of global satellite observations of vegetation phenology from the advanced very high resolution radiometer (AVHRR) as a means to characterize major ecosystem disturbance events and regimes. The fraction absorbed of photosynthetically active radiation (FPAR) by vegetation canopies worldwide has been computed at a monthly time interval from 1982 to 2000 and gridded at a spatial resolution of 8-km globally. Potential disturbance events were identified in the FPAR time series by locating anomalously low values (FPAR-LO) that lasted longer than 12 consecutive months at any 8-km pixel. We can find verifiable evidence of numerous disturbance types across North America, including major regional patterns of cold and heat waves, forest fires, tropical storms, and large-scale forest logging. Summed over 19 years, areas potentially influenced by major ecosystem disturbances (one FPAR-LO event over the period 1982-2000) total to more than 766,000
3658692|Although there is a widespread belief that phosphorus (P) limits basic ecosystem processes in moist tropical forests, direct tests of this supposition are rare. At the same time, it is generally believed that P does not limit soil microorganism respiration or growth in terrestrial ecosystems. We used natural gradients in P fertility created by soils of varying age underlying tropical rain forests in southwestern Costa Rica, combined with direct manipulations of carbon (C) and P supply, to test the effects of P availability on the decomposition of multiple forms of C, including dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and soil organic carbon (SOC). Results from a combination of laboratory and field experiments suggest that C decomposition in old, highly weathered oxisol soils is strongly constrained by P availability. In addition, P additions to these soils (no C added) also revealed that microbial utilization of at least labile fractions of SOC was also P limited. To our knowledge, this is the first direct evidence of P limitation of microbial processes in tropical rain forest soil. We suggest that P limitation of microbial decomposition may have profound implications for C cycling in moist tropical forests, including their potential response to increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide. Furthermore, this site is still relatively rich in P when compared to many other tropical forests on old soils; thus, we believe that P limitation of soil microorganisms throughout the humid tropics is a possibility.
41505954|Strong tropical storms are known to affect forest structure, composition, and nutrient cycles in both tropical and temperate regions, although our understanding of these effects disproportionally comes from regions experiencing much lower cyclone frequency than many forests in the Northwest Pacific. We summarized the effects of typhoons on forest dynamics at Fushan Experimental Forest (FEF) in northeastern Taiwan, which averages 0.49 major typhoons annually, and compared their resistance and resilience to those of forests in other regions. Typhoons cause remarkably few tree falls at FEF; multiple typhoons in 1994 felled only 1.4% of canopy trees, demonstrating high structural resistance. The most important effect of typhoons in this ecosystem is defoliation, which maintains high understory light levels and enhances heterogeneity, sustaining diversity without large canopy gaps. The vulnerability of taller trees to being blown down has resulted in the short-stature FEF (mean canopy height is 10.2 m). As the FEF is P-limited and a large fraction of total annual P export occurs during typhoons, these storms may have the effect of reducing productivity over time. DIN and K export only remain elevated for days at FEF, in contrast to the several years observed in Puerto Rico. High resilience is also evident in the rapid recovery of leaf area following typhoons. Heavy defoliation and slow decomposition are among the processes responsible for the high resistance and resilience of FEF to typhoon disturbance. These key structural features may emerge in other forest ecosystems if the frequency of major storms increases with climate change.
3658824| As the evidence of global climate change continues to mount, its consequences for cropland productivity assume particular significance. Against the backdrop of past agricultural practices, simulation models offer a glimpse into the future, showing the effect of temperature changes on crop production. In this study, we first quantified the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) budgets of Ohio's cropland ecosystems using inventory yield data of corn for grain, oat, and all wheat for the period 1866-1996 and soybean for the period 1924-96. Then we explored the responses of Ohio's continuous soybean croplands to changes in temperature, carbon dioxide ( CO
40296327|The exchange of water between the main channel of the tidal freshwater Hudson River and its tidal wetlands is a large proportion of the whole-river water volume and causes large changes in concentrations of some dissolved and suspended constituents. Ten representative wetlands were assessed for their ability to alter quantities of inorganic nutrients, suspended particles, dissolved organic carbon (DOC), and dissolved oxygen during tidal exchange. The majority of sites acted as sinks for oxygen and nitrate and as sources of DOC. For other variables such as phosphate and pigments, individual wetlands varied broadly in both the direction and magnitude of change. For some variables (oxygen, DOC) we found mechanistically plausible predictors for the magnitude of alteration. The proportional coverage of submerged vegetation or intertidal marsh graminoid vegetation was related to the degree of change in oxygen and DOC. For most cases, however, we did not find strong predictors and we attribute this to the spatial positioning of "hot spots" or redundancy in the processes actually responsible for the transformation. Our ability to predict ecosystem performance from whole-ecosystem attributes may be impeded by lack of consideration of within-system spatial contingencies or lack of knowledge of which process is actually responsible for the observed alteration in material flux.
25470317|Nitrogen (N) is a critical limiting nutrient that regulates plant productivity and the cycling of other essential elements in forests. We measured foliar and soil nutrients in 22 young Douglas-fir stands in the Oregon Coast Range to examine patterns of nutrient availability across a gradient of N-poor to N-rich soils. N in surface mineral soil ranged from 0.15 to 1.05% N, and was positively related to a doubling of foliar N across sites. Foliar N in half of the sites exceeded 1.4% N, which is considered above the threshold of N-limitation in coastal Oregon Douglas-fir. Available nitrate increased five-fold across this gradient, whereas exchangeable magnesium (Mg) and calcium (Ca) in soils declined, suggesting that nitrate leaching influences base cation availability more than soil parent material across our sites. Natural abundance strontium isotopes (Sr/Sr) of a single site indicated that 97% of available base cations can originate from atmospheric inputs of marine aerosols, with negligible contributions from weathering. Low annual inputs of Ca relative to Douglas-fir growth requirements may explain why foliar Ca concentrations are highly sensitive to variations in soil Ca across our sites. Natural abundance calcium isotopes (Ca) in exchangeable and acid leachable pools of surface soil measured at a single site showed 1 per mil depletion relative to deep soil, suggesting strong Ca recycling to meet tree demands. Overall, the biogeochemical response of these Douglas-fir forests to gradients in soil N is similar to changes associated with chronic N deposition in more polluted temperate regions, and raises the possibility that Ca may be deficient on excessively N-rich sites. We conclude that wide gradients in soil N can drive non-linear changes in base-cation biogeochemistry, particularly as forests cross a threshold from N-limitation to N-saturation. The most acute changes may occur in forests where base cations are derived principally from atmospheric inputs.
41413041|Trends of increasing agricultural trade, increased concentration of livestock production systems, and increased human consumption of livestock products influence the distribution of nutrients across the global landscape. Phosphorus (P) represents a unique management challenge as we are rapidly depleting mineable reserves of this essential and non-renewable resource. At the same time, its overuse can lead to pollution of aquatic ecosystems. We analyzed the relative contributions of food crop, feed crop, and livestock product trade to P flows through agricultural soils for 12 countries from 1961 to 2007. Due to the intensification of agricultural production, average soil surface  balances more than tripled from 6 to 21 kg P ha between 1961 and2007 for the 12study countries. Consequently, countries that are primarily agricultural exporters carried increased risks for water pollution or, for Argentina, reduced soil fertility due to soil P mining to support exports. In 2007, nations imported food and feed from regions with higher apparent P fertilizer use efficiencies than if those crops were produced domestically. However, this was largely because imports were sourced from regions depleting soil P resources to support export crop production. In addition, the pattern of regional specialization and intensification of production systems also reduced the potential to recycle P resources, with greater implications for livestock production than crop production. In a globalizing world, it will be increasingly important to integrate biophysical constraints of our natural resources and environmental impacts of agricultural systems into trade policy and agreements and to develop mechanisms that move us closer to more equitable management of nonrenewable resources such as phosphorus.
25053804|We elucidate spatial controls of wind and fire disturbance across northern Wisconsin (USA), where climatic and topographic gradients are not strong, using data from the original US Public Land Survey (PLS) notes. These records contain information on the location and extent of heavy windthrows and stand-replacing fires prior to Euro-American settlement. The spatial patterns of windthrow and fire were spatially clustered at all scales in this historical environment, with stronger associations at local than regional scales. Logistic regression shows environmental variables to have a strong influence on this pattern. In the case of heavy windthrow, environmental drivers of disturbance pattern are fairly consistent across the region. The effects of climate and vegetation are predominant at all scales, but effects are often indirect, with strong interactions between them. Interactions between these two drivers and soil characteristics are also sometimes present. In contrast, models of stand-replacing fire show simple and direct control within and across fire-prone landscapes of historical northern Wisconsin, with climate and physiography as the main factors explaining the distribution of fire disturbance. This simple and direct control is lost at the regional scale, where climate, physiographic, soil, and vegetation variables, along with interactions between them, are significant factors. Contrary to other regions, the topographic effects are generally not important in predicting either wind or fire disturbance. Our work suggests that, in landscapes that lack strong environmental patterning, climate maintains its role as a primary driver of these natural disturbances, but topography is replaced by interactions and feedbacks with other forms of environmental heterogeneity.
3658939|A central goal of ecosystem ecology is to understand how the cycling of nutrients and the growth of organisms are linked. Ecologists have repeatedly observed that nutrient mineralization and plant production are closely coupled in time in many terrestrial ecosystems. Typically, mineralization rates of limiting nutrients, particularly of nitrogen, during the growing season determine nutrient availability while pools of mineral nutrients remain low and relatively constant. Although several previous reports suggest nitrogen mineralization has the potential to vary seasonally and out of phase with plant production, such a phenomenon has been poorly documented. Here we report results from a semiarid savanna ecosystem characterized by distinct temporal asynchrony in rates of soil nitrogen cycling and plant production. Periods of positive plant growth following the onset of rains coincide with periods of low N turnover rates, whereas higher rates occur late in the wet season following plant senescence and throughout dry seasons. Plant uptake from the substantial mineral N pool present early in the growing season is sufficient to explain most of the N allocation to aboveground plant biomass during the growing season, even in the absence of any wet-season mineralization. The mineral N pool is subsequently recharged by late wet- and dry-season mineralization, plus urine inputs at sites with high levels of ungulate activity. These findings suggest fundamental changes in the quality of substrates available to decomposers over a seasonal cycle, with significant implications for the partitioning of limiting nutrients by plant species, the seasonal pattern of nutrient limitations of aboveground production, and the effective use of N fertilizers in semiarid ecosystems.
3658834|We present a regional-historical approach to the interpretation, conservation, and management of pitch pine-scrub oak (PPSO) communities in the Connecticut Valley of Massachusetts. Historical studies, aerial photographs, GIS analyses, and extensive field sampling are used to (a) document changes in the historical distribution, composition, and dynamics of these communities, and (b) evaluate the importance of regional-historical approaches to understanding, conserving, and managing uncommon communities. At the time of European settlement, pine plains dominated by both pitch and white pine were widespread, occurring on 9000 ha or more of the extensive (approximately 32,000 ha) xeric outwash deposits in the Connecticut Valley. Pine plains were harvested for diverse forest products from the 17th to the early 19th centuries. After 1830, most sites were cleared and plowed for agriculture and then abandoned in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, resulting in widespread natural reforestation. Modern PPSO communities differ from historical communities with respect to landscape distribution, composition, and structure. Nearly all modern pitch pine stands in the Connecticut Valley became established on former agricultural fields. Current vegetation on these former fields differs substantially from those few sites that were never plowed. In particular, several species (for example, Gaultheria procumbens, Gaylussacia baccata, Quercus ilicifolia, and Q. prinoides) that are characteristic of unplowed sites have not successfully colonized former fields in the 50 to more than 100 years since agricultural abandonment. Urban, commercial, and residential development have been widespread in the 20th century. By 1985, only 38.6% of the outwash deposits remained forested, and only 1094 ha of pitch pine stands and 74 ha of scrub oak stands occurred, primarily in numerous small patches. Several stands have been destroyed since 1985, and development threatens all remaining sites. The trend towards rapid urban development in the 20th century makes it increasingly urgent that the few, relatively large, undeveloped sites be protected. Our results suggest that (a) land protection efforts should prioritize large, undeveloped sand plains, areas that were not plowed historically, and reestablishment of contiguity between isolated sites to facilitate colonization of former agricultural lands by sand plain species; (b) management of PPSO communities should not be restricted to maintenance of open barrens; "old-growth" pitch and white pine stands occurred historically, and some PPSO communities should be allowed to mature without frequent disturbance; (c) the exclusive use of prescribed fires during the spring months is unlikely to maintain communities similar to modern ones or to restore communities similar to historical ones. Establishment or maintenance of open barrens species and communities may require more varied disturbance regimes, perhaps including mechanical treatment in combination with prescribed fire to simulate severe summer fires; (d) regional-historical perspectives are critical for understanding modern community dynamics and for evaluating conservation objectives and management strategies for uncommon plant communities.
3658951|The Kyoto protocol has focused the attention of the public and policymarkers on the earth's carbon (C) budget. Previous estimates of the impacts of vegetation change have been limited to equilibrium "snapshots" that could not capture nonlinear or threshold effects along the trajectory of change. New models have been designed to complement equilibrium models and simulate vegetation succession through time while estimating variability in the C budget and responses to episodic events such as drought and fire. In addition, a plethora of future climate scenarios has been used to produce a bewildering variety of simulated ecological responses. Our objectives were to use an equilibrium model (Mapped Atmosphere-Plant-Soil system, or MAPSS) and a dynamic model (MC1) to (a) simulate changes in potential equilibrium vegetation distribution under historical conditions and across a wide gradient of future temperature changes to look for consistencies and trends among the many future scenarios, (b) simulate time-dependent changes in vegetation distribution and its associated C pools to illustrate the possible trajectories of vegetation change near the high and low ends of the temperature gradient, and (c) analyze the extent of the US area supporting a negative C balance. Both models agree that a moderate increase in temperature produces an increase in vegetation density and carbon sequestration across most of the US with small changes in vegetation types. Large increases in temperature cause losses of C with large shifts in vegetation types. In the western states, particularly southern California, precipitation and thus vegetation density increase and forests expand under all but the hottest scenarios. In the eastern US, particularly the Southeast, forests expand under the more moderate scenarios but decline under more severe climate scenarios, with catastrophic fires potentially causing rapid vegetation conversions from forest to savanna. Both models show that there is a potential for either positive or negative feedbacks to the atmosphere depending on the level of warming in the climate change scenarios.
25470366|The hydrochemical signatures of forested ecosystems are known to be determined by a time-variant combination of physical-hydrologic, geo-chemical, and biologic processes. We studied sub-surface potassium (K), calcium (Ca), and nitrate (NO) in an experimental red -pine mesocosm to determine how trees affect the behavior of these nutrients in soil water, both during growth and after a harvest disturbance. Solution chemistry was monitored for 2 years at the end of a 15-year period of tree growth, and then for 3 more years after harvest and removal of aboveground biomass. Concentrations were characterized by three distinct temporal patterns that we ascribe to changes in solute generation mechanisms. Prior to harvest, K soil-water concentrations were relatively uniform with depth, whereas Ca soil-water concentrations doubled with depth. Nitrate concentrations were below detection in soil water and discharge (drainage) water. Plant uptake and water/nutrient cycling exerted strong control during this interval. During the 1st year after harvest, K concentrations tripled in shallow soil water, relative to preharvest levels, and showed a strong seasonal peak in discharge that mimicked soil temperature. Summer soil temperatures and annual water flux also increased. Decomposition of labile litter, with complete nitrogen (N) immobilization, characterized this interval. In the third interval (years 2 and 3 after harvest), decomposition shifted from N to carbon (C) limitation, and Ca and NO concentrations in discharge spiked to nearly 200 and 400 M, respectively. Relatively stable ionic strength and carbonate chemistry in discharge, throughout the study period, indicate that carbonic-acid weathering was sustained by below-ground decomposition long after the harvest. This stable chemical weathering regime, along with the persistence of N limitation for a long period after disturbance, may be characteristic of early-phase primary-successional systems.
23253738|Nitrogen (N) fixation in the feather mosscyanobacteria association represents a major N source in boreal forests which experience low levels of N deposition; however, little is known about the effects of anthropogenic N inputs on the rate of fixation of atmospheric N 2 in mosses and the succeeding effects on soil nutrient concentrations and microbial community composition. We collected soil samples and moss shoots of Pleurozium schreberi at six distances along busy and remote roads in northern Sweden to assess the influence of road-derived N inputs on N 2 fixation in moss, soil nutrient concentrations and microbial communities. Soil nutrients were similar between busy and remote roads; N 2 fixation was higher in mosses along the remote roads than along the busy roads and increased with increasing distance from busy roads up to rates of N 2 fixation similar to remote roads. Throughfall N was higher in sites adjacent to the busy roads but showed no distance effect. Soil microbial phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) composition exhibited a weak pattern regarding road type. Concentrations of bacterial and total PLFAs decreased with increasing distance from busy roads, whereas fungal PLFAs showed no distance effect. Our results show that N 2 fixation in feather mosses is highly affected by N deposition, here derived from roads in northern Sweden. Moreover, as other measured factors showed only weak differences between the road types, atmospheric N 2 fixation in feather mosses represents a highly sensitive indicator for increased N loads to natural systems.
3658807|To test the hypothesis that long-term peat accumulation is related to contemporary carbon flux dynamics, we present the Peat Decomposition Model (PDM), a new model of long-term peat accumulation. Decomposition rates of the deeper peat are directly related to observable decomposition rates of fresh vegetation litter. Plant root effects (subsurface oxygenation and fresh litter inputs) are included. PDM considers two vegetation types, vascular and nonvascular, with different decomposition rates and aboveground and belowground litter input rates. We used PDM to investigate the sensitivities of peat accumulation in bogs and fens to productivity, root:shoot ratio, tissue decomposability, root and water table depths, and climate. Warmer and wetter conditions are more conducive to peat accumulation. Bogs are more sensitive than fens to climate conditions. Cooler and drier conditions lead to the lowest peat accumulation when productivity is more temperature sensitive than decomposition rates. We also compare peat age-depth profiles to field data. With a very general parameterization, PDM fen and bog age-depth profiles were similar to data from the the most recent 5000 years at three bog cores and a fen core in eastern Canada, but they overestimated accumulation at three other bog cores in that region. The model cannot reliably predict the amount of fen peat remaining from the first few millennia of a peatland's development. This discrepancy may relate to nonanalogue, early postglacial climatic and nutrient conditions for rich-fen peat accumulation and to the fate of this fen peat material, which is overlain by a bog as the peatland evolves, a common hydroseral succession in northern peatlands. Because PDM sensitivity tests point to these possible factors, we conclude that the static model represents a framework that shows a consistent relationship between contemporary productivity and fresh-tissue decomposition rates and observed long-term peat accumulation.
25053837|Decline of riparian forests has been attributed to hydrologic modifications to river flows. However, little is known about the physiological and structural adjustments of riparian forests subject to modified flow regimes, and the potential for forest restoration using historic flow regimes is poorly understood. In this paired river study, we compared hydrology, water relations, and forest structure in cottonwood-dominated floodplains of the regulated Green River to those of the unregulated Yampa River. We measured floodplain groundwater levels, soil water availability, cottonwood xylem pressure
23253697|Mangrove wetland restoration and creation efforts are increasingly proposed as mechanisms to compensate for mangrove wetland losses. However, ecosystem development and functional equivalence in restored and created mangrove wetlands are poorly understood. We compared a 20-year chronosequence of created tidal wetland sites in Tampa Bay, Florida (USA) to natural reference mangrove wetlands. Across the chronosequence, our sites represent the succession from salt marsh to mangrove forest communities. Our results identify important soil and plant structural differences between the created and natural reference wetland sites; however, they also depict a positive developmental trajectory for the created wetland sites that reflects tightly coupled plant-soil development. Because upland soils and/or dredge spoils were used to create the new mangrove habitats, the soils at younger created sites and at lower depths (1030 cm) had higher bulk densities, higher sand content, lower soil organic matter (SOM), lower total carbon (TC), and lower total nitrogen (TN) than did natural reference wetland soils. However, in the upper soil layer (010 cm), SOM, TC, and TN increased with created wetland site age simultaneously with mangrove forest growth. The rate of created wetland soil C accumulation was comparable to literature values for natural mangrove wetlands. Notably, the time to equivalence for the upper soil layer of created mangrove wetlands appears to be faster than for many other wetland ecosystem types. Collectively, our findings characterize the rate and trajectory of above- and below-ground changes associated with ecosystem development in created mangrove wetlands; this is valuable information for environmental managers planning to sustain existing mangrove wetlands or mitigate for mangrove wetland losses.
27823731|The surface of bogs is commonly patterned and composed of different vegetation communities, defined by water level. Carbon dioxide (CO2) dynamics vary spatially between the vegetation communities. An understanding of the controls on the spatial variation of CO2 dynamics is required to assess the role of bogs in the global carbon cycle. The water level gradient in a blanket bog was described and the CO2 exchange along the gradient investigated using chamber based measurements in combination with regression modelling. The aim was to investigate the controls on gross photosynthesis (PG), ecosystem respiration (RE) and net ecosystem CO2 exchange (NEE) as well as the spatial and temporal variation in these fluxes. Vegetation structure was strongly controlled by water level. The species with distinctive water level optima were separated into the opposite ends of the gradient in canonical correspondence analysis. The number of species and leaf area were highest in the intermediate water level range and these communities had the highest PG. Photosynthesis was highest when the water level was 11 cm below the surface. Ecosystem respiration, which includes decomposition, was less dependent on vegetation structure and followed the water level gradient more directly. The annual NEE varied from 115 to 768 g CO2 m2, being lowest in wet and highest in dry vegetation communities. The temporal variation was most pronounced in PG, which decreased substantially during winter, when photosynthetic photon flux density and leaf area were lowest. Ecosystem respiration, which is dependent on temperature, was less variable and wintertime RE fluxes constituted approximately 24% of the annual flux.
40296266|Vegetation growth models are used with remotely sensed and meteorological data to monitor terrestrial carbon dynamics at a range of spatial and temporal scales. Many of these models are based on a light-use efficiency equation and two-component model of whole-plant growth and maintenance respiration that have been parameterized for distinct vegetation types and biomes. This study was designed to assess the robustness of these parameters for predicting interannual plant growth and carbon exchange, and more specifically to address inconsistencies that may arise during forest disturbances and the loss of canopy foliage. A model based on the MODIS MOD 17 algorithm was parameterized for a mature upland hardwood forest by inverting CO flux tower observations during years when the canopy was not disturbed. This model was used to make predictions during a year when the canopy was 37% defoliated by forest tent caterpillars. Predictions improved after algorithms were modified to scale for the effects of diffuse radiation and loss of leaf area. Photosynthesis and respiration model parameters were found to be robust at daily and annual time scales regardless of canopy disturbance, and differences between modeled net ecosystem production and tower net ecosystem exchange were only approximately 2 g C m d and less than 23 g C m y . Canopy disturbance events such as insect defoliations are common in temperate forests of North America, and failure to account for cyclical outbreaks of forest tent caterpillars in this stand could add an uncertainty of approximately 4-13% in long-term predictions of carbon sequestration.
41505923|High-frequency measurements are increasingly available and used to model ecosystem processes. This growing capability provides the opportunity to resolve key drivers of ecosystem processes at a variety of scales. We use a unique series of highfrequency measures of potential predictors to analyze daily variation in rates of gross primary production (GPP), respiration (R), and net ecosystem production (NEP = GPP  R) for two north temperate lakes. Wind speed, temperature, light, precipitation, mixed layer depth, water column stability, chlorophyll a, chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM), and Zooplankton biomass were measured at daily or higher-frequency intervals over two summer seasons. We hypothesized that light, chlorophyll a, and Zooplankton biomass would be strongly related to variability in GPP. We also hypothesized that chlorophyll a, CDOM, and temperature would be most strongly related to variability in R, whereas NEP would be related to variation in chlorophyll a and CDOM. Consistent with our hypotheses, chlorophyll a was among the most important drivers of GPP, R, and NEP in these systems. However, multiple regression models did not necessarily include the other variables we hypothesized as most important. Despite the large number of potential predictor variables, substantial variance remained unexplained and models were inconsistent between years and between lakes. Drivers of GPP, R, and NEP were difficult to resolve at daily time scales where strong seasonal dynamics were absent. More complex models with greater integration of physical processes are needed to better identify the underlying drivers of short-term variability of ecosystem processes in lakes and other systems.
25053864|In semi-arid West Africa, livestock are increasingly managed by sedentary producers in close proximity to expanding cropped lands. To evaluate the agricultural and environmental implications of this trend, a study was conducted to investigate the effect of grazing management on the spatial distribution of grazing pressure, the forage provided animals during the grazing period, and local herd-forage ratios across three agropastoral landscapes characterized by varying cultivation pressure. During the 19-month study period, data on herbaceous vegetation, livestock populations, and grazing itineraries were collected. These data were referenced to land units averaging 70 ha in area. Using this approach, each of 3,819 grazing itineraries was characterized as to: 1. the sum of the products of the palatable forage mass of a particular land unit and the time spent grazing by the herd within that unit (FAT, expressed in kg-hours
25053825|The FLooded Uplands Dynamics EXperiment (FLUDEX) was designed to assess the impact of reservoir creation on carbon cycling in boreal forests by (a) determining whether production of the greenhouse gases (GHG) carbon dioxide
23501488|The relative contributions of double counting of carbon emissions between forest-to-nonforest cover change (FNCC) and forest wildfires are an unknown in estimating net forest carbon exchanges at large scales. This study employed land-cover change maps and forest fire data in the four representative states (Arkansas, California, Minnesota, and Washington) of the US for the period from 1992 to 2006 to evaluate forest carbon double counting effects based on land-cover change map, forest fire data, and USDA Forest Service Forest Inventory and Analysis data. The analyses were conducted at the county level and tallied to state level. Although the effects were small in the two eastern states because of small burned areas and low burn severity, substantial effects were found in the two western states. Carbon double counting was about 10 TgC (teragram 10 12 ) in California and 6 TgC in Washington for the period 19922006 (at rates of 0.7 and 0.4 TgC per year), or 21.9 and 7.6% relative to total forest carbon emissions through FNCC in the two states, respectively. The effects were 0.2 and 0.1% in Arkansas and Minnesota, respectively. Variation in double counting effects within the states was also much higher in the western states compared with the eastern states. Our results suggested a general pattern that rates and amounts of double counting in forest carbon emissions between FNCC and fires were more evident and substantially different on a westeast dimension than that on a northsouth dimension across the conterminous US during the study period.
25622888|Nutrient fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems are governed by complex biological and physical interactions. Ecologists' mechanistic understanding of these interactions has focused on biological controls including plant uptake and microbial processing. However, ecologists and hydrologists have recently demonstrated that physical controls are also important. Here, we show that within-site spatial variation in soil solution N concentrations is a function of soil clay content across a globally diverse array of field sites. Clay content explained 35 and 53% of the coefficient of variations (CV) in soil solution nitrate (NO) and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON), respectively. The CV of soil hydraulic conductivity is a similar function of clay content, suggesting that soil hydrology may be a significant mechanism affecting variation in soil solution N. Although vegetation physiognomy and soil C/N ratios are known to affect soil solution N concentrations, neither was significantly related to within-site spatial variation in NO or DON. However, the spatial variation of NO and DON was greater in younger forests than in paired older forests. Our data show that the heterogeneity of an important resource, soil solution N, is a predictable function of clay content. Resource heterogeneity, such as that described here for soil solution N, can affect population, community, and ecosystem processes.
25470320|There is disagreement among ecologists as to whether ecosystem system behavior in general is the net result of all of the complex internal system interactions (bottom-driven) or if the behavior is driven by a limited number of key processes (top-driven). If ecosystems are primarily bottom-driven in nature, then it is unlikely that any two complex ecosystems will ever behaviorally converge as a simple matter of probability, or that their behaviors will ever be predictable. Conversely, evidence of ecosystem convergence would suggest that the systems are top-driven, with the corollary that their behaviors can be understood (and therefore in principle predicted) without a complete understanding of their internal workings. Research has demonstrated that body mass distributions of terrestrial animals broadly reflect ecosystem function. Thus, comparable but causally disconnected terrestrial ecosystems that demonstrate similar body mass distributions would suggest ecosystem convergence. To look for this possible convergence, I generated body mass distributions in a time series for late Miocene North American mammal faunas from the Gulf Coastal Plains, Great Plains, and Pacific coastal region, and compared them with data from the modern Serengeti savanna region. The data show that during the early late Miocene Gulf Coastal Plain faunas resembled each other but were distinctly different from that of the Serengeti, the Great Plains fauna resembled the Serengeti, while the Pacific Coast fauna showed no resemblance to any of the others. However, during the latest Miocene the Gulf Coastal Plain faunas were transformed so as to strongly resemble the Serengeti fauna. The resemblance with the Serengeti was maintained by the Great Plains faunas until at least the end of the Miocene, while the Pacific Coast faunas remained distinctly different from the others. These findings suggest that the late Miocene ecosystems of the Gulf Coastal Plain and Great Plains regions (but not the Pacific Coast region) converged with that of the Serengeti savanna fauna and thus that these ecosystems were/are top-driven rather than bottom-driven in nature.
3658599|A phosphorus (P) budget was calculated for the agriculture-dominated Lake Mendota watershed located in Dane and Columbia Counties, Wisconsin, USA. P inputs included fertilizer for agricultural crops and lawns, dietary supplements for dairy cattle, and natural inputs such as dry and wet deposition. Outputs included agricultural crops, livestock and livestock products, and hydrologic export to Lake Mendota. The total P input to the watershed (
41505986|In this study, three cities located in the U. S. Corn Belt are evaluated for impacts of past (19922001) and projected (20012030) urban expansion on ecosystem goods and services, with a specific focus on changes in energy balance, hydrology, and productivity. Scenarios for high-, medium- and low-density urban areas are simulated using a dynamic agro-ecosystem model (Agro-IBIS), by incorporating new parameterizations for impervious surfaces and turf grass. Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) 500-m albedo data and remote sensing-derived 30-m resolution maps from the U.S. National Land Cover Database are used as model input to simulate biogeochemical, thermodynamic, and hydrological cycles for a range of land-cover types in each region. The results show that the expanding urban areas have a significant impact on each city's capacity to regulate climate and flooding. High-density urban areas, for instance, have soil surface temperatures up to 6C higher than soils within natural and managed ecosystems. Expansion of turf grass in residential areas could require an additional 8105 million m of water use annually, which increases runoff by 1548% and reduces the capacity to respond/adapt to flooding. Finally, the analysis shows that net primary productivity (NPP) decreases as expected due to the removal of cropland, forests, and grasslands in favor of development, but increased urban turf grass provides an annual offset of 40210 g C m. Urban expansion through 2030 is estimated to lower total annual crop production by 8.1, 8.6, and 16.7% for the Madison, Peoria, and Indianapolis regions, respectively. Given current projections for city growth to exceed 23% per year in the north-central U.S., urban expansion across a nine-state region in the Corn Belt could potentially take an additional 210,000-310,000 ha of farmland out of production annually at a time when demand for food, fuel, and fiber is increasing. Because conversion of cropland to urban uses is nearly always unidirectional, any changes to ecosystem goods and services due to urbanization are likely to be permanent and irreversible.
25053892|Building resilience in integrated human and nature systems or social-ecological systems (SES) is key for sustainability. Therefore, developing ways of assessing resilience is of practical as well as theoretical significance. We approached the issue by focusing on the local level and using five lagoon systems from various parts of the world for illustration. We used a framework based on four categories of factors for building resilience: (1) learning to live with change and uncertainty; (2) nurturing diversity for reorganization and renewal; (3) combining different kinds of knowledge; and (4) creating opportunity for self-organization. Under each category, the cases generated a number of items for building resilience, and potential surrogates of resilience, that is, variables through which the persistence of SES emerging through change can be assessed. The following factors were robust across all five lagoon SES cases: learning from crisis, responding to change, nurturing ecological memory, monitoring the environment, and building capacity for self-organization and conflict management.
3658652|Studies of long-term soil and ecosystem development on static geomorphic surfaces show that old soils become depleted in most rock-derived nutrients. As they are depleted, however, static surfaces also are dissected by fluvial erosion. This fluvial erosion leads to colluvial soil transport on the resulting slopes, which in turn can rejuvenate the supply of weathering-derived nutrients to plants. We evaluated the influence of erosion and consequent landscape evolution on nutrient availability along a slope on the Island of Kaua'i, near the oldest, most nutrient-depleted site on a substrate age gradient across the Hawaiian Islands. Noncrystalline minerals characteristic of younger Hawaiian soils increased from 3% of the soil on the static constructional surface at the top of the slope to 13% on the lower slope, and the fraction of soil phosphorus (P) that was occluded (and hence unavailable) decreased from 80% to 56% at mid-slope. Foliar nitrogen and P concentrations in Metrosideros polymorpha increased from 0.82% and 0.062% to 1.13% and 0.083% on the constructional surface and lower slope, respectively. The increase in foliar P over a horizontal difference of less than 250 m represents nearly half of the total variation in foliar P observed over 4.1 million years of soil and ecosystem development in Hawai'i. The fraction of foliar strontium (Sr) derived from weathering of Hawaiian basalt was determined using
41505967|Groundwaters are increasingly viewed as resource-limited ecosystems in which fluxes of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from surface water are efficiently mineralized by a consortium of microorganisms which are grazed by invertebrates. We tested for the effect of groundwater recharge on resource supply and trophic interactions by measuring physico-chemistry, microbial activity and biomass, structure of bacterial communities and invertebrate density at three sites intensively recharged with surface water. Comparison of measurements made in recharge and control well clusters at each site showed that groundwater recharge significantly increased fluxes of DOC and phosphate, elevated groundwater temperature, and diminished dissolved oxygen (DO). Microbial biomass and activity were significantly higher in recharge well clusters but stimulation of autochthonous microorganisms was not associated with a major shift in bacterial community structure. Invertebrate assemblages were not significantly more abundant in recharge well clusters and did not show any relationship with microbial biomass and activity. Microbial communities were bottom-up regulated by DOC and nutrient fluxes but trophic interactions between microorganisms and invertebrates were apparently limited by environmental stresses, particularly DO depletion and groundwater warming. Hydrological connectivity is a key factor regulating the function of DOC-based groundwater food webs as it influences both resource availability for microorganisms and environmental stresses which affect energy transfer to invertebrates and top-down control on microorganisms.
3658725|We measured nitrogenase activity (acetylene reduction) of asymbiotic, heterotrophic, nitrogen-fixing bacteria on leaf litter from the tree Metrosideros polymorpha collected from six sites on the Hawaiian archipelago. At all sites M. polymorpha was the dominant tree, and its litter was the most abundant on the forest floor. The sites spanned a soil chronosequence of 300 to 4.1 million y. We estimated potential nitrogen fixation associated with this leaf litter to be highest at the youngest site
40928228|In addition to potential benefits, biotechnology in silviculture may also be associated with environmental considerations, including effects on organisms associated with the living tree and on ecosystems and processes dependent on tree residue. We examined whether genetic modification of lignin characteristics (CAD and COMT) in Populus sp. affected leaf litter quality, the decomposition of leaf litter, and the assemblages of aquatic insects colonizing the litter in three natural streams. The decomposition of leaf litter from one of the genetically modified (GM) lines (CAD) was affected in ways that were comparable over streams and harvest dates. After 84 days in streams, CAD-litter had lost approximately 6.1 % less mass than the non-GM litter. Genetic modification also affected the concentration of phenolics and carbon in the litter but this only partially explained the decomposition differences, suggesting that other factors were also involved. Insect community analyses comparing GM and non-GM litter showed no significant differences, and the two GM litters showed differences only in the 84-day litterbags. The total abundance and species richness of insects were also similar on GM and non-GM litter. The results presented here suggest that genetic modifications in trees can influence litter quality and thus have a potential to generate effects that can cross ecosystem boundaries and influence ecosystem processes not directly associated with the tree. Overall, the realized ecological effects of the GM tree varieties used here were nevertheless shown to be relatively small.
25053827|We evaluated several factors influencing the taxonomic richness of macrophytes, benthic invertebrates, snails, and fish in a series of northern Wisconsin lakes. We chose the study lakes to decouple the potential effects of ionic strength of lake water and stream connection, two factors that are usually highly correlated and therefore have been confounded in previous studies. In addition, our study lakes covered a wide range in a variety of characteristics, including residential development, abundance of exotic species, nutrient concentrations, predator abundance, and lake size. Species richness within each of the four taxonomic groups was significantly positively related to ionic strength (as measured by specific conductance); we also found secondary associations with other variables, depending on the specific group of organisms. The relationship between richness and lake area was dependent on the specific conductance of the lake and the vagility of the organisms; less vagile groups of organisms showed stronger and steeper species-area relationships in low-conductivity lakes. Further, after variance owing to specific conductance was removed, the presence of stream connections was positively related to species richness for fish, snails, and macrophytes as well as familial richness in benthic invertebrates. Our results indicate that lakes with relatively more groundwater input have lower extinction rates for all four groups of taxa and that lakes with stream inlets and outlets have enhanced immigration rates for fish, snails, benthic invertebrate families, and macrophytes. These findings link processes of immigration and extinction of four groups of organisms of varying vagility to landscape-level hydrologic characteristics related to the glacial history of the region.
40603639|The Mackenzie River Delta, a floodplain system in the western Canadian Arctic contains approximately 45,000 lakes used by resident and migratory fish, aquatic birds, and mammal populations, which are critical resources for aboriginal peoples.Our reslts show the Mackenzie Delta is a remarkably productive aquatic ecosystem, not out of place relative to other large river floodplains and unusually productive for its Arctic latitude. Along with other such deltas of north flowing rivers to the Arctic Ocean, it represents a critical habitat of high productivity to support dependent consumers. Our results also showed a consistent under-saturation of CO in lake waters of the delta, co-occurring even with high concentrations of dissolved organic carbon, and indicating P: R greater than 1 during the open water period. In less turbid lakes, abundant macrophytes provide a considerable surface area for supporting production of epiphyton, but epiphyton production is constrained strongly by macrophyte shading, when macrophyte biomass is high. Despite this, epiphyton represented a greater supply of non-macrophyte algal carbon than phytoplankton, and thus explains why benthic algae may be a more important food source for primary consumers than phytoplankton, except in the most turbid systems. Most importantly, the high autotrophic production in the Delta lakes relative to nearby lakes on the arctic tundra suggests the extended ice-free season of the floodplain lakes and their landscape setting on, and replenishment by, nutrient-richriversediments, is the strongest influence on aquatic production levels.
25470385|Although the effects of anthropogenic nitrogen (N) inputs on the dynamics of inorganic N in watersheds have been studied extensively, "the influence of N enrichment on organic N loss" is not as well understood. We compiled and synthesized data on surface water N concentrations from 348 forested and human-dominated watersheds with a range of N loads (from less than 100 to 7,100 kg N km y) to evaluate the effects of N loading via atmospheric deposition, fertilization, and wastewater on dissolved organic N (DON) concentrations. Our results indicate that, on average, DON accounts for half of the total dissolved N (TDN) concentrations from forested watersheds, but it accounts for a smaller fraction of TDN in runoff from urban and agricultural watersheds with higher N loading. A significant but weak correlation (r = 0.06) suggests that N loading has little influence on DON concentrations in forested watersheds. This result contrasts with observations from some plot-scale N fertilization studies and suggests that variability in watershed characteristics and climate among forested watersheds may be a more important control on DON losses than N loading from atmospheric sources. Mean DON concentrations were positively correlated, however, with N load across the entire land-use gradient (r = 0.37, P < 0.01), with the highest concentrations found in agricultural and urban watersheds. We hypothesize that both direct contributions of DON from wastewater and agricultural amendments and indirect transformations of inorganic N to organic N represent important sources of DON to surface waters in human-dominated watersheds. We conclude that DON is an important component of N loss in surface waters draining forested and human-dominated watersheds and suggest several research priorities that may be useful in elucidating the role of N enrichment in watershed DON dynamics.
3658955| The high-arctic terrestrial environment is generally recognized as one of the world's most sensitive areas with regard to global warming. In this study, we examined the influence of an isolated warm period on net ecosystem carbon dioxide ( CO
27823672|Stream export of nitrogen (N) as nitrate (NO3; the most mobile form of N) from forest ecosystems is thought to be controlled largely by plant uptake of inorganic N, such that reduced demand for plant N during the non-growing season and following disturbances results in increased stream NO3 export. The roles of microbes and soils in ecosystem N retention are less clear, but are the dominant controls on N export when plant uptake is low. We used a mass balance approach to investigate soil N retention during winter (December through March) at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest by comparing NO3 inputs (atmospheric deposition), internal production (soil microbial nitrification), and stream output. We focused on months when plant N uptake is nearly zero and the potential for N export is high. Although winter months accounted for only 1015% of annual net nitrification, soil NO3 production (0.81.0 g N m2 winter1) was much greater than stream export (0.030.19 N m2 winter1). Soil NO3 retention in two consecutive winters was high (96% of combined NO3 deposition and soil production; year 1) even following severe plant disturbance caused by an ice-storm (84%; year 2) We show that soil NO3 retention is surprisingly high even when N demand by plants is low. Our study highlights the need to better understand mechanisms of N retention during the non-growing season to predict how ecosystems will respond to high inputs of atmospheric N, disturbance, and climate change.
40792951|Increased nitrogen (N) deposition caused by human activities has altered ecosystem functioning and biodiversity. To understand the effects of altered  availability, we measured the abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and the microbial community in northern hardwood forests exposed to long-term (12 years) simulated  deposition (30 kg N ha y) using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis and hyphal in-growth bags. Intra* and extraradical AMF biomass and total microbial biomass were significantly decreased by simulated N deposition by 36, 41, and 24%, respectively. Both methods of extraradical AMF biomass estimation (soil PLFA 16:15c and hyphal in-growth bags) showed comparable treatment responses, and extraradical biomass represented the majority of total (intra-plus extraradical) AMF biomass. N deposition also significantly affected the microbial community structure, leading to a 10% decrease in fungal to bacterial biomass ratios. Our observed decline in AMF and total microbial biomass together with changes in microbial community structure could have substantial impacts on the nutrient and carbon cycling within northern hardwood forest ecosystems.
40603648|Little research has been conducted on effects of iteroparous anadromous fishes on Arctic lakes. We investigated trophic ecology, fish growth, and food web structure in six lakes located in Nunavut, Canada; three lakes contained anadromous Arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus) whereas three lakes did not contain Arctic charr. All lakes contained forage fishes and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush; top predator). Isotope ratios ( C, N) of fishes and invertebrates did not differ between lakes with and without anadromous Arctic charr; if anadromous Arctic charr deliver marine-derived nutrients and/or organic matter to freshwater lakes, these inputs could not be detected with C and/or N. Lake trout carbon (C): nitrogen (N) and condition were significantly higher in lakes with Arctic charr (C:N = 3.42, K = 1.1) than in lakes without Arctic charr (C:N = 3.17, K= 0.99), however, and ninespine stickleback (Pungitius pungitius) condition was significantly lower in lakes with Arctic charr (K = 0.58) than in lakes without Arctic charr (K= 0.64). Isotope data indicated that pre-smolt and resident Arctic charr may be prey for lake trout and compete with ninespine stickleback. Linear distance metrics applied to isotope data showed that food webs were more compact and isotopically redundant in lakes where Arctic charr were present. Despite this, lake trout populations in lakes with Arctic charr occupied a larger isotope space and showed greater inter-individual isotope differences. Anadromous Arctic charr appear to affect ecology and feeding of sympatric freshwater species, but effects are more subtle than those seen for semelparous anadromous species.
25470395|As invasive plants become a greater threat to native ecosystems, we need to improve our understanding of the factors underlying their success and persistence. Over the past 30 years, the C nonnative plant Bromus inermis (smooth brome) has been spreading throughout the central grasslands in North America. Invasion by this grass has resulted in the local displacement of natives, including the tallgrass species Panicum virgatum (switchgrass). To determine if factors related to resource availability and plant-soil interactions were conferring a competitive advantage on smooth brome, field plots were set up under varying nitrogen (N) levels. Plots composed of a 1:1 ratio of smooth brome and switchgrass were located in a restored tallgrass prairie and were randomly assigned one of the following three N levels: (a) NHNO added to increase available N, (b) sucrose added to reduce available N, and (c) no additions to serve as control. In addition, soil N status, soil respiration rates, plant growth, and litter decomposition rates were monitored. Results indicate that by the 2nd year, the addition of sucrose significantly reduced available soil N and additions of NHNO increased it. Further, smooth brome had greater tiller density, mass, and canopy interception of light on N-enriched soils, whereas none of these characteristics were stimulated by added N in the case of switch-grass. This suggests that smooth brome may have a competitive advantage on higher-N soils. Smooth-brome plant tissue also had a lower carbon-nitrogen (C:N) ratio and a higher decomposition rate than switchgrass and thus may cycle N more rapidly in the plant-soil system. These differences suggest a possible mechanism for the persistence of smooth brome in the tallgrass prairie: Efficient recycling of nutrient-rich litter under patches of smooth brome may confer a competitive advantage that enables it to persist in remnant or restored prairies. Increased N deposition associated with human activity and changing land use may play a critical role in the persistence of smooth brome and other N-philic exotic species.
40603658|Little is known about how tropical forest canopies interact with atmospheric nitrogen deposition and how this affects the internal nutrient dynamics and the processing of external nutrient inputs. The objectives of this study therefore were (1) to investigate gross and net canopy nitrogen (N) fluxes (retention and leaching) and (2) the effect of canopy components on net canopy N retention. Tracers were applied on detached branches in a tropical wet lowland rainforest, Costa Rica. A novel N pool dilution method showed that gross canopy fluxes (retention and leaching) of NO, NH , and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) were remarkably higher than net throughfall fluxes. Gross fluxes of NH and NO resulted in a negligible net flux whereas DON showed net uptake by the canopy. The highest quantity of N was recovered in epiphytic bryophytes (16.4%) although the largest biomass fraction was made up of leaves. The study demonstrates that tracer applications allow investigation of the dynamic and complex canopy exchange processes and that epiphytic communities play a major role in solute fluxes in tree canopies and therefore in the nutrient dynamics of tropical rain forests.
25470406|Coastal eutrophication may alter the dominance patterns of marine macroalgae, with potential consequences for the associated fauna and the entire ecosystem. Benthic macroalgae and animals in control and nutrient-enriched mesocosms were monitored to investigate eutrophication-induced changes in rocky shore communities. During a 3-year project, nutrient addition had only minor effects on the community structure, such as increased cover and biomass of green Ulva spp. and increased abundance of certain animal species at high nutrient levels. This study is a 4-year extension of a previously reported project, with 2 extra years of effect studies (altogether 5 years) and a subsequent 2 years for recovery. During the 4th year of nutrient enrichment, the cover of Fucus vesiculosus and Fucus serratus started to decline. In the 5th year, these canopy species crashed and there was an evident take-over by green algae at high nutrient addition levels. The previously observed abundance stimulation for fauna disappeared later in the time series, probably due to the loss of the macroalgal canopy. After less than 2 years on regular seawater, the algal and animal communities had returned to within the range of normal variability. The results indicate that established rocky shore communities of perennial algae with associated fauna are able to persist for several years, even at very high nutrient levels, but that community shifts may suddenly occur if eutrophication continues. They also indicate that rocky shore communities have the ability to return rapidly to natural undisturbed conditions after the termination of nutrient enhancement.
27823761|Forest age structure and its spatial arrangement are important elements of sustainable forestry because of their effects on biodiversity and timber availability. Forest management objectives that include specific forest age structure may not be easily attained due to constraints imposed by the legacies of historical management and natural disturbance. We used a spatially explicit stochastic model to explore the synergetic effects of forest management and fire on boreal forest age structure. Specifically, we examined (1) the duration of spatial legacies of different management practices in the boreal forest, (2) how multiple shifts in management practices affect legacy duration and the spatial trajectories of forest age structure, and (3) how fire influences legacy duration and pattern development in combination with harvesting. Results based on 30 replicates of 500 years for each scenario indicate that (1) spatial legacies persist over 200 years and the rate at which legacies are overcome depends on whether new management targets are in synchrony with existing spatial pattern; (2) age specific goals were met faster after multiple management shifts due to the similar spatial scale of the preceding management types; (3) because large fires can erase the spatial pattern created by smaller disturbances, scenarios with fire had shorter lags than scenarios without fire. These results suggest that forest management goals can be accelerated by applying management at a similar spatial scale as existing spatial patterns. Also, management planning should include careful consideration of historical management as well as current and likely future disturbances.
43677521|Woody debris decay rates have recently received much attention because of the need to quantify temporal changes in forest carbon stocks. Published decay rates, available for many species, are commonly used to characterize deadwood biomass and carbon depletion. However, decay rates are often derived from reductions in wood density through time, which when used to model biomass and carbon depletion are known to underestimate rate loss because they fail to account for volume reduction (changes in log shape) as decay progresses. We present a method for estimating changes in log volume through time and illustrate the method using a chronosequence approach. The method is based on the observation, confirmed herein, that decaying logs have a collapse ratio (cross-sectional height/width) that can serve as a surrogate for the volume remaining. Combining the resulting volume loss with concurrent changes in wood density from the same logs then allowed us to quantify biomass and carbon depletion for three study species. Results show that volume, density, and biomass follow distinct depletion curves during decomposition. Volume showed an initial lag period (log dimensions remained unchanged), even while wood density was being reduced. However, once volume depletion began, biomass loss (the product of density and volume depletion) occurred much more rapidly than density alone. At the temporal limit of our data, the proportion of the biomass remaining was roughly half that of the density remaining. Accounting for log volume depletion, as demonstrated in this study, provides a comprehensive characterization of deadwood decomposition, thereby improving biomassloss and carbon-accounting models.
3658812|We used long-term laboratory incubations and chemical fractionation to characterize the mineralization dynamics of organic soils from tussock, shrub, and wet meadow tundra communities, to determine the relationship between soil organic matter (SOM) decomposition and chemistry, and to quantify the relative proportions of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) in tundra SOM that are biologically available for decomposition. In all soils but shrub, we found little decline in respiration rates over 1 year, although soils respired approximately a tenth to a third of total soil C. The lack of decline in respiration rates despite large C losses indicates that the quantity of organic matter available was not controlling respiration and thus suggests that something else was limiting microbial activity. To determine the nature of the respired C, we analyzed soil chemistry before and after the incubation using a peat fractionation scheme. Despite the large losses of soil C, SOM chemistry was relatively unchanged after the incubation. The decomposition dynamics we observed suggest that tundra SOM, which is largely plant detritus, fits within existing concepts of the litter decay continuum. The lack of changes in organic matter chemistry indicates that this material had already decomposed to the point where the breakdown of labile constituents was tied to lignin decomposition. N mineralization was correlated with C mineralization in our study, but shrub soil mineralized more and tussock soil less N than would have been predicted by this correlation. Our results suggest that a large proportion of tundra SOM is potentially mineralizable, despite the fact that decomposition was dependent on ligning breakdown, and that the historical accumulation of organic matter in tundra soils is the result of field conditions unfavorable to decomposition and not the result of fundamental chemical limitations to decomposition. Our study also suggests that the anticipated increases in shrub dominance may substantially alter the dynamics of SOM decomposition in the tundra.
3658974|Ecosystems and city systems often form hierarchically structured landscapes whose spatial pattern is scale dependent. While trends in the upper tail of national city-size distributions leave the impression that fractal-scaling laws such as Zipf's law or the rank-size rule truly represent the essence of the system, the linearity depicted at aggregate scale actually obscures variation and discontinuity in the urban size-density function, including multimodalities evident in regional data sets. Tracing individual city trajectories through these hierarchical patterns reveals structural resilience at macroscopic scale, the punctuated growth of individual cities of differing sizes, the persistence and self-reinforcing character of spatial agglomeration, and a general need for further empirical investigation of the relationship between city size and growth. It also raises questions for future exploration, including the meaning of persistent departures from the power laws of traditional urban systems theory. Interpretation of such departures in the context of questions of jurisdictional scale in environmental management and "smart growth" policy adds a practical dimension to the research agenda.
3658705| A major environmental restoration effort is under way that will affect the Everglades and its neighboring ecosystems in southern Florida. Ecosystem and population-level modeling is being used to help in the planning and evaluation of this restoration. The specific objective of one of these modeling approaches, the Across Trophic Level System Simulation (ATLSS), is to predict the responses of a suite of higher trophic level species to several proposed alterations in Everglades hydrology. These include several species of wading birds, the snail kite, Cape Sable seaside sparrow, Florida panther, white-tailed deer, American alligator, and American crocodile. ATLSS is an ecosystem landscape-modeling approach and uses Geographic Information System (GIS) vegetation data and existing hydrology models for South Florida to provide the basic landscape for these species. A method of pseudotopography provides estimates of water depths through time at 28  28-m resolution across the landscape of southern Florida. Hydrologic model output drives models of habitat and prey availability for the higher trophic level species. Spatially explicit, individual-based computer models simulate these species. ATLSS simulations can compare the landscape dynamic spatial pattern of the species resulting from different proposed water management strategies. Here we compare the predicted effects of one possible change in water management in South Florida with the base case of no change. Preliminary model results predict substantial differences between these alternatives in some biotic spatial patterns. 
3658783|The frequency and extent of water limitation to aboveground net primary production (ANPP) in a mesic grassland in NE Kansas (Konza Prairie, USA) was assessed with an 8-year irrigation experiment. Since 1991, transects spanning upland and lowland sites in annually burned, ungrazed tallgrass prairie were provided with supplemental water to satisfy evapotranspirational demands. This protocol minimized water limitations during the growing season, as well as interannual variability in water stress. Irrigation of this mesic grassland increased ANPP in 6 of 8 years by an average of 26% when compared to control transects. Although interannual variation in ANPP was greater in uplands than lowlands at nominal levels of precipitation, reducing interannual variability in water availability via irrigation eliminated topographic differences; the irrigation protocol also reduced interannual variability in ANPP by as much as 40%. The addition of supplemental water enabled us to extend the relationship between annual precipitation and ANPP in grasslands to precipitation levels (average, 1153 mm; maximum, 1346 mm) similar to those experienced by more mesic grasslands that today exist only as remnants several hundred kilometers east of Kansas. This relationship was linear
3658943| Tropical dry forest is the most widely distributed land-cover type in the tropics. As the rate of land-use/land-cover change from forest to pasture or agriculture accelerates worldwide, it is becoming increasingly important to quantify the ecosystem biomass and carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) pools of both intact forests and converted sites. In the central coastal region of Mxico, we sampled total aboveground biomass (TAGB), and the N and C pools of two floodplain forests, three upland dry forests, and four pastures converted from dry forest. We also sampled belowground biomass and soil C and N pools in two sites of each land-cover type. The TAGB of floodplain forests was as high as
23501304|Predicting the ecological consequences of declining biodiversity is an urgent challenge, particularly in freshwater habitats where species declines and losses are among the highest. Small-scale experiments suggest potential ecosystem responses to losses of species, but definitive conclusions require verification at larger scales. We measured ecosystem metabolism and used whole-ecosystem stable isotope tracer additions to quantify nitrogen cycling in a tropical headwater stream before and after the sudden loss of amphibians to the fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis. Tadpoles are normally dominant grazers in such streams, where greater than 18 species may co-occur and densities often exceed 50 individuals m -2 . Loss of 98% of tadpole biomass corresponded with greater than 2 increases in algae and fine detritus biomass in the stream and a greater than 50% reduction in nitrogen uptake rate. Nitrogen turnover rates in suspended and deposited organic sediments were also significantly lower after the decline. As a consequence, the stream cycled nitrogen less rapidly, and downstream exports of particulate N were reduced. Whole stream respiration was significantly lower following the decline, indicating less biological activity in the stream sediments. Contrary to our predictions, biomass of grazing invertebrates, or any invertebrate functional groups, did not increase over 2 years following loss of tadpoles. Thus, reductions in ecosystem processes linked to the amphibian decline were not compensated for by other, functionally redundant consumers. Declining animal biodiversity has ecosystem-level consequences that may not be offset by ecological redundancy, even in biologically diverse regions such as the Neotropics.
25470318|Nitrogen (N) fixed by termites was evaluated as a N input to decomposition processes in two tropical forests, a dry deciduous forest (DDF) and the neighboring dry evergreen forest (DEF), Thailand. A diverse group of termite species were assayed by acetylene reduction method and only the wood/litter-feeding termites were found to fix N. More intensive samplings of two abundant species, Microcerotermes crassus and Globitermes sulphureus, were done across several seasons, suggesting N fixation rates of 0.21 and 0.28 kg ha y by termites in the DDF and DEF, respectively. Also, estimates of asymbiotic N fixation rates were 0.75 and 3.95 kg ha y. N fixed by termites and by asymbiotic fixers is directly supplied to decomposers breaking down dead plant material and could be a major source of their N. N fixed by termites was 7-22% of that fixed by termites and asymbiotic fixers. Although N fixed by termites is a small input compared to other inputs, this N is likely important for decomposition processes.
3658631| Understanding of general ecosystem principles may be improved by comparing disparate ecosystems. We compared nutrient cycling in lakes and streams to evaluate whether contrasts in hydrologic properties lead to different controls and different rates of internal nutrient cycling. Our primary focus was nutrient cycling that results in increased productivity, so we quantified nutrient cycling by defining the recycling ratio () as the number of times a nutrient molecule is sequestered by producers before export. An analytic model of nutrient cycling predicted that in lakes  is governed by the processes that promote the mineralization and retard the sedimentation of particulate-bound nutrients, whereas in streams,  is governed by processes that promote the uptake and retard the export of dissolved nutrients. These differences were the consequence of contrast between lakes and streams in the mass-specific export rates (mass exported  standing
41505949|The enormity and complexity of problems like environmental degradation and biodiversity loss have led to the development of indicator species and other surrogate approaches to track changes in environments and/or in biodiversity. Under these approaches particular species or groups of species are used as proxies for other biota, particular environmental conditions, or for environmental change. The indicator species approach contrasts with a direct measurement approach in which the focus is on a single entity or a highly targeted subset of entities in a given ecosystem but no surrogacy relationships with unmeasured entities are assumed. Here, we present a broad philosophical discussion of the indicator species and direct measurement approaches because their relative advantages and disadvantages are not well understood by many researchers, resource managers and policy makers. A goal of the direct measurement approach is to demonstrate a causal relationship between key attributes of the target ecosystem system (for example, particular environmental conditions) and the entities selected for measurement. The key steps in the approach are based on the fundamental scientific principles of hypothesis testing and associated direct measurement that drive research activities, management activities and monitoring programs. The direct measurement approach is based on four critical assumptions:(1) the 'right' entities to measure have been selected, (2) these entities are well known, (3) there is sufficient understanding about key ecological processes and (4) the entities selected can be accurately measured. The direct measurement approach is reductionist and many elements of the biota, many biotic processes and environmental factors must be ignored because of practical considerations. The steps in applying the indicator species approach are broadly similar to the direct measurement approach, except surrogacy relationships also must be quantified between a supposed indicator species or indicator group and the factors for which it is purported to be a proxy. Such quantification needs to occur via: (1) determining the taxonomic, spatial and temporal bounds for which a surrogacy relationship does and does not hold. That is, the extent of transferability of a given surrogate such as an indicator species to other biotic groups, to landscapes, ecosystems, environmental circumstances or over time in the same location can be determined; and (2) determining the ecological mechanisms underpinning a surrogacy relationship (for example, through fundamental studies of community structure). Very few studies have rigorously addressed these two tasks, despite the extremely widespread use of the indicator species approach and similar kinds of surrogate schemes in virtually all fields of environmental, resource and conservation management. We argue that this has the potential to create significant problems; thus, the use of an indicator species approach needs to be better justified. Attempts to quantify surrogacy relationships may reveal that, in some circumstances, the alternative of direct measurement of particular entities of environmental or conservation interest will be the best option.
41505955|Wetlands support physical and ecological functions that result in valuable services to society, including removal of reactive nitrogen (Nr) from surface water and groundwater. We compiled published data from wetland studies worldwide to estimate total Nr removal and to evaluate factors that influence removal rates. Over several orders of magnitude in wetland area and Nr loading rates, there is a positive, near-linear relationship between Nr removal and Nr loading. The linear model (null hypothesis) explains the data better than either a model of declining Nr removal efficiency with increasing Nr loading, or a MichaelisMenten (saturation) model. We estimate that total Nr removal by major classes of wetlands in the contiguous U.S. is approximately 20-21% of the total anthropogenic load of Nr to the region. Worldwide, Nr removal by wetlands is roughly 17% of anthropogenic Nr inputs. Historical loss of 50% of native wetland area suggests an equivalent loss of Nr removal capacity. Expanded protection and large-scale restoration of wetlands should be considered in strategies to re-balance the global nitrogen cycle and mitigate the negative consequences of excess Nr loading.
25053868|Here we demonstrate, through experimental iron additions to a Mediterranean seagrass meadow, that iron plays a pivotal role in seagrass systems on carbonate sediments, directly through its role as a limiting nutrient, and indirectly by stimulating phosphorus recycling through the activity of the enzyme alkaline phosphatase and by buffering the development of reduced conditions in sediments. Iron additions were performed throughout the active root zone (30 cm depth) to two Posidonia oceanica meadows, one on organic-enriched sediments and one on organic poor sediments (Reference). Seagrass growth, nutrient incorporation and sediment biogeochemical conditions were followed for four months. Iron additions had positive effects on seagrass growth (leaf production increased with 55%) and nutrient incorporation (increased 46-91%) in the organic-enriched site, increasing to levels found at the Reference site. There was no effect of iron additions in the Reference seagrass meadow suggesting that iron was not the most important controlling factor at this site. The iron pools were about two times higher compared to the organic-enriched site. The main effect on the sediment biogeochemical conditions at the organic-enriched site was a suppression of sulfate reduction activity to the levels encountered at the Reference site (6.7 mmol
41505866|The fate of soil organic carbon (SOC) is determined, in part, by complex interactions between the quality of plant litter inputs, nutrient availability, and the microbial communities that control decomposition rates. This study explores these interactions in a mesic grassland where C and nitrogen (N) availability and plant litter quality have been manipulated using both fertilization and haying for 7 years. We measured a suite of soil parameters including inorganic N, extractable organic C and N (EOC and EON), soil moisture, extracellular enzyme activity (EEA), and the isotopic composition of C and N in the microbial biomass and substrate sources. We use these data to determine how the activity of microbial decomposers was influenced by varying levels of substrate C and N quality and quantity and to explore potential mechanisms explaining the fate of enhanced plant biomass inputs with fertilization. Oxidative EEA targeting relatively recalcitrant C pools was not affected by fertilization. EEA linked to the breakdown of relatively labile C rich substrates exhibited no relationship with inorganic N availability but was significantly greater with fertilization and associated increases in substrate quality. These increases in EEA were not related to an increase in microbial biomass C. The ratio of hydrolytic C:N acquisition enzymes and C and  N values of microbial biomass relative to bulk soil C and N, or EOC and EON suggest that microbial communities in fertilized plots were relatively C limited, a feature likely driving enhanced microbial efforts to acquire C from labile sources. These data suggest that in mesic grasslands, enhancements in biomass inputs and quality with fertilization can prompt an increase in EEA within the mineral soil profile with no significant increases in microbial biomass. Our work helps elucidate the microbially mediated fate of enhanced biomass inputs that are greater in magnitude than the associated increases in mineral soil organic matter.
41505927|The New Jersey Pine Barrens (NJPB) is the largest forested area along the northeastern coast of the United States. The NJPB are dominated by pine (Pinus spp.) and oak (Quercus spp.) stands that are fragmented and subject to frequent disturbance and forest management. Over long time periods (> 50 years), the balance between oak and pine dominance is determined by fire frequency. As a consequence, the ability of the NJPB to sequester carbon may be contingent upon management activities as well as patterns of historic land use. We simulated 100 years of carbon change using three scenarios: (1) contemporary management as reflected in the recent (1991-2006) fire records, (2) an increase in the fire ignitions within the wildland urban interface areas of the NJPB reflecting increased prescribed fires, and (3) a longer response time to wildfires, reflecting a more liberal burning policy by the New Jersey Forest Fire Service. We used the LANDIS-II model coupled with CENTURY and the Dynamic Fire and Dynamic Biomass Fuels extensions to estimate forest carbon sequestration based on these three scenarios. Calibration and validation via comparison to monthly flux tower data indicated that the model reasonably captured the timing and magnitude of net ecosystem exchange in the absence of Gypsy moth defoliation (r = 0.89). Under all scenarios, our simulations suggest that forests of the NJPB will continue to accumulate carbon over the next 100 years under current climatic conditions. Although aboveground net primary productivity, live carbon, and detrital carbon were roughly constant or increased only modestly, soil organic carbon continued to increase through time for all forest types except the highly xeric pine plains. Our simulated changes in management reflected only minor alterations to the fire regime and thus management may have only minor effects on total forest carbon budgets in the immediate future particularly when compared to recovery from historic disturbance patterns.
3658977|Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) accumulate substantial nutrients in their bodies as they grow to adulthood at sea. These nutrients are carried to predominantly oligotrophic lakes and streams, where they are released during and after spawning. Research over more than 3 decades has shown that the annual deposition of salmon-borne marine-derived nutrients (MD-nutrients) is important for the productivity of freshwater communities throughout the Pacific coastal region. However, the pathways and mechanisms for MD-nutrient transfer and accumulation in freshwater and riparian ecosystems remain virtually unexplored, consequently, there are many uncertainties in this area. This article addresses three related topics. First, we summarize recent advances in our understanding of the linkages among MD-nutrients, freshwater (including riparian) ecosystems, and community dynamics by addressing the importance of MD-nutrients to lakes and streams and by then reviewing large-scale and long-term processes in the atmosphere and ocean that govern variability in salmon populations. Second, we evaluate the validity of the discoveries and their implications for active ecosystem management, noting areas where extrapolation from these results still requires great caution. Finally, we outline five key research issues where additional discoveries could greatly augment our understanding of the processes shaping the structure and dynamics of salmon populations and the characteristics of their freshwater habitat and associated riparian zones. Collectively, the data suggest that the freshwater portion of the salmon production system is intimately linked to the ocean. Moreover, for the system to be sustainable, a holistic approach to management will be required. This holistic approach will need to treat climate cycles, salmon, riparian vegetation, predators, and MD-nutrient flowpaths and feedbacks as an integrated system.
23501489|To predict future changes in forest ecosystems, it is crucial to understand the complex processes involved in decline of tree species populations and to evaluate the implications for potential vegetation shifts. Here, we study patterns of decline (canopy defoliation and mortality of adults) of four Scots pine populations at the southern edge of its distribution and characterized by different combinations of climate dryness and intensity of past management. General linear and structural equation modeling were used to assess how biotic, abiotic, and management components interacted to explain the spatial variability of Scots pine decline across and within populations. Regeneration patterns of Scots pine and co-occurring oak species were analyzed to assess potential vegetation shifts. Decline trends were related to climatic dryness at the regional scale, but, ultimately, within-population forest structure, local site conditions, and past human legacies could be the main underlying drivers of Scots pine decline. Overall, Scots pine regeneration was negatively related to decline both within and between populations, whereas oak species responded to decline idiosyncratically across populations. Taken together, our results suggest that (1) patterns of decline are the result of processes acting at the plot level that modulate forest responses to local environmental stress and (2) decline of adult Scots pine trees seems not to be compensated by self-recruitment so that the future dynamics of these forest ecosystems are uncertain.
3658953|Increases in atmospheric greenhouse gases are driving significant changes in global climate. To project potential vegetation response to future climate change, this study uses response surfaces to describe the relationship between bioclimatic variables and the distribution of tree and shrub taxa in western North America. The response surfaces illustrate the probability of the occurrence of a taxon at particular points in climate space. Climate space was defined using three bioclimatic variables: mean temperature of the coldest month, growing degree days, and a moisture index. Species distributions were simulated under present climate using observed data (1951-80, 30-year mean) and under future climate (2090-99, 10-year mean) using scenarios generated by three general circulation models-HADCM2, CGCM1, and CSIRO. The scenarios assume a 1% per year compound increase in greenhouse gases and changes in sulfate
41505965|We investigated the variability of soil respiration and several potential regulatory factors and modeled their interrelationships from May to August over a 5-year period in oak forests subjected to alternative harvesting treatments as part of the Missouri Ozark Forest Ecosystem Project (MOFEP). Treatments included even-aged management (EAM), uneven-aged management (UAM), and no-harvest management (NHM) and were implemented 7-8 years prior to this study. Summer mean soil respiration did not differ among the treatments, possibly because of changes in treatment differences in the separate months and years that tended to cancel each other out when averaged. Summer mean soil respiration and soil moisture tended to be higher in wet years (2004, 2006, and 2008) and lower in dry years (2005 and 2007) in EAM and UAM than in NHM. Summer precipitation was assumed to be the primary driver of variability in summer mean soil respiration through its control on soil moisture and the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) in the harvested forests. Nonlinear models using soil temperature, soil moisture and day-of-the-year (DOY) were used to predict within-summer soil respiration for all the treatments. A sensitivity analysis of the model using 30 min interval data suggested that soil respiration was more sensitive to soil moisture in the EAM and UAM treatments than in NHM. We also found a change in the soil respiration-soil temperature relationship in the summer for all the treatments. Simulated data sets that removed the covariance structure between soil temperature and moisture suggested that the change in the respiration-temperature relationship resulted from the combined effect of moisture stress and low temperature sensitivity at high temperatures during July and August. Simulations also showed the effect of moisture stress to be more limiting to soil respiration in the harvested forests than in the control at high temperatures, even resulting in a negative relationship at high temperatures.
23253696|There are concerns that recent fires, following a century of land uses, are burning in dry western forests in an uncharacteristic manner with large patches of higher-severity fire affecting long-term ecosystem dynamics. For example, it is well documented that a mixed-severity fire regime predominated over montane forests of the Colorado Front Range. However, much about the historical fire regime is unknown including the size, frequency, and distribution of higher-severity fires. We addressed these questions utilizing data from the original land surveyors who recorded locations of burned timber along survey lines resulting in a coarse-scale transect of fire occurrence across 624,156 ha. We reconstructed higher-severity burn patches, size distribution, and fire rotation for the 1800s (A.D. 18091883) and compared to the characteristics of modern fires over a recent 26-year period (A.D. 19842009) taken from remotely sensed data. We found the historical geometric mean higher-severity patch was 170.9 ha and the maximum patch size was 8,331 ha; the higher-severity fire rotation was 248.7 years. In addition, we confirmed that higher-severity fires were historically less common at elevations below 2,200 m. Modern fires had a geometric mean patch size of 90.0 ha (patches > 20 ha) and a maximum size of 5,183 ha; the higher-severity fire rotation was 431 years. The distributions of higher-severity patches were only 63.5% similar, as the historical distribution had fewer small patches and more large patches. The mixed-severity fire regime, historically, included a significant portion of higher-severity fire and large burn patches; modern fires appear to be within the range of historical variability.
41505907|Nutrients and energy derived from marine autotrophs subsidize shore ecosystems, increasing productivity and affecting food web dynamics and structure. In this study we examined how the inland reach of such inflow effects depends on vectors carrying the marine inflow inland and on landscape structure. We used stable isotopes of carbon and nitrogen to examine the roles of arthropod vectors in carrying marine-derived nutrients inland in two very different shore ecosystems: shore meadows in Sweden with marine inflows of algae and emerging chironomid midges; and sandy beaches and shore dunes in south-western Australia with marine inflows of algae and seagrass. In a colonization experiment we found that deposited wrack on the beach is quickly colonized by both grazers and predators. However, in both systems we found a larger inland reach of the marine subsidy than could be accounted for by deposited macrophytes on shores alone, and that dipterans and spiders potentially functioned as vectors for the inflow. Our results indicate that marine inflows are important for near-shore terrestrial ecosystems well above the water's edge, and that this effect is largely due to arthropod vectors (mainly dipterans and spiders) in both low-productivity sandy beach ecosystems at the Indian Ocean coast of Australia, and more productive shore meadows on the Baltic Sea coast of Sweden. Our findings also suggest that the type of vector transporting marine material inland may be as important as the productivity contrast between ecosystems for explaining the degree of marine influence on the terrestrial system.
27823725|Integration of habitat heterogeneity into spatially realistic metapopulation approaches reveals the potential for key cross-scale interactions. Broadscale environmental gradients and land-use practices can create autocorrelation of habitat quality of suitable patches at intermediate spatial scales. Patch occupancy then depends not only on habitat quality at the patch scale but also on feedbacks from surrounding neighborhoods of autocorrelated patches. Metapopulation dynamics emerge from how demographic and dispersal processes interact with relevant habitat heterogeneity. We provide an empirical example from a metapopulation of round-tailed muskrats (Neofiber alleni) in which habitat quality of suitable patches was spatially autocorrelated most strongly within 1,000 m, which was within the expected dispersal range of the species. After controlling for factors typically considered in metapopulation studiespatch size, local patch quality, patch connectivitywe use a cross-variogram analysis to demonstrate that patch occupancy by muskrats was correlated with habitat quality across scales  1,171 m. We also discuss general consequences of spatial heterogeneity of habitat quality for metapopulations related to potential cross-scale interactions. We focus on spatially correlated extinctions and metapopulation persistence, hierarchical scaling of sourcesink dynamics, and dispersal decisions by individuals in relation to information constraints.
3658739| We used a novel, nonintrusive experimental system to examine plant responses to warming and drought across a climatic and geographical latitudinal gradient of shrubland ecosystems in four sites from northern to southern Europe (UK, Denmark, The Netherlands, and Spain). In the first two years of experimentation reported here, we measured plant cover and biomass by the pinpoint method, plant
25470384|Net primary production (NPP) is a fundamental characteristic of all ecosystems and foundational to understanding the fluxes of energy and nutrients. Because NPP cannot be measured directly, researchers use field-measured surrogates as input variables in various equations designed to estimate 'true NPP'. This debate led to considerable debate concerning which equations most accurately estimate 'true NPP'. This debate has influenced efforts to assess NPP in grasslands, with researchers often advocating more complex equations to avoid underestimation. However, this approach ignores the increase in statistical error associated with NPP estimates as a greater number of parameters and more complex mathematical functions are introduced into the equation. Using published grassland data and Monte Carlo simulation techniques, we assessed the relative variability in NPP estimates obtained using six different NPP estimation equations that varied in both the number of parameters and intricacy of mathematical operations. Our results indicated that more complex equations may result in greater uncertainty without reducing the probability of underestimation. The amount of uncertainty associated with estimates of NPP was influenced by the number of parameters as well as the variability in the data and the nature of the mathematical operations. For example, due to greater variability in the field-measured belowground data than aboveground data, estimates of belowground NPP tended to have more uncertainty than estimates of aboveground NPP. An analysis in which the input data were standardized allowed us to isolate the details of the calculations from the variability in the data in assessing the propagation of uncertainty. This analysis made clear that equations with product terms have the potential to magnify the uncertainty of the inputs in the estimates of NPP although this relationship was complicated by interactions with data variability and number of parameters. Our results suggest that more complex NPP estimation equations can increase uncertainty without necessarily reducing risk of underestimation. Because estimates can never be tested by comparison to "true NPP", we recommend that researchers include an assessment of propagation of statistical error when evaluating the 'best' estimation method.
3659058|A field experiment was performed in which the richness of perennial grasses (S) was varied in model ecosystems exposed to a simulated heat wave (free air temperature increase and drought). The proportion of individuals that survived the heat wave decreased with S, which could be ascribed to higher water consumption in the species-rich systems. Higher transpiration at high diversity was also observed in other studies using functional groups and could have originated from increased leaf area, less intense stomatal closure, or a combination of both. The increased tiller number per plant that we observed, while leaf area per tiller remained constant, suggests that an enhanced leaf area index was most likely responsible. However, competitive interactions also seemed to play a role in the influence of S on survival. Regrowth of the surviving individuals, expressed as leaf area per living plant after a recovery period following the heat wave, increased with S, most likely due to the dominance of productive species, which was facilitated by the additional space yielded by more intense gap formation at higher S (due to higher plant mortality). Species richness affected both the size and density of the gaps. Mean size increased exponentially with S, while density increased at low S but decreased at higher S when connectance of the gaps occurred. Size distribution of the gaps was not affected.
25470313|An ecological threshold is the point at which there is an abrupt change in an ecosystem quality, property or phenomenon, or where small changes in an environmental driver produce large responses in the ecosystem. Analysis of thresholds is complicated by nonlinear dynamics and by multiple factor controls that operate at diverse spatial and temporal scales. These complexities have challenged the use and utility of threshold concepts in environmental management despite great concern about preventing dramatic state changes in valued ecosystems, the need for determining critical pollutant loads and the ubiquity of other threshold-based environmental problems. In this paper we define the scope of the thresholds concept in ecological science and discuss methods for identifying and investigating thresholds using a variety of examples from terrestrial and aquatic environments, at ecosystem, landscape and regional scales. We end with a discussion of key research needs in this area.
3658677|Social insect societies are complex adaptive systems that self-organize within a set of constraints. Although it is important to acknowledge that global order in social insects can arise as a result of internal interactions among insects, it is equally important to include external factors and constraints in the picture, especially as the colony and its environment may influence each other through interactions among internal and external factors. The scope of this remark goes beyond social insects and applies to a wide range of biological systems, including ecosystems.
40928244|The Everglades freshwater marl prairie is a dynamic and spatially heterogeneous landscape, containing thousands of tree islands nested within a marsh matrix. Spatial processes underlie population and community dynamics across the mosaic, especially the balance between woody and graminoid components, and landscape patterns reflect interactions among multiple biotic and abiotic drivers. To better understand these complex, multi-scaled relationships we employed a three-tiered hierarchical design to investigate the effects of seed source, hydrology, and more indirectly fire on the establishment of new woody recruits in the marsh, and to assess current tree island patterning across the landscape. Our analyses were conducted at the ground level at two scales, which we term the micro- and meso-scapes, and results were related to remotely detected tree island distributions assessed in the broader landscape, that is, the macro-scape. Seed source and hydrologie effects on recruitment in the micro- and meso-scapes were analyzed via logistic regression, and spatial aggregation in the macro-scape was evaluated using a grid-based univariate O-ring function. Results varied among regions and scales but several general trends were observed. The patterning of adult populations was the strongest driver of recruitment in the microand meso-scape prairies, with recruits frequently aggregating around adults or tree islands. However in the macro-scape biologically associated (second order) aggregation was rare, suggesting that emergent woody patches are heavily controlled by underlying physical and environmental factors such as topography, hydrology, and fire.
25470422|Human activities are altering biodiversity and the nitrogen (N) cycle, affecting terrestrial carbon (C) cycling globally. Only a few specialized bacteria carry out nitrification-the transformation of ammonium (NH) to nitrate (NO), in terrestrial ecosystems, which determines the form and mobility of inorganic N in soils. However, the control of nitrification on C cycling in natural ecosystems is poorly understood. In an ecosystem experiment in the Patagonian steppe, we inhibited autotrophic nitrification and measured its effects on C and N cycling. Decreased net nitrification increased total mineral N and NH and reduced NO in the soil. Plant cover (P < 0.05) and decomposition (P < 0.0001) decreased with inhibition of nitrification, in spite of increases in NH availability. There were significant changes in the natural abundance of N in the dominant vegetation when nitrification was inhibited suggesting that a switch occurred in the form of N (from NO to NH) taken up by plants. Results from a controlled-condition experiment supported the field results by showing that the dominant plant species of the Patagonian steppe have a marked preference for nitrate. Our results indicate that nitrifying bacteria exert a major control on ecosystem functioning, and that the inhibition of nitrification results in significant alteration of the C cycle. The interactions between the C and N cycles suggest that rates of C cycling are affected not just by the amount of available N, but also by the relative availability for plant uptake of NH and NO.
25622897|Elaeagnus angustifolia L., a nonnative N-fixer, has established within riparian corridors of the interior western United States and is now the fourth most frequently occuring woody riparian plant in this region. We examined whether E. angustifolia alters pools and fluxes of soil inorganic N at eight sites dominated by Populus deltoides ssp. wislizeni along the Rio Grande in New Mexico over 2 years. E. angustifolia contributed a small fraction of total leaf fall (<5% across sites) but accounted for a disproportionately high amount of N (19%) that entered the system from P. deltoides and E. angustifolia leaf fall, due to the high N content (>2%) of E. angustifolia senesced leaves. Soil inorganic N concentrations and potential rates of nitrification and net N mineralization varied across sites. E. angustifolia leaf fall explained 59% of the variation in soil inorganic N concentrations across years. This relationship suggests that inputs of N-righ leaf litter from E. angustifolia may increase N availability in riparian soils. We detected no relationship between E. angustifolia leaf fall and fluxes of soil inorganic N, whereas others have measured both stimulation and inhibition of soil N cycling by E. angustifolia. Greater abundance of N-fixing species in riparian forests may augment growth of neighboring plants or increase N export to rivers. Given these possibilities, ecosystem studies and restoration projects should further examine the potential for E. angustifolia to affect N pools and fluxes along western North American rivers.
40603506|Public forests are surrounded by land over which agency managers have no control, and whose owners expect the public forest to be a "good neighbor." Fire risk abatement on multi-owner landscapes containing flammable but fire-dependent ecosystems epitomizes the complexities of managing public lands. We report a case study that applies a landscape disturbance and succession model (LANDIS) to evaluate the relative effective - ness of four alternative fire mitigation strategies on the Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest (Wisconsin, USA), where fire-dependent pine and oak systems overlap with a rapidly developing wildland-urban interface (WUI). We incorporated timber management of the current forest plan and fire characteristics (ignition patterns, fire sizes, and fuel-specific fire spread rates) typical for the region under current fire suppression policies, using a combination of previously published fire analyses and interactive expert opinion from the national forest. Of the fire mitigation strategies evaluated, reduction of ignitions caused by debris-burning had the strongest influence on fire risk, followed by the strategic redistribution of risky forest types away from the high ignition rates of the WUI. Other treatments (fire breaks and reducing roadside ignitions) were less effective. Escaped fires, although rare, introduced significant uncertainty in the simulations and are expected to complicate fire management planning. Simulations also show that long-term maintenance of fire-dependent communities (that is, pine and oak) representing the greatest forest fire risk requires active management. Resolving conflict between the survival of fire-dependent communities that are regionally declining and continued rural development requires strategic planning that accounts for multiowner activities.
23501491|Nitrogen (N) fixing trees including many species of Acacia are an important though variable component of savanna ecosystems. It is known that these trees enrich the soil with carbon (C) and N, but their effect on the combined C:N:P stoichiometry in soil is less well understood. Theory suggests that they might reduce available phosphorus (P), creating a shift from more N-limited conditions in grass-dominated to more P-limited conditions in tree-dominated sites, which in turn could feed back negatively on the trees' capacity to fix N. We studied the effects of Acacia zanzibarica tree density upon soil and foliar N:P stoichiometry, and the N 2 -fixation rates of trees and leguminous herbs in a humid Tanzanian savanna. Foliar N:P ratios and N 2 -fixation rates of trees remained constant across the density gradient, whereas soil C, N and organic P pools increased. In contrast, the N:P ratio of grasses increased and N 2 -fixation rates of leguminous herbs decreased with increasing tree density, indicating a shift towards more P-limited conditions for the understory vegetation. These contrasting responses suggest that trees and grasses have access to different sources of N and P, with trees being able to access P from deeper soil layers and perhaps also utilizing organic forms more efficiently.
25470424|Understanding the long-term ecological dynamics of northern peatlands is essential for assessment of the possible responses and feedbacks of these carbon-rich ecosystems to climate change and natural disturbance. I used high-resolution macrofossil and lithological analyses of a fen peatland in western Canada to infer the Holocene developmental history of the peatland, to document the temporal pattern of long-term peat accumulation, and to investigate ecosystems responses to climate changes in terms of species composition and carbon accumulation. The peatland has been dominated by sedges and brown mosses during its 10,000-year history, despite interruption by tephra deposition. Peat accumulation rates vary by more than an order of magnitude and decline from 5500 to 1300 cal BP, resulting in a convex depth-age curve, which contrasts with the carbon accumulation patterns documented for oceanic peatlands. The synthesis of regional data from continental western Canada indicates that fens tend to accumulate more carbon than bogs of the same ages. These data suggest that the carbon sink potential of northern peatlands has varied dramatically in the past, so estimates of the present and projected carbon sink strengths of these peatlands need to take this temporal variation into consideration. Widespread slowdown of peat accumulation over the last 4000 years may have resulted from climate cooling in northern latitudes after the Holocene insolation maximum. The findings indicate that long-term peatland dynamics are modified by many local and regional factors and that gradual environmental change may be capable of triggering abrupt shifts and jumps in ecosystem states.
3658920|Because of the water-limited nature and discontinuous plant cover of shortgrass steppe, spatial patterns in ecosystem properties are influenced more by the presence or absence of plants than by plant type. However, plant type may influence temporal patterns of nutrient cycling between plant and soil. Plants having the carbon-3 ( C
25470344|Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) of grasslands varies spatially and temporally. Spectral information provided by remote sensors is a promising new tool that may be able to estimate ANPP in real time and at low cost. The objectives of this study were (a) to evaluate at a seasonal scale the relationship between ANPP and the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), (b) to estimate seasonal variations in the coefficient of conversion of absorbed radiation into aboveground biomass (), and (c) to identify the environmental controls on such temporal changes. We used biomass-based field determinations of ANPP for two grassland sites in the Flooding Pampa, Argentina, and related them with NDVI data derived from the NOAA Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellites using three different models. Results were compared with data obtained from the new Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor at an additional site. The first model was based solely on NDVI; the second was based on the amount of photosynthetically active radiation absorbed by the green vegetation
40603438|Nineteen small lakes located in open landscapes or deciduous forests in nutrient-rich calcareous moraines in North Zealand, Denmark, were all net heterotrophic having negative net ecosystem production and predominant CO supersaturation and O undersaturation of lake waters. Forest lakes were poorer in nutrients, phytoplankton, and primary production, but richer in dissolved organic matter and CO than open lakes with more light available. The modeled annual balance between gross primary production and community respiration (GPP/R COM ) averaged 0.60 in forest lakes and 0.76 in open lakes and the ratio increased significantly with phosphorus concentration and phytoplankton biomass but decreased with colored dissolved organic matter. The negative daily rates of ecosystem production resembled estimates of oxygen uptake from the atmosphere to the lakes, whereas estimates of CO emission were 7.2-fold higher. Although COrich groundwater and anaerobic respiration support greater molar release of CO than uptake of O, we suggest CO emission is overestimated. Possible explanations include CO enrichment of the air film above small wind-sheltered lakes. The observed metabolism and gas exchange show that exogenous organic matter is an important supplementary energy source to community respiration in these small lakes and that forest lakes, in addition, experience pronounced light attenuation from trees and dissolved colored organic matter constraining primary production.
3658844|As the human demand for freshwater natural resources such as fish and drinking water increases, we may rely more heavily on models to predict the response of aquatic ecosystems to natural and anthropogenic disturbance. Theses models in turn implicitly depend on the underlying spatial distribution of organisms. In terrestrial ecosystems, increased natural resource utilization has transformed habitat and changed the spatial distribution of organisms, with subsequent negative effects on biota. Recent studies in lakes demonstrate that human development of lakeshores alters the physical habitat and nutrient cycles. The impact of such disturbance by humans on the spatial distribution of aquatic organisms, however, remains unknown. Here we quantify the effect of lakeshore development on the spatial distribution of fishes in 23 lakes in the US Pacific Northwest. We found a significant decrease in the spatial aggregation of fishes with increased shoreline development by humans, reflecting a loss of refugia and resource heterogeneity that favors aggregation among fishes. We also found that lakes with a high perimeter-surface-area ratio and a relatively shallow littoral zone had much higher levels of fish aggregation, suggesting the importance of terrestrial inputs to lakes. Finally, we found a marginally significant decrease in fish spatial aggregation with increased total phosphorus concentration, but no effect of chlorophyll concentration, water transparency, the predator-prey ratio, or number of species on fish spatial distributions. These results suggest that anthropogenic modification of shorelines is significantly altering the spatial distribution of important aquatic organisms, and that these changes may have important implications for predictive modeling of ecosystem dynamics.
40603435|In the present study we analyzed the combined effects of management (grazing, mowing, prescribed burning, sod-cutting) and atmospheric deposition on N and P budgets of heathland ecosystems (Lneburger Heide nature reserve; N Germany). We hypothesize that management measures such as grazing and mowing can accelerate a deposition-induced imbalance of N and P pools as a result of a disproportionally high output of P. We analyzed management and deposition affected input-output flows of N and P and related them to changes in the nutritional status of Calluna vulgaris 5 years after treatment application. We found that grazing and mowing caused the highest net loss of P due to high P concentrations in the aboveground biomass. In contrast, prescribed burning only slightly affected P pools, as P remained in the system due to ash deposition. Management mediated effects on N and P pools were mirrored in the nutritional status of Calluna vulgaris: at the grazed and mown sites, the P content of current season's shoots significantly decreased within 5 years after treatments, whereas the N content remained unchanged. We conclude that grazing and mowing can accelerate declining availability of P and, thus, accelerate a depositioninduced shift from N- to P-limited plant growth in the medium term. In the face of ongoing atmospheric N loads management schemes need to combine high-and low-intensity measures to maintain both a diverse structure and balanced nutrient budgets in the long term.
41505922|River-floodplain systems are amongst the most productivebut often severely impactedaquatic systems worldwide. We explored the ecological response of fish to flow regime in a large riverfloodplain system by studying the relationships between (1) discharge and inundated floodplain area, with a focus on spatial and temporal patterns in floodplain lake connectivity, and (2) flood volume and fisheries catch. Our results demonstrate a non-linear relationship between discharge and floodplain inundation with considerable hysteresis due to differences in inundation and drainage rate. Inundation extent was mostly determined by flood volume, not peak discharge. We found that the more isolated lakes (that is, lakes with a shorter connection duration to the river) are located at higher local elevation and at larger hydrological distance from the main rivers: geographical distance to the river appears a poor predictor of lake isolation. Although year-to-year fish catches in the floodplain were significantly larger with larger flood volumes in the floodplain, they were not in the main river, suggesting that mechanisms that increase catch, such as increased floodplain access or increased somatic growth, are stimulated by flooding in the floodplain, but not in the river. Fish species that profit from flooding belong to different feeding guilds, suggesting that all trophic levels may benefit from flooding. We found indications that the ecological functioning of floodplains is not limited to its temporary availability as habitat. Refugia can be present within the floodplain itself, which should be considered in the management of large rivers and their floodplain.
3658901|Trees allocate a large portion of gross primary production belowground for the production and maintenance of roots and mycorrhizae. The difficulty of directly measuring total belowground carbon allocation (TBCA) has limited our understanding of belowground carbon (C) cycling and the factors that control this important flux. We measured TBCA over 4 years using a conservation of mass, C balance approach in replicate stands of fast growing Eucalyptus saligna Smith with different nutrition management and tree density treatments. We measured TBCA as surface carbon dioxide ( CO
3658751|We review and compare well-studied examples of five large, infrequent disturbances (LIDs)-fire, hurricanes, tornadoes, volcanic eruptions, and floods-in terms of the physical processes involved, the damage patterns they create in forested landscapes, and the potential impacts of those patterns on subsequent forest development. Our examples include the 1988 Yellowstone fires, the 1938 New England hurricane, the 1985 Tionesta tornado, the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, and the 1993 Mississippi floods. The resulting landscape patterns are strongly controlled by interactions between the specific disturbance, the abiotic environment (especially topography), and the composition and structure of the vegetation at the time of the disturbance. The very different natures of these interactions yield distinctive temporal and spatial patterns and demand that ecologists increase their knowledge of the physical characteristics of disturbance processes. Floods and fires can occur over a long period, whereas volcanic eruptions and wind-driven events often last for no more than a few hours or days. Tornadoes and floods produce linear patterns with sharp edges, but fires, volcanic eruptions, and hurricanes can affect broader areas, often with gradual transitions of disturbance intensity. In all cases, the evidence suggests that LIDs produce enduring legacies of physical and biological structure that influence ecosystem processes for decades or centuries.
41505909|Fire influences carbon dynamics from local to global scales, but many uncertainties remain regarding the remote detection and simulation of heterogeneous fire effects. This study integrates Landsat-based remote sensing and Biome-BGC process modeling to simulate the effects of high-, moderate-, and lowseverity fire on pyrogenic emissions, tree mortality, and net ecosystem production. The simulation area (244,600 ha) encompasses four fires that burned approximately 50,000 ha in 2002-2003 across the Metolius Watershed, Oregon, USA, as well as in situ measurements of postfire carbon pools and fluxes that we use for model evaluation. Simulated total pyrogenic emissions were 0.732 Tg C (2.4% of equivalent statewide anthropogenic carbon emissions over the same 2-year period). The simulated total carbon transfer due to tree mortality was fourfold higher than pyrogenic carbon emissions, but dead wood decomposition will occur over decades. Immediately postfire, burned areas were a simulated carbon source (net C exchange: -0.076 Tg C y; mean  SD: -142  121 g C m y). As expected, high-severity, stand-replacement fire had disproportionate carbon impacts. The per-unit area effects of moderate-severity fire were substantial, however, and the extent of low-severity fire merits its inclusion in landscape-scale analyses. These results demonstrate the potential to reduce uncertainties in landscape to regional carbon budgets by leveraging Landsat-based fire products that account for both stand-replacement and partial disturbance.
25622885|Humid tropical forests are often characterized by large nitrogen (N) pools, and are known to have large potential N losses. Although rarely measured, tropical forests likely maintain considerable biological N fixation (BNF) to balance N losses. We estimated inputs of N via BNF by free-living microbes for two tropical forests in Puerto Rico, and assessed the response to increased N availability using an on-going N fertilization experiment. Nitrogenase activity was measured across forest strata, including the soil, forest floor, mosses, canopy epiphylls, and lichens using acetylene (CH) reduction assays. BNF varied significantly among ecosystem compartments in both forests. Mosses had the highest rates of nitrogenase activity per gram of sample, with 11  6 nmol CH reduced/g dry weight/h (mean  SE) in a lower elevation forest, and 6  1 nmol CH/g/h in an upper elevation forest. We calculated potential N fluxes via BNF to each forest compartment using surveys of standing stocks. Soils and mosses provided the largest potential inputs of N via BNF to these ecosystems. Summing all components, total back-ground BNF inputs were 120  29 g N/m/h in the lower elevation forest, and 95  15 g N/m/h in the upper elevation forest, with added N significantly suppressing BNF in soils and forest floor. Moisture content was significantly positively correlated with BNF rates for soils and the forest floor. We conclude that BNF is an active biological process across forest strata for these tropical forests, and is likely to be sensitive to increases in N deposition in tropical regions.
41413966|Temporally variable and reciprocal subsidies between ecosystems are ubiquitous. These spatial flows can generate a suite of direct and indirect effects in local and meta-ecosystems. The focus of most subsidy research, however, has been on the response of consumers in recipient ecosystems to constant subsidies over very short or very long time scales. We derive a meta-ecosystem model to explicitly consider the dynamic feedbacks between local ecosystems coupled through reciprocal pulsed subsidies. We predict oscillating reinforcing and dampening effects of reciprocal pulsed herbivore flows. Maximum reinforcing effects between reciprocal pulsed herbivore flows occur when these flows are in phase with the dynamics of neighboring predators. This prediction is robust to a range of pulse quantities and frequencies. Reciprocal pulsed herbivore subsidies lead to spatial and temporal variability in the strength of trophic cascades in local and meta-ecosystems but these cascading effects are the strongest when reciprocal pulsed subsidies are temporally concentrated. When predators demonstrate a behavioral response to prey abundance, reciprocal pulsed subsidies dampen the strength of local trophic cascades but lead to strong trophic cascades across local ecosystems. The timing of reciprocal pulsed subsidies is a critical component that determines the cascading effects of spatial flows. We show that spatial and temporal variabilities in resources and consumers can have a significant influence on the strength of cascading trophic interactions; therefore, our ability to detect and understand trophic cascades may depend on the scale of inquiry of ecological studies.
27823679|A key issue in ecosystem management in the western U.S. is the determination of the historic range of variability of fire and its ecological significance prior to major land-use changes associated with Euro-American settlement. The present study relates spatial variation in historical fire occurrence to variation in abiotic and biotic predictors of fire frequency and severity across the elevational range of ponderosa pine in northern Colorado. Logistic regression was used to relate fire frequency to environmental predictors and to derive a probability surface for mapping purposes. These results indicate that less than 20% of the ponderosa pine zone had an historic fire regime (pre-1915) of relatively frequent fires (mean fire intervals, MFI, <30 years). More than 80% is reconstructed to have had a lower frequency (MFI  30 years), more variable severity fire regime. High fire frequency is clearly associated with low elevations. Lower and more variable fire frequencies, associated with high and moderate severities, occur across a broad range of elevation and are related to variations in other environmental variables. Only a small part of the ponderosa pine zone fits the widespread view that the historic fire regime was characterized mainly by frequent, low-severity that maintained open conditions. Management attempts to restore historic forest structures and/or fire conditions must recognize that infrequent severe fires were an important component of the historic fire regime in this cover type in northern Colorado.
40296365|Nitrogen variations at different spatial scales and integrated across functional groups were addressed for lowland tropical forests in the Brazilian Amazon as follows: (1) how does N availability vary across the region over different spatial scales (regional  landscape scale); (2) how are these variations in N availability integrated across plant functional groups (legume  non-legume trees). Leaf N, P, and Ca concentrations as well the leaf N isotope ratios (N) from a large set of legume and nonlegume tree species were measured. Legumes had higher foliar N/Ca ratios than non-legumes, consistent with the high energetic costs in plant growth associated with higher foliar P/Ca ratios found in legumes than in non-legumes. At the regional level, foliar N decreased with increasing rainfall. At the landscape level, N availability was higher in the forests on clayey soils on the plateau than in forests on sandier soils. The isotope as well as the non-isotope data relationships here documented, explain to a large extent the variation in N signatures across gradients of rainfall and soil. Although at the regional level, the precipitation regime is a major determinant of differences in N availability, at the landscape level, under the same precipitation regime, soil type seems to be a major factor influencing the availability of N in the Brazilian Amazon forest.
41505873|We used sugar maple litter double-labeled with C and N to quantify fluxes of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) between litter and soil in a northern hardwood forest and the retention of litter C and N in soil. Two cohorts of litter were compared, one in which the label was preferentially incorporated into non-structural tissue and the other structural tissue. Loss of C from this litter generally followed dry mass and total C loss whereas loss of N (20-30% in 1 year) was accompanied by large increases of total N content of this decaying litter (26-32%). Enrichment of C and N was detected in soil down to 10-15 cm depth. After 6 months of decay (November-May) 36-43% of the C released from the litter was recovered in the soil, with no differences between the structural and non-structural labeled litter. By October the percentage recovery of litter C in soil was much lower (16%). The C released from litter and remaining in soil organic matter (SOM) after 1 year represented over 30 g C m y of SOM accumulation. Recovery of litter N in soil was much higher than for C (over 90%) and in May N was mostly in organic horizons whereas by October it was mostly in 0-10 cm mineral soil. A small proportion of this N was recovered as inorganic N (2-6%). Recovery of N in microbial biomass was higher in May (13-15%) than in October (about 5%). The C:N ratio of the SOM and microbial biomass derived from the labeled litter was much higher for the structural than the non-structural litter and for the forest floor than mineral SOM, illustrating the interactive role of substrates and microbial activity in regulating the C:N stoichiometry of forest SOM formation. These results for a forest ecosystem long exposed to chronically high atmospheric N deposition (ca. 10 kg N ha y) suggest possible mechanisms of N retention in soil: increased organic N leaching from fresh litter and reduced fungal transport of N from soil to decaying litter may promote N stabilization in mineral SOM even at a relatively low C:N ratio.
3658791|We evaluated nitrogen (N) removal efficiency by riparian buffers at 14 sites scattered throughout seven European countries subject to a wide range of climatic conditions. The sites also had a wide range of nitrate inputs, soil characteristics, and vegetation types. Dissolved forms of N in groundwater and associated hydrological parameters were measured at all sites; these data were used to calculate nitrate removal by the riparian buffers. Nitrate removal rates (expressed as the difference between the input and output nitrate concentration in relation to the width of the riparian zone) were mainly positive, ranging from
25470316|We examined the patterns of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) gain, retention or loss in ten foliar tissues in a litterbag experiment over 6 years at 18 upland forest sites in Canada, ranging from subarctic to cool temperate. N was usually retained in the decomposing litter until about 50% of the original C remained. The peak N content in the litter was observed at between 72 and 99% of the original C remaining, with C:N mass quotients between 37 and 71 (mean 55). The rate of N release from the litters was not related to the original N concentration, which may be associated with the generally narrow range (0.59-1.28% N) in the litters. P was immediately lost from all litters, except beech leaves, with critical litter C:P mass quotients for P release being in the range 700-900. The rate of P loss was inversely correlated with the original litter P concentration, which ranged from 0.02 to 0.13%. The soil underlying the litterbags influenced the pattern of N and P dynamics in the litters; there were weak correlations between the N and P remaining at 60% C remaining in the litters and the C:N and C:P quotients of the surface layer of the soil. There was a trend for higher N and P retention in the litter at sites with lower soil C:N and N:P quotients, respectively. Although there was a large variation in C:N, C:P and N:P quotients in the original litters (29-83, 369-2122 and 5-26, respectively), and some variation in the retention or loss of N and P in the early stages of decomposition, litters converged on C:N, C:P and N:P quotients of 30, 450 and 16, when the C remaining fell below 30%. These quotients are similar to that found in the surface organic matter of these ecosystems.
40603657|This study investigated the effects of cormorant colonies on plant-arthropod island food webs, the consequences of nutrient-rich runoff on marine communities, and feedback loops from marine to terrestrial ecosystems. Terrestrial plant responses were as expected, with the highest plant biomass on islands with low nest density and the highest nitrogen (N) content on islands with high nest density. In contrast to our hypothesis, we found no uniform density response across guilds. Among herbivores, the variable responses may depend on the relative importance of plant quality or quantity. As expected, nutrient-rich runoff entered water bodies surrounding cormorant nesting islands, but only at high nest density, and increased the density of emerging insects. This created a potential feedback loop to spiders (major terrestrial predators), where stable isotope analyses suggested great use of chironomids. Contrary to our expectation, this potential feed-back did not result in the highest spider density on islands with a high cormorant nest density. Web spiders showed no changes in density on active cormorant islands, and lycosids were actually less abundant on active cormorant islands compared to reference islands. The variable response of spiders despite increased dipteran densities, and also in other consumer groups, may be due to direct negative effects of cormorants on soil chemistry, vegetation cover, and other density regulating forces (for example, top-down forces) not studied here. This study highlights the importance of including processes in the surrounding marine ecosystem to understand the impacts of seabirds on the food web structures of their nesting islands.
25470373|Nomadism has received surprisingly little attention in the ecological literature, and further work in this area is needed. The results of Woinarski's reanalysis of our research findings are broadly similar to our own, and they support our original interpretation. However, his presentation is confusing and difficult to interpret. We used an information-theoretic approach to multimodel selection. We a priori defined plausible candidate models relating the variables described in our original paper or Woinarski's reanalysis to the phenomenon of nomadism. We tested models that investigate nomadism as a function of nectivory, granivory, diet diversity, mixed diet, distance to body mass aggregation edge, mass, interactions between distance to edge and nectivory, distance to edge and mass, mass and nectivory, or mass and the interaction of edge and nectivory. There is consistency in our results across all sets of models, suggesting that mass, distance to body mass aggregation (scale breaks), and diet (nectivory) are all important factors in determining nomadism. In no case was nectivory or any other diet variable supported in a single-variable model. Given the same data and similar results, we and Woinarski reach fundamentally different conclusions. Woinarski views nomadism as an easily understandable results given knowledge of the proper single mechanistic variable, and he discounts interactions with structural features of the landscape and scaling. We conclude that nomadism is a fundamentally complex phenomenon without a single source of causation, and that it is the interaction of species, species attributes, and landscapes that is responsible for nomadic behavior.
25470427|We examined the historical record of mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins) activity within Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, for the 25-years period leading up to the 1988 Yellowstone fires (1963-86) to determine how prior beetle activity and the resulting tree mortality affected the spatial pattern of the 1988 Yellowstone fires. To obtain accurate estimates of our model parameters, we used a Markov chain Monte Carlo method to account for the high degree of spatial autocorrelation inherent to forest fires. Our final model included three statistically significant variables: drought, aspect, and sustained mountain pine beetle activity in the period 1972-75. Of the two major mountain pine beetle outbreaks that preceded the 1988 fires, the earlier outbreak (1972-75) was significantly correlated with the burn pattern, whereas the more recent one (1980-83) was not. Although regional drought and high winds were responsible for the large scale of this event, the analysis indicates that mountain pine beetle activity in the mid-1970s increased the odds of burning in 1988 by 11% over unaffected areas. Although relatively small in magnitude, this effect, combined with the effects of aspect and spatial variation in drought, had a dramatic impact on the spatial pattern of burned and unburned areas in 1988.
3658641|Empirical and modeling studies have shown that the magnitude and duration of the primary production response to elevated carbon dioxide ( CO
3658649| Exotic grasses and grass-fueled fires have altered plant species composition in the seasonal submontane woodlands of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. These changes have altered both structural and functional aspects of the plant community, which could, in turn, have consequences for litter decomposition and nitrogen (N) dynamics. In grass-invaded unburned woodland, grass removal plots within the woodland, and woodland converted to grassland by fire, we compared whole-system fluxes and the contributions of individual species to annual aboveground fine litterfall and litterfall N, and litter mass and net N loss. We assessed the direct contribution of grass biomass to decomposition and N dynamics, and we determined how grasses affected decomposition processes indirectly via effects on native species and alteration of the litter layer microenvironment. Grasses contributed 35% of the total annual aboveground fine litterfall in the invaded woodland. However, total litterfall mass and N were not different between the invaded woodland and the grass removal treatment because of compensation by the native tree Metrosideros polymorpha, which increased litter production by 37%  5% when grasses were removed. The
3658744|Climate change may affect the dynamics of ecosystems and the goods and services they provide. To investigate the consequences of warming and drought for the goods and services provided by different shrublands in various western European countries, an assessment was carried out using results of field manipulation experiments of the CLIMOOR and VULCAN projects. Goods and services of these shrublands mainly encompass biodiversity, various forms of recreation, conservation of culturally and historically important landscapes, groundwater as a drinking water source, and carbon sequestration. Warming of dry lowland heathlands in The Netherlands and Denmark increases nutrient availability, which may lead to grass encroachment reducing biodiversity and decreasing recreational values. Drought may reduce the chances of grass encroachment but increase the chances of disturbances to heather vegetation. Similarly, warming increases and drought decreases the chances of nitrate pollution to the groundwater, which is often used as a drinking water source. Warming of the upland heathland in the UK increases its productivity, which might enable higher grazing densities leading to improved agricultural production. However, complex interactions between heather and invading species may be affected. Furthermore, nitrate production is increased, which may lead to groundwater pollution. Under drought conditions, productivity decreases and agricultural production capacity drops. In the Mediterranean shrubland in Spain, both warming and drought led to a shift in the species composition of seedlings and recruitment, which might lead to a change in the plant community and a reduction in biodiversity. In the drought treatment, a decreasing soil carbon content may lead to a loss of biodiversity, recreational possibilities, and an increased threat of wildfires and erosion.
40296296|Old growth forest soils are large C reservoirs, but the impacts of tree-fall gaps on soil C in these forests are not well understood. The effects of forest gaps on soil C dynamics in old growth northern hardwood-hemlock forests in the upper Great Lakes region, USA, were assessed from measurements of litter and soil C stocks, surface C efflux, and soil microbial indices over two consecutive growing seasons. Forest floor C was significantly less in gaps (19.0 Mg C ha) compared to gapedges (39.5 Mg C ha) and the closed forest (38.0 Mg C ha). Labile soil C (coarse particulate organic matter, cPOM) was significantly less in gaps and edges (11.1 and 11.2 Mg C ha) compared to forest plots (15.3 Mg C ha). In situ surface C efflux was significantly greater in gaps (12.0 Mg C ha y) compared to edges and the closed forest (9.2 and 8.9 Mg C ha y). Microbial biomass N (MBN) was significantly greater in edges (0.14 Mg N ha) than in the contiguous forest (0.09 Mg N ha). The metabolic quotient (qCO) was significantly greater in the forest (0.0031 mg CO h g/mg MBC g) relative to gaps or edges (0.0014 mg CO h g/mg MBC g). A case is made for gaps as alleviators of old growth forest soil C saturation. Relative to the undisturbed closed forest, gaps have significantly less labile C, significantly greater in situ surface C efflux, and significantly lower decreased qCO values.
40792958|Irrigated pondfields and rainfed field systems represented alternative pathways of agricultural intensification that were unevenly distributed across the Hawaiian Archipelago prior to European contact, with pondfields on wetter soils and older islands and rainfed systems on fertile, moderaterainfall upland sites on younger islands. The spatial separation of these systems is thought to have contributed to the dynamics of social and political organization in pre-contact Hawai'i. However, deep stream valleys on older Hawaiian Islands often retain the remains of rainfed dryland agriculture on their lower slopes. We evaluated why rainfed agriculture developed on valley slopes on older but not younger islands by comparing soils of Polol Valley on the young island of Hawai'i with those of Halawa Valley on the older island of Moloka'i. Alluvial valley-bottom and colluvial slope soils of both valleys are enriched 4-5-fold in base saturation and in  that can be weathered, and greater than 10-fold in resin-extractable P and weatherable Ca, compared to soils of their surrounding uplands. However, due to an interaction of volcanically driven subsidence of the young island of Hawai'i with post-glacial sea level rise, the side walls of Polol Valley plunge directly into a flat valley floor, whereas the alluvial floor of Hlawa Valley is surrounded by a band of fertile colluvial soils where rainfed agricultural features were concentrated. Only 5% of Polol Valley supports colluvial soils with slopes between 5 and 12 (suitable for rainfed agriculture), whereas 16% of Hlawa Valley does so. The potential for integrated pondfield/rainfed valley systems of the older Hawaiian Islands increased their advantage in productivity and sustainability over the predominantly rainfed systems of the younger islands.
23253737|Acidification in freshwater ecosystems has important ecological and biogeochemical effects. Temperate streams affected by anthropogenic acidification have been extensively studied, but our understanding of natural acidification in tropical streams has been constrained by the lack of longterm datasets. Here, we analyze 14 years of monthly observations from 13 sampling stations in eight tropical streams in lowland Costa Rica. Stream pH increased during the 4-month dry season and declined throughout the wet season. The magnitude of the seasonal pH decline was greatest following the driest dry seasons, including the historically large El Nio Southern Oscillation event in 1998 when pH values dropped below 4.0 in some streams. Dissolved CO 2 accounts for the low baseline pH in the poorly buffered study streams, and we hypothesize that an influx of soilderived CO 2 via subsurface flow paths contributes to the observed seasonal pH declines. Our results show tight coupling between rainfall, terrestrial, and aquatic ecosystems in the tropics. Predicted decreases in dry season rainfall for the tropics may lead to an increased magnitude of seasonal acidification.
40928240|We aim to define the best nutrient limitation indicator predicting phytoplankton biomass increase as a result of nutrient enrichment (N, P, or both). We compare the abilities of different indicators, based on chemical measurements of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) fractions in the initial plankton community, to predict the limiting factor for phytoplankton growth as inferred independently from short-term laboratory experiments on the same natural communities in a data set from NE Baltic Sea (Tamminen and Andersen, Mar Ecol Prog Ser 340:121-138, 2007). The best indicators had a true positive rate of about 80% for predicting both N and P limitation, but with a higher false positive rate for N than for P limitation (25 vs. 5%). Estimated threshold ratios for total nutrients (TN:TP) were substantially higher than the Redfield ratio, reflecting the relatively high amounts of biologically less available dissolved organic N in the study area. The best overall performing indicator, DIN:TP, had chlorophyll-response based threshold ratios far below Redfield, with N limitation below 2:1 and P limitation above 5:1 (by atoms). On the contrary, paniculate N:P ratio was the overall worst predictor for N or P limitation, with values clustering around the Redfield N:P ratio (16: 1, by atoms) independent of the limiting factor. Estimated threshold ratios based on inorganic nutrients (DIN:DIP) and so-called biologically available nutrients (BAN:BAP = (PON + DIN):(POP + DIP)) were also generally clearly above 16:1, indicating that the Redfield ratio rather reflects the transition from N limitation to combined N + P limitation, than to single limitation by P. Coastal systems are complex systems with regard to nutrient dynamics, historically considered to represent the transition from P-limited freshwater to N-limited marine systems. Our analysis shows that rather simple ratios reflect phytoplankton requirement for nutrients. Based on the high prediction performance, analytical considerations, and general data availability, the DIN:TP ratio appears to be the best indicator for inferring in situ N vs. P limitation of phytoplankton from chemical monitoring data.
25470334|We characterized spatial and temporal changes in nitrate concentrations of the leachate from annual grasslands and subsequently emergent spring-waters and tested the effect of livestock grazing removal on them. Nitrate patterns indicated that annual grassland soils are a likely N source to spring-fed wetlands, which appear to intercept and transform N along its hydrologic path from upland soils to spring-fed, headwater streams. Aboveground biomass and soil N extractions suggested that removal of livestock grazing from these wetlands impaired this function by allowing dead plant material to accumulate inhibiting plant production (hence, plant N demand), resulting in elevated stream-water nitrate (NO) concentrations. Nitrous oxide (NO) fluxes indicated that grazing removal may increase the relative importance of this N-loss pathway. Microbial biomass varied with season but was not affected by grazing treatments suggesting that NO losses were related to differences in NO availability rather than grazing effects on microbial community composition or their activity. Spring-fed wetlands provide important ecosystem services such as plant uptake and denitrification at transition zones between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. These N-retention and transformation functions may be enhanced through biomass harvesting by livestock.
41505899|Eddy covariance was used to measure above-canopy exchanges of CO and water vapor at an operational plantation of hybrid poplar (variety "Walker") established on marginal agricultural land in east central Alberta, Canada. Winter ecosystem respiration (Re) rates were inferred from seasonal changes in the normalized respiration rate at 10C (R) for the growing season and observations of soil CO concentration measured with solid-state probes. Over five consecutive growing seasons following planting, gross ecosystem production (GEP) increased each year, ranging from 21 g C m y in year 1 to 469 g C m y in year 5. During this period, the annual carbon balance shifted from a net source of greater than 330 g C m in year 1 to approximately C-neutral in year 5. Total carbon (C) release over 5 years likely exceeded 630 g C m. Intra-and interannual variations in temperature and soil water availability greatly affected annual C balance each year. GEP and Re were particularly sensitive to temperature during spring and to soil water availability in summer: year 5 was notable because a cold spring and accumulating drought caused growth and carbon uptake to fall well below their potential. Annual evapotranspiration (ET) increased slightly with leaf area, from 281 mm in year 1 to 323 mm in year 4, but in year 5 it declined, while exceeding total precipitation (P). This trend of increasing annual ET/P suggests that annual GEP could become increasingly water-limited in years with below normal precipitation, as the plantation achieves maximum leaf area. Measured canopy albedos did not change appreciably over three winters, suggesting that estimates of increased radiative forcing resulting from afforestation in high latitudes could be exaggerated in regions where fast-growing deciduous plantations are managed on short (~20-year) rotations.
41505934|Global temperature increases and precipitation changes are both expected to alter ecosystem carbon (C) cycling. We tested responses of ecosystem C cycling to simulated climate change using field manipulations of temperature and precipitation across a range of grass-dominated ecosystems along an elevation gradient in northern Arizona. In 2002, we transplanted intact plant-soil mesocosms to simulate warming and used passive interceptors and collectors to manipulate precipitation. We measured daytime ecosystem respiration (ER) and net ecosystem C exchange throughout the growing season in 2008 and 2009. Warming generally stimulated ER and photosynthesis, but had variable effects on daytime net C exchange. Increased precipitation stimulated ecosystem C cycling only in the driest ecosystem at the lowest elevation, whereas decreased precipitation showed no effects on ecosystem C cycling across all ecosystems. No significant interaction between temperature and precipitation treatments was observed. Structural equation modeling revealed that in the wetter-than-average year of 2008, changes in ecosystem C cycling were more strongly affected by warming-induced reduction in soil moisture than by altered precipitation. In contrast, during the drier year of 2009, warming induced increase in soil temperature rather than changes in soil moisture determined ecosystem C cycling. Our findings suggest that warming exerted the strongest influence on ecosystem C cycling in both years, by modulating soil moisture in the wet year and soil temperature in the dry year.
3658688|The relationships among water level, inundated area, and shoreline dynamics were investigated in a bar-braided and an island-braided floodplain of the Tagliamento River in northeast Italy. Ground-based surveys with a differential global positioning system (aGPS) unit were used to delineate all aquatic-terrestrial interfaces (shorelines) in the active floodplain at different water levels. Despite complex inundation patterns, a highly significant (P < 0.00001) linear relationship between water level and arcsine square root of inundated area was found in both reaches (y = 0.49x + 0.07). A highly significant (P < 0.00009) second-order polynomial relationship occurred between water level and shoreline length (
27823678|Relative contributions by macrophytes, epiphyton and phytoplankton to total primary production was estimated in a large (300 km2) widening of the St. Lawrence River (Canada), over a 2-year period with contrasting flows and water levels. Spatially-explicit estimates of whole-system production were obtained by combining field measurements with remotely sensed data and empirical models using GIS. Primary production and relative contributions of each producer type differed markedly between open-water and wetland habitats. Spatial differences within each habitat arose from interactions between physical factors including light, water depth, water transit times and wind stress. At the whole-system level, annual primary production represented 105 gC m2 y1, divided roughly equally among phytoplankton (34%), submerged macrophytes (27%), emergent macrophytes (23%) and epiphyton (16%). A 10% decrease in annual flows and 1-m decline in water levels between 2000 and 2001 resulted in a 50% loss of marsh habitat, a 60% increase in phytoplankton production in the open-water zone, and in the appearance of conspicuous filamentous algal mats. Low water levels induced substantial shifts in the spatial configuration and relative importance of primary producers although total river primary production remained stable between years.
3658994|Although it is generally acknowledged that invasions by exotic plant species represent a major threat to biodiversity and ecosystem stability, little attention has been paid to the potential impacts of these invasions on nutrient cycling processes in the soil. The literature on plant-soil interactions strongly suggests that the introduction of a new plant species, such as an invasive exotic, has the potential to change many components of the carbon (C), nitrogen (N), water, and other cycles of an ecosystem. I have reviewed studies that compare pool sizes and flux rates of the major nutrient cycles in invaded and noninvaded systems for invasions of 56 species. The available data suggest that invasive plant species frequently increase biomass and net primary production, increase N availability, alter N fixation rates, and produce litter with higher decomposition rates than co-occurring natives. However, the opposite patterns also occur, and patterns of difference between exotics and native species show no trends in some other components of nutrient cycles (for example, the size of soil pools of C and N). In some cases, a given species has different effects at different sites, suggesting that the composition of the invaded community and/or environmental factors such as soil type may determine the direction and magnitude of ecosystem-level impacts. Exotic plants alter soil nutrient dynamics by differing from native species in biomass and productivity, tissue chemistry, plant morphology, and phenology. Future research is needed to (a) experimentally test the patterns suggested by this data set; (b) examine fluxes and pools for which few data are available, including whole-site budgets; and (c) determine the magnitude of the difference in plant characteristics and in plant dominance within a community that is needed to alter ecosystem processes. Such research should be an integral component of the evaluation of the impacts of invasive species.
41505953|Variability and future alterations in regional and global climate patterns may exert a strong control on the carbon dioxide (CO) exchange of grassland ecosystems. We used 6 years of eddy-covariance measurements to evaluate the impacts of seasonal and inter-annual variations in environmental conditions on the net ecosystem CO exchange (NEE), gross ecosystem production (GEP), and ecosystem respiration (ER) of an intensively managed grassland in the humid temperate climate of southern Ireland. In all the years of the study period, considerable uptake of atmospheric CO occurred in this grassland with a narrow range in the annual NEE from 245 to 284 g C m y, with the exception of 2008 in which the NEE reached 352 g C m y. None of the measured environmental variables (air temperature (Ta), soil moisture, photosynthetically active radiation, vapor pressure deficit (VPD), precipitation (PPT), and so on) correlated with NEE on a seasonal or annual scale because of the equal responses from the component fluxes GEP and ER to variances in these variables. Pronounced reduction of summer PPT in two out of the six studied years correlated with decreases in both GEP and ER, but not with NEE. Thus, the stable annual NEE was primarily achieved through a strong coupling of ER and GEP on seasonal and annual scales. Limited inter-annual variations in Ta ( 0.5C) and generally sufficient soil moisture availability may have further favored a stable annual NEE. Monthly ecosystem carbon use efficiency (CUE; as the ratio of NEE:GEP) during the main growing season (April 1-September 30) was negatively correlated with temperature and VPD, but positively correlated with soil moisture, whereas the annual CUE correlated negatively with annual NEE. Thus, although drier and warmer summers may mildly reduce the uptake potential, the annual uptake of atmospheric CO, in this intensively managed grassland, may be expected to continue even under predicted future climatic changes in the humid temperate climate region.
3658945|The addition of nitrogen via deposition alters the carbon balance of temperate forest ecosystems by affecting both production and decomposition rates. The effects of 20 years of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus and potassium (PK) additions were studied in a 40-year-old pine stand in northern Sweden. Carbon fluxes of the forest floor were reconstructed using a combination of data on soil
27823737|The Mediterranean red coral (Corallium rubrum, L. 1758) is a slow-growing longevous gorgonian that produces a red calcium carbonate skeleton, which is in high demand by the jewellery industry. Its long history of intensive commercial harvesting has resulted in a well-documented decline of its stocks throughout the Mediterranean, becoming especially apparent during the last two decades. Based on the extensive ecological data from the Costa Brava (NE Spain) stocks, this study reviews, for the first time, socioeconomic aspects and the impact of current fishing practices on the red coral population structure and reproductive biology. A comparison of the intensively harvested populations in shallow water with that of the infrequently harvested ones in deep water, along with a population in a marine reserve as well, reveals that 98% of all shallow water colonies show a juvenile size and branching pattern as a result of harvesting. Recent data on the reproductive biology of the species show that 91% of the colonies in shallow water populations (<60 m depth) are not 100% sexually mature. These populations are clearly at the limit of their recoverability potential. The maximum sustainable yield (estimated using the Beverton-Holt model) is reached at an age of first capture of 98 years, although the current regulations allow harvesting of approximately 11-year-old colonies (corresponding to a basal diameter of 7 mm). The presented data reveal how this renewable resource is being exploited in a clearly non-sustainable and inefficient way, changing significantly the underwater landscape of the Mediterranean coast. The review of all available data suggests that the shallow water stocks are depleted. Furthermore, recent trends in poaching of juvenile colonies and mass mortality events threaten the survival of the shallow water populations. A ban on reconstituted coral from the market appears to be the only option to control this form of poaching.
41507784|Arctic ecosystems are important habitats for Arctic breeding geese which in their turn have a profound impact on the vegetation in these areas. The herbivore pressure is currently on the rise in the region and may interact with climate change to drive changes in both productivity and decomposition rates. In this study, we aim to determine the combined impact of warming and geese on C pools and decomposition in two high Arctic habitats, mesic heath and wet meadow. We employed field-experimental warming and grazing treatments in a fully factorial design and quantified their impact on ecosystems C pools and turnover. High grazing levels reduced vascular biomass and litter C pools at both sites, whereas warming reduced moss biomass at the mesic site only. Grazing increased decomposition rates and reduced the amount of labile C in the soil at the mesic site, whereas warming substantially reduced concentrations by approximately 25%. Intermediate level of grazing had an opposite effect and resulted in increased soil the treatment on belowground cycling were found at the wet site. In conclusion, the two levels of grazing and warming impacted on different aspects of the cycle investigated in this study. The high grazing and warming treatment promoted reduced carbon storage/decomposition both aboveand belowground with the strongest effects seen at the mesic site.
27823722|Cross-scale spatial and temporal perspectives are important for studying contagious landscape disturbances such as fire, which are controlled by myriad processes operating at different scales. We examine fire regimes in forests of western North America, focusing on how observed patterns of fire frequency change across spatial scales. To quantify changes in fire frequency across spatial scale, we derive the event-area (EA) relationship and the analogous interval-area (IA) relationship using historical and simulated data from low- and high-severity fire regimes. The EA and IA provide multiscale descriptions of fire regimes, as opposed to standard metrics that may apply only at a single scale. Parameters and properties of scaling functions (intercept, slope, minimum value) are associated statistically with properties of the fire regime, such as mean fire-free intervals and fire size distributions, but are not direct mathematical transformations of them because they also reflect mechanistic drivers of fire that are non-stationary in time and space. Patterns in fire-scaling relations can be used to identify how controls on fire regimes change across spatial and temporal scales. Future research that considers fire as a cross-scale process will be directly applicable to landscape-scale fire management.
41507789|Some aquatic systems have disproportionately high nutrient processing rates, and may be important to nutrient retention within river networks. However, the contribution of such biogeochemical hot spots also depends on water residence time and hydrologic connections within the system. We examined the balance of these factors in a comparative study of nitrate (NO) uptake across stream and flowthrough wetland reaches of northern Wisconsin, USA. The experimental design compared NO uptake at different levels: the ecosystem level, for reaches (n = 9) consisting of morphologically contrasting subreaches (SLOW, low mean water velocity; REF, reference, or higher mean water velocity); the sub-ecosystem level, for subreaches consisting of morphologically contrasting zones (TS, transient storage zone; MC, main channel zone). SLOW subreaches had 45% lower ecosystem-level uptake rate (K, t ) on average, indicating reduced uptake efficiency in flow-through wetlands relative to streams. The four largest K values (total n = 24) also occured in REF sub-reaches. TS:MC uptake rate varied (range 0.16.0), but MC zones consistently accounted for most NO uptake by the ecosystem. In turn, TS influence was limited by a tradeoff between TS zone uptake rate and the strength of TS-MC hydrologic connection ( or F med ). Additional modeling of published hydrologic parameter sets showed that strong MC dominance of uptake (> 75% of total uptake), at the scale of solute release methods (meters to kilometers, hours to days), is common among streams and rivers. Our results emphasize that aquatic nutrient retention is the outcome of a balance involving nutrient uptake efficiency, water residence time, and the strength of hydrologic connections between nutrient sources and sinks. This balance restricts the influence of hydrologically disconnected biota on nutrient transport, and could apply to diverse ecosystem types and sizes.
3658624|At two sites at the extreme ends of a soil development chronosequence in Hawaii, we investigated whether forest responses to fertilization on young soils were similar to those on highly weathered soils and whether the initial responses were maintained after 6-11 years of fertilization. Aboveground net primary production (ANPP) was increased by nitrogen (N) application at the 300-year-old site and phosphorus (P) application at the 4.1-million-year-old site, thus confirming earlier results and their designations as N- and P-limited forests. Along with ANPP, application of the limiting element consistently increased leaf area index (LAI), radiation conversion efficiency (RCE), and foliar and litter nutrient concentrations. Fertilization did not consistently alter N or P retranslocation from senescent leaves at either site, but a comparison with other sites on the chronosequence and with a common-garden study suggests that there is a genetic basis for low foliar and litter nutrients and higher retranslocation at infertile sites vs more fertile sites. N limitation appears to be expressed as limitation to carbon gain, with long leaf lifespans and high leaf mass per area. P limitation results in high P-use efficiency and disproportionally large increases in P uptake after fertilization; a comparison with other studies indicates large investments in acquiring and storing P. Although the general responses of ANPP, LAI, and RCE were similar for the two sites, other aspects of nutrient use differ in relation to the physiological and biogeochemical roles of the two elements.
3658634|To examine the linkage between forest cover type, litter inputs, and patterns of net N mineralization versus the turnover of N among soil microbes, we measured both the net and gross rates of N mineralization in replicated, adjacent old-growth eastern hemlock [Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr.] or sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.) stands in upper Michigan. Mean aboveground net primary production and annual litterfall mass were significantly higher (P < 0.01) in the maple forests (
41505926|Climate change is altering long-term climatic conditions and increasing the magnitude of weather fluctuations. Assessing the consequences of these changes for terrestrial ecosystems requires understanding how different vegetation types respond to climate and weather. This study examined 20 years of regional-scale remotely sensed net primary productivity (NPP) in forests of the northern Lake States to identify how the relationship between NPP and climate or weather differ among forest types, and if NPP patterns are influenced by landscape-scale evenness of forest-type abundance. These results underscore the positive relationship between temperature and NPP. Importantly, these results indicate significant differences among broadly defined forest types in response to both climate and weather. Essentially all weather variables that were strongly related to annual NPP displayed significant differences among forest types, suggesting complementarity in response to environmental fluctuations. In addition, this study found that forest-type evenness (within 8 x 8 km areas) is positively related to long-term NPP mean and negatively related to NPP variability, suggesting that NPP in pixels with greater forest-type evenness is both higher and more stable through time. This is landscape-to subcontinental-scale evidence of a relationship between primary productivity and one measure of biological diversity. These results imply that anthropogenic or natural processes that influence the proportional abundance of forest types within landscapes may influence long-term productivity patterns.
40296325|Despite a recent emphasis on understanding crosshabitat interactions, few studies have examined the ecological linkages between lakes and surrounding terrestrial habitats. The current paradigm of landlake interactions is typically unidirectional: the view is that nutrients and matter are transported downslope from the surrounding watershed to their ultimate lacustrine destination. Emergent aquatic insects, which spend their larval stages in lake sediments and emerge as adults to mate over land, can act as vectors of material, energy and nutrients from aquatic to terrestrial habitats. In this study, we document a gradient of midge (Diptera: Chironomidae) infall rates into terrestrial habitats (measured as g dw midges m d) surrounding eight lakes in Northern Iceland (66N latitude). Lakes ranged from having virtually no midge infall (for example, Helluvadstjorn, 0.03 g m d) to extreme levels (for example, Myvatn, 19 g m d) with abundances of midges decreasing logarithmically with distance from shore. Annual midge input rates are estimated as high as 1200-2500 kg midges ha y. As midges are approximately 9.2% total N, this can result in a significant fertilization effect of terrestrial habitats with consequences for plant quality and community structure. In addition, we used naturally-occurring C and N isotopes to examine food web structure and diet sources of terrestrial arthropod consumers surrounding lakes with differing amounts of midge input. Terrestrial arthropods showed increased utilization of aquaticderived (that is, midge) C relative to terrestrial sources as midge infall increased. This pattern was particularly pronounced for predators, such as spiders and opiliones, and some detritivores (Collembola). These findings suggest that, despite being largely ignored, aquatic-to-terrestrial linkages can be large and midges can fuel terrestrial communities by directly serving as resources for predators and decomposers.
40296418|Climate change predictions for the desert southwestern U.S. are for shifts in precipitation patterns. The impacts of climate change may be significant, because desert soil processes are strongly controlled by precipitation inputs ("pulses") via their effect on soil water availability. This study examined the response of soil respirationan important biological process that affects soil carbon (C) storageto variation in pulses representative of climate change scenarios for the Sonoran Desert. Because deserts are mosaics of different plant cover types and soil textureswhich create patchiness in soil respirationwe examined how these landscape characteristics interact to affect the response of soil respiration to pulses. Pulses were applied to experimental plots of bare and vegetated soil on contrasting soil textures typical of Sonoran Desert grasslands. The data were analyzed within a Bayesian framework to: (1) determine pulse size and antecedent moisture (soil moisture prior to the pulse) effects on soil respiration, (2) quantify soil texture (coarse vs. fine) and cover type (bare vs. vegetated) effects on the response of soil respiration and its components (plant vs. microbial) to pulses, and (3) explore the relationship between long-term variation in pulse regimes and seasonal soil respiration. Regarding objective (1), larger pulses resulted in higher respiration rates, particularly from vegetated fine-textured soil, and dry antecedent conditions amplified respiration responses to pulses (wet antecedent conditions dampened the pulse response). Regarding (2), autotrophic (plant) activity was a significant source (~ 60%) of respiration and was more sensitive to pulses on coarse-versus fine-textured soils. The sensitivity of heterotrophic (microbial) respiration to pulses was highly dependent on antecedent soil water. Regarding (3), seasonal soil respiration was predicted to increase with both growing season precipitation and mean pulse size (but only for pulses between 7 and 25 mm). Thus, the heterogeneity of the desert landscape and the timing or the number of medium-sized pulses is expected to significantly impact desert soil C loss with climate change.
40296416|Managed ecosystems experience vulnerabilities when ecological resilience declines and key flows of ecosystem services become depleted or lost. Drivers of vulnerability often include local management actions in conjunction with other external, largerscale factors. To translate these concepts to management applications, we developed a conceptual model of feedbacks linking the provision of ecosystem services, their use by society, and anthropogenic change. From this model we derived a method to integrate existing geodata at relevant scales and in locally meaningful ways to provide decision-support for adaptive management efforts. To demonstrate our approach, we conducted a case study assessment of southeast Alaska, where managers are concerned with sustaining fish and wildlife resources in areas where intensive logging disturbance has occurred. Individual datasets were measured as indicators of one of three criteria: ecological capacity to support fish/wildlife populations (provision); human acquisition of fish/wildlife resources (use); and intensity of logging and related land-use change (disturbance). Relationships among these processes were analyzed using two methodsa watershed approach and a high-resolution rasterto identify where provision, use and disturbance were spatially coupled across the landscape. Our results identified very small focal areas of social-ecological coupling that, based on postlogging dynamics and other converging drivers of change, may indicate vulnerability resulting from depletion of ecosystem services. We envision our approach can be used to narrow down where adaptive management might be most beneficial, allowing practitioners with limited funds to prioritize efforts needed to address uncertainty and mitigate vulnerability in managed ecosystems.
25053801|Woody encroachment, a spatially explicit process of land-cover change, is known to affect the biophysical and biogeochemical properties of ecosystems. However, little information is available on the impacts of woody encroachment on N oxide emissions from savanna regions. We combined hyperspectral remote sensing and field measurements to quantify spatial patterns and estimate regional fluxes of soil N oxide emissions as they covary with vegetation cover and soil type across a semiarid rangeland in north Texas. Soil nitric oxide (NO) emissions were highly correlated with Prosopis canopy cover, allowing the extrapolation of NO fluxes from hyperspectral observations of woody cover. NO emissions were highly variable, ranging from 0 to 550 kg NO-N
23253739|Although tropical forests occupy a small fraction of the earth's total land area, they play a disproportionately large role in regulating the global carbon cycle. Yet controls on both primary productivity and decomposition in tropical forests are not well-studied in comparison with temperate forests and grasslands, despite their extreme biogeochemical heterogeneity. To evaluate the relative importance of climate and foliar chemical variables in driving decomposition in tropical forests, I performed a meta-analysis of reported leaf litter decay rates throughout tropical forest ecosystems. Using a model selection procedure based on Akaike's Information Criterion, I found that temperature and precipitation played little direct role in regulating decomposition rates, except in montane forests where cool temperatures slowed decay. Foliar concentrations of calcium, magnesium, nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium were important predictors of mass loss rates, although each of these factors explained a very small amount of variance when considered in isolation. The large amount of unexplained variation in decomposition rates observed both within and across tropical forest sites may be due to other factors not explored here, such as soil biota or complex plant secondary chemistry. Carbon cycling in tropical forests seems to be modulated by the availability of multiple nutrients, underscoring the need for additional manipulative experiments to explore patterns of belowground nutrient limitation across the biome. Because models of decomposition developed in temperate ecosystems do not appear to be generalizable to wet tropical forests, new biogeochemical paradigms should be developed to accommodate their unique combination of climatic, edaphic, and biotic factors.
43677508|Plant diversity in groundwater-fed wetland ecosystems is typically extraordinarily high, yet the biogeochemical controls of this diversity are still incompletely understood. We hypothesized that fine-scale variation in sulfide would influence plant community composition via direct phytotoxicity and indirect mediation of phosphorus release from iron, coupled with gradients in other chemicals such as calcium. We measured porewater chemistry and plant species composition at 400 locations within a calcareous rich fen in central New York State. Ground water-derived calcium (Ca) and sulfate and redox-sensitive sulfide and ferrous iron (Fe) showed high heterogeneity. Phosphorus availability was limited and not readily traceable to toxic sulfide, whereas nitrogen (TDN) was more abundant than expected. Using the corrected Akaike information criterion to select between competing models of toxic, nutrient, and mixedchemistry influences on vegetation, we found that hydrogen sulfide explained decreases in total plant cover, cover of the three most frequently occurring species, dicot species density, plant height, and litter accumulation. Furthermore, sulfide coupled with calcium and phosphorus to explain plant species density and composition. Sulfide was more likely to explain decreased cover of dominant species than rare species. The presence and cover of uncommon species was often unexpectedly explained best by Fe and sulfate, but all models of plant responses with environmental predictor variables were better than the "null" model of mean plant response that lacked environmental variables. An integrated geochemical assessment of coupled groundwater chemistry, redox-sensitive chemistry, and nutrient influences on plants demonstrated the importance of phytotoxic sulfide in explaining plant species density and composition.
23328059|Nitrogen (N) retention by tree canopies is believed to be an important process for tree nutrient uptake, and its quantification is a key issue in determining the impact of atmospheric N deposition on forest ecosystems. Due to dry deposition and retention by other canopy elements, the actual uptake and assimilation by the tree canopy is often obscured in throughfall studies. In this study, 15 N-labeled solutions ( ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ and ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ ) were used to assess dissolved inorganic N retention by leaves/needles and twigs of European beech, pedunculate oak, silver birch, and Scots pine saplings. The effects of N form, tree species, leaf phenology, and applied $\mathrm{N}{\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ to ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ ratio on the N retention were assessed. Retention patterns were mainly determined by foliar uptake, except for Scots pine. In twigs, a small but significant 15 N enrichment was detected for ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ , which was found to be mainly due to physicochemical adsorption to the woody plant surface. The mean ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}/{}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ retention ratio varied considerably among species and phenological stadia, which indicates that the use of a fixed ratio in the canopy budget model could lead to an over- or underestimation of the total N retention. In addition, throughfall water under each branch was collected and analyzed for ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ , ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ , and all major ions. Net throughfall of ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ was, on average, 20 times higher than the actual retention of ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ by the plant material. This difference in ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ retention could not be attributed to pools and fluxes measured in this study. The retention of ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ was correlated with the net throughfall of K + , Mg 2+ , Ca 2+ , and weak acids during leaf development and the fully leafed period, while no significant relationships were found for ${}^{15}{\mathrm{N}\mathrm{O}}_{3}^{-}$ retention. This suggests that the main driving factors for ${\mathrm{N}\mathrm{H}}_{4}^{+}$ retention might be ion exchange processes during the start and middle of the growing season and passive diffusion at leaf senescence. Actual assimilation or abiotic uptake of N through leaves and twigs was small in this study, for example, 15% of the applied dissolved 15 N, indicating that the impact of canopy N retention from wet deposition on forest productivity and carbon sequestration is likely limited.
40296381|A field experiment was established to quantify the effects of different amounts of rainfall on root growth and dry mass of belowground plant parts in three types of grassland ecosystems. Mountain (Nardus grassland), highland (wet Cirsium grassland), and lowland grassland (dry Festuca grassland) ecosystems were studied in 2006 and 2007. Roofs constructed above the canopy of grass stands and gravity irrigation systems simulated three climate scenarios: (1) rainfall reduced by 50%, (2) rainfall enhanced by 50%, and (3) the full natural rainfall of the current growing season. Experimentally reduced amounts of precipitation significantly affected both yearly root increments and total root dry mass in the highland grassland. Dry conditions in 2007 resulted in considerable reduction of total belowground dry mass in highland and mountain grasslands. Although not all differences in root biomass of studied grasslands were statistically significantly, some also showed a decrease in root increment and in the amount of belowground dry mass in dry conditions.
40296294|Data from several years of monthly samplings are combined with a 1-year detailed study of carbon flux through bacteria at a NW Mediterranean coastal site to delineate the bacterial role in carbon use and to assess whether environmental factors or bacterial assemblage composition affected the in situ rates of bacterial carbon processing. Leucine (Leu) uptake rates [as an estimate of bacterial heterotrophic production (BHP)] showed high interannual variability but, on average, lower values were found in winter (around 50 pM Leu h) as compared to summer (around 150 pM Leu h). Leu-to-carbon conversion factors ranged from 0.9 to 3.6 kgC mol Leu , with generally higher values in winter. Leu uptake was only weakly correlated to temperature, and over a fullyear cycle (in 2003), Leu uptake peaked concomitantly with winter chlorophyll a (Chi a) maxima, and in periods of high ectoenzyme activities in spring and summer. This suggests that both low molecular weight dissolved organic matter (DOM) released by phytoplankton, and high molecular weight DOM in periods of low Chi a, can enhance BHP. Bacterial respiration (BR, range 7-48 g C d) was not correlated to BHP or temperature, but was significantly correlated to DOC concentration. Total bacterial carbon demand (BHP plus BR) was only met by dissolved organic carbon produced by phytoplankton during the winter period. We measured bacterial growth efficiencies by the short-term and the long-term methods and they ranged from 3 to 42%, increasing during the phytoplankton blooms in winter (during the Chi a peaks), and in spring. Changes in bacterioplankton assemblage structure (as depicted by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis fingerprinting) were not coupled to changes in ecosystem functioning, at least in bacterial carbon use.
23501444|Changes in forest composition as a result of forest management, natural disturbances, and climate change may affect the accumulation of soil organic carbon (SOC). We examined the influence of common boreal tree species (trembling aspen, black spruce, and jack pine), either in pure stands or in conifer-broadleaf mixtures, on the amount, distribution, and quality of SOC in two regions of the Canadian boreal biome. Long-term laboratory incubations were used to assess SOC quality by quantifying proportions of fast carbon (C) (that is, proportion of total C released during the first 100 days of incubation) and active C (that is, modeled proportion of total C that can be potentially released). Total amounts of SOC did not differ between stand types, but the effects of stand type on SOC stocks and quality differed with soil depth. Among stand types, aspen stands had the greatest relative proportion of total SOC in deeper mineral layers and the lowest amount of active C in the organic layer. For these reasons, the SOC stock that developed under aspen was more stable than in the other stand types. Although black spruce stands allowed a greater accumulation of SOC in surface layers, these stocks, however, might become more vulnerable to extra losses if environmental conditions are to become more favorable to decomposition in the future. Our work highlights that boreal forest composition influences the stability of SOC stocks and how climate change could alter this large C pool.
3658984|This report summarizes our current knowledge of leaf-level physiological processes that regulate carbon gain and water loss of the dominant tree species in an old-growth forest at the Wind River Canopy Crane Research Facility. Analysis includes measurements of photosynthesis, respiration, stomatal conductance, water potential, stable carbon isotope values, and biogenic hydrocarbon emissions from Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla), and western red cedar (Thuja plicata). Leaf-level information is used to scale fluxes up to the canopy to estimate gross primary production using a physiology-based process model. Both light-saturated and in situ photosynthesis exhibit pronounced vertical gradients through the canopy, but are consistently highest in Douglas-fir, intermediate in western hemlock, and lowest in western red cedar. Net photosynthesis and stomatal conductance are strongly dependent on vapor-pressure deficit in Douglas-fir, and decline through the course of a seasonal drought. Foliar respiration is similar for Douglas-fir and western hemlock, and lowest for western red cedar. Water-use efficiency varied with species and tree height, as indexed using stable carbon isotopes values for foliage. Leaf water potential is most negative for Douglas-fir and similar for western hemlock and western red cedar. Terpene fluxes from foliage equal approximately 1% of the net carbon loss from the forest. Modeled estimates based on physiological measurements show gross primary productivity (GPP) to be about
3659032| Although mountainous landscapes dominate large areas of the Earth, our understanding of how elevation and aspect influence soil respiration in complex mountainous terrain is very limited. Therefore, we measured soil respiration throughout the growing season in 1999 and 2000 at 11 forested sites in Olympic National Park, Washington, USA along elevation-climatic gradients. The study sites ranged from temperate rain forest to alpine forests near tree line. Soil temperature was a significant predictor of soil respiration at all sites, and soil moisture explained additional variability at three sites (R
3658588|Net primary productivity (NPP) represents the greatest annual carbon flux from the atmosphere to the biosphere, is an important component of seasonal fluctuations in atmospheric CO
40296379|The carbon balance of tropical peatlands was investigated using measurements of gaseous fluxes of carbon dioxide (CO) and methane (CH) at several land-use types, including nondrained forest (NDF), drained forest (DF), drained regenerating forest (DRF) after clear cutting and agricultural land (AL) in Central Kalimantan, Indonesia. Soil greenhouse gas fluxes depended on land-use, water level (WL), microtopography, temperature and vegetation physiology, among which WL was the strongest driver. All sites were CH sources on an annual basis and the emissions were higher in sites providing fresh litter deposition and water logged conditions. Soil CO flux increased exponentially with soil temperature
3658619|Changes in the ecological stoichiometry of C, N, and P in the pelagic zone are reported from a whole-lake manipulation of the food web of Lake 227, an experimentally eutrophied lake at the Experimental Lakes Area, Canada. Addition of northern pike eliminated populations of planktivorous minnows by the third year (1995) after pike introduction, and in the fourth year after pike addition (1996), a massive increase in the abundance of the large-bodied cladoceran Daphnia pulicaria occurred. Accompanying this increase in Daphnia abundance, zooplankton community N:P declined, seston concentration and C:P ratio decreased, and dissolved N and P pools increased. During peak abundance, zooplankton biomass comprised a significant proportion of total epilimnetic phosphorus (greater than 30%). During the period of increased Daphnia abundance, concentrations of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (TIN) increased more strongly than dissolved phosphorus (TDP), and thus TIN:TDP ratios were elevated. Sedimentation data indicated that increased grazing led to greatly reduced residence times of C, N, and especially P in the water column during 1996. Finally, previously dominant N-fixing cyanobacteria were absent during 1996. Our results show that strong effects of food-web structure can occur in eutrophic lakes and that stoichiometric mechanisms play a potentially important role in generating these effects.
23325684|Disparate ecological datasets are often organized into databases post hoc and then analyzed and interpreted in ways that may diverge from the purposes of the original data collections. Few studies, however, have attempted to quantify how biases inherent in these data (for example, species richness, replication, climate) affect their suitability for addressing broad scientific questions, especially in under-represented systems (for example, deserts, tropical forests) and wild communities. Here, we quantitatively compare the sensitivity of species first flowering and leafing dates to spring warmth in two phenological databases from the Northern Hemisphere. OnePEP725has high replication within and across sites, but has low species diversity and spans a limited climate gradient. The otherNECTARincludes many more species and a wider range of climates, but has fewer sites and low replication of species across sites. PEP725, despite low species diversity and relatively low seasonality, accurately captures the magnitude and seasonality of warming responses at climatically similar NECTAR sites, with most species showing earlier phenological events in response to warming. In NECTAR, the prevalence of temperature responders significantly declines with increasing mean annual temperature, a pattern that cannot be detected across the limited climate gradient spanned by the PEP725 flowering and leafing data. Our results showcase broad areas of agreement between the two databases, despite significant differences in species richness and geographic coverage, while also noting areas where including data across broader climate gradients may provide added value. Such comparisons help to identify gaps in our observations and knowledge base that can be addressed by ongoing monitoring and research efforts. Resolving these issues will be critical for improving predictions in understudied and undersampled systems outside of the temperature seasonal mid-latitudes.
27823714|Estimating changes in belowground biomass and production is essential for understanding fundamental patterns and processes during ecosystem development. We examined patterns of fine root production, aboveground litterfall, and forest floor accumulation during forest primary succession at the Mt. Shasta Mudflows ecosystem chronosequence. Fine root production was measured using the root ingrowth cores method over 1 year, and aboveground litterfall was collected over 2 years. Fine root production increased significantly with ecosystem age, but only the youngest ecosystem was significantly different from all of the older ecosystems. Root production was 44.5  13.3, 168.3  20.6, 190.5  33.8, and 236.3  65.4 g m2 y1 in the 77, 255, 616, and >850-year-old ecosystems, respectively. Generally, aboveground litterfall and forest floor accumulation did not follow the same pattern as root production. The relative contribution of fine root production to total fine detrital production increased significantly with ecosystem age, from 14 to 49%, but only the youngest ecosystem was significantly different from all of the older ecosystems. Fine root production was significantly correlated with some measures of soil fertility but was not correlated with leaf or total litterfall, or forest floor accumulation. It was best predicted by soil N concentration alone, but this relationship may not be causal, as soil N concentration was also correlated with ecosystem age. For the oldest ecosystem, fine root production was also measured using the sequential intact cores/compartment-flow model method, and the difference between the two estimates was not significant. Our study suggests that the relative contribution of fine roots to fine detrital production, and hence to soil organic matter accumulation, may increase during forest primary succession.
23501466|Rapid changes in global climate are likely to alter species assemblages and environmental characteristics resulting in novel ecosystems. The ability to predict characteristics of future ecosystems is crucial for environmental planning and the development of effective climate change adaptation strategies. This paper presents an approach for envisioning novel ecosystems in future climates. Focusing on riparian ecosystems, we use qualitative process models to predict likely abiotic and biotic changes in four case study systems: tropical coastal floodplains, temperate streams, high mountain streams and urban riparian zones. We concentrate on functional groups rather than individual species and consider dispersal constraints and the capacity for genetic adaptation. Our scenarios suggest that climatic changes will reduce indigenous diversity, facilitate non-indigenous invasion (especially C4 graminoids), increase fragmentation and result in simplified and less distinctive riparian ecosystems. Compared to models based on biota-environment correlations, process models built on mechanistic understanding (like Bayesian belief networks) are more likely to remain valid under novel climatic conditions. We posit that predictions based on species' functional traits will facilitate regional comparisons and can highlight effects of climate change on ecosystem structure and function. Ecosystems that have experienced similar modification to that expected under climate change (for example, altered flow regimes of regulated rivers) can be used to help inform and evaluate predictions. By manipulating attributes of these system models (for example, magnitude of climatic changes or adaptation strategies used), implications of various scenarios can be assessed and optimal management strategies identified.
40928227|In coastal marine ecosystems, hypoxia and anoxia are emerging as growing threats whose ecological impacts are difficult to ascertain because of the frequent lack of adequate references for comparison. We applied conventional and hierarchical ensemble analyses to evaluate the weight of evidence in support of hypoxia impacts on local densities of individual and groups of demersal fish and invertebrate species in Hood Canal, WA, which is subject to seasonal hypoxia in its southern reaches. Central to our approach was a sample design and analysis scheme that was designed specifically to consider multiple alternative hypotheses regarding factors that dictate local species' densities. We anticipated persistent effects of hypoxia (felt even when seasonal hypoxia was absent) on species densities would be most pronounced for sessile species, but that immediate effects (felt only when seasonal hypoxia was present) would dominate for mobile species. Conventional analysis provided strong evidence that densities of sessile species were persistently reduced in the hypoxic-impacted site, but did not indicate widespread immediate density responses during hypoxic events among mobile species. The absence of strong weights of evidence for hypoxia effects was partly a consequence of alternative hypotheses that better explained spatial-temporal variation in species' densities. The hierarchical ensemble analysis improved the precision of species-specific effect sizes, and also allowed us to make inferences about the response of aggregated groups of species. The estimated mean density reductions during hypoxic events (dissolved oxygen ~ 2 mg/l) ranged from 73 to 98% among mobile invertebrates, benthic, and benthopelagic fishes. The large reduction in benthic and benthopelagic species suggests substantial effects of hypoxia in Hood Canal even at oxygen levels that were marginally hypoxic. Understanding the full ecological consequence of hypoxia will require a greater knowledge on the spatial extent of distributional shifts and their effects on competitive and predator-prey interactions.
40603502|In urban landscapes, nearby birds contribute to allochthonous nutrient flow from residential areas to fragmented forests by consuming food in residential areas and depositing feces in forests. To estimate allochthonous nutrient flow qualitatively, the stable nitrogen () and carbon (C) isotope approach is useful. However, the quantitative allochthonous flow rate cannot be estimated by the stable-isotope approach. To quantify allochthonous input, we compare two different landscapes. We assume that the input rate in deep forests in the forest-dominated landscape is the basic autochthonous flow that is common to various forests, and estimate the allochthonous nutrient input by subtracting the autochthonous flow from the total input in urban forests. The observed nutrient-input rate in the forest-dominated landscape as the autochthonous flow is 0.0298 kg P hay and 0.319 kg N hay. Using these values, the allochthonous N input (kg P hay) is estimated at 0.0307 in urban fragmented forests and 2.31 in forests with crow roosts, whereas N input (kg N hay) is 0.397 in urban fragmented forests and 23.2 in forests with crow roosts. Our estimation shows that, in urban forests with roosts, birds contribute 2.7 times the amount of allochthonous N contributed via other pathways, and in urban forests without roosts they contribute 0.035 times the amount; and in addition, birds contribute 0.66 times the amount of allochthonous N input via other pathways in urban forests with crow roosts and 0.011 times the amount in urban forests without roosts. We also measure stable nitrogen and carbon isotope ratios, %N, %P, and %C to estimate the diet of birds. High  and C values in crow roosts indicate that they eat foods such as livestock meat, C maize, or fish. High avian biomass is the major reason for the large nutrient input in urban landscapes, especially in urban forests with crow roosts.
3658961|Although limnologists have long been interested in regional patterns in lake attributes, only recently have they considered lakes connected and organized across the landscape, rather than as spatially independent entities. Here we explore the spatial organization of lake districts through the concept of landscape position, a concept that considers lakes longitudinally along gradients of geomorphology and hydrology. We analyzed long-term chemical and biological data from nine lake chains (lakes in a series connected through surface or groundwater flow) from seven lake districts of diverse hydrologic and geomorphic settings across North America. Spatial patterns in lake variables driven by landscape position were surprisingly common across lake districts and across a wide range of variables. On the other hand, temporal patterns of lake variables, quantified using synchrony, the degree to which pairs of lakes exhibit similar dynamics through time, related to landscape position only for lake chains with lake water residence times that spanned a wide range and were generally long (close to or greater than 1 year). Highest synchrony of lakes within a lake chain occurred when lakes had short water residence times. Our results from both the spatial and temporal analyses suggest that certain features of the landscape position concept are robust enough to span a wide range of seemingly disparate lake types. The strong spatial patterns observed in this analysis, and some unexplained patterns, suggest the need to further study these scales and to continue to view lake ecosystems spatially, longitudinally, and broadly across the landscape.
40603634|Long-term, landscape patterns in inorganic nitrogen (N) availability and N stocks following infrequent, stand-replacing fire are unknown but are important for interpreting the effect of disturbances on ecosystem function. Here, we present results from a replicated chronosequence study in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (Wyoming, USA) directed at measuring inorganic N availability (ionexchange resin bags) and ecosystem N pools among 77 lodgepole pine stands that varied in age and density. Inorganic N availability ranged from 0.07 to 3.20 Nbag d and nitrate $(No_3^ - )$ was, on average, 65% of total resin-sorbed N. Total ecosystem N stocks (live + detrital + soil) averaged 109.9  3.0 g N m(range = 63.7-185.8 g N mm ).Live N was 14%, detrital N was 29%, and soil N was 57% of total stocks. Soil $(No_3^ - )$ , total ecosystem N, live N, and detrital N generally increased with stand age, but soil N stocks decreased. Models (AIC c ) to predict soil N availability and N stocks included soil P, soil Ca, bulk density, and pH in addition to age (adj R ranged from 0.18 to 0.53) and density was included only for live N stocks.Patterns of N stocks and N availability with density were strongest for young stands (< 20 years) regenerating from extensive fire in 1988; for example, litterfall N stocks increased with density (adj R = 0.86, p < 0.001) but inorganic N availability declined (adj R = 0.47, p < 0.003). Across the complex Yellowstone landscape, we conclude that N stocks and N availability are best predicted by a combination of local soil characteristics in addition to factors that vary at landscape scales (stand density and age). Overall, total ecosystem N stocks were recovered quickly following standreplacing fire, suggesting that moderate increases in fire frequency will not affect long-term landscape N storage in Greater Yellowstone.
3658586|The concentration of CO
25470323|The flux of materials across ecosystem boundaries has significant effects on recipient systems. Because of edge effects, seasonal wetlands in upland forest are good systems to explore these linkages. The purpose of this study was to examine flux of coarse particulate organic matter as litter fall into seasonal wetlands in Minnesota, and the relationship of this flux to development of mosquitoes (Aedes aegypti). We hypothesized that litter flux into seasonal wetlands was dominated by upland plant litter that was lower quality and slower to breakdown than wetland litter, and that development rate of mosquitoes reared on upland litter was less than those reared on wetland litter. Of total litter fall into the wetlands, 71% originated in upland forest. Carbon to nitrogen ratios differed between upland litter (mostly sugar maple (Acer saccharum) and trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) leaves) and wetland litter (mostly black ash (Fraxinus nirgra) leaves), averaging 63.9 and 47.7, respectively over two years. Breakdown rate of black ash leaves was faster than upland leaves (k (day) = 0.00329 and 0.00156, respectively), based on the average between wetland margins and centers. Development of mosquito larvae fed black ash leaves was faster than larvae fed upland leaves. Our results demonstrate linkages between upland forests and seasonal wetlands through litter fall. The abundance of upland litter in the wetlands may influence litter breakdown and carbon assimilation by invertebrates. Wetlands receiving high amounts of upland versus wetland litter may be lower quality habitats for invertebrates that depend on detrital pools for their development.
25053802|Large disturbances such as the 1988 Yellowstone fires produce considerable spatial heterogeneity in ecosystem processes across landscapes, in part by affecting vegetation structure. However, the persistence of this heterogeneity with time since disturbance, and thus the role of large disturbances in shaping the heterogeneity of ecosystem processes over large spatial and temporal scales, remains unclear. Such an inquiry requires that variability as well as mean conditions of forest structure and growth be examined if changes are to be projected for heterogeneous postdisturbance landscapes. We studied a chronosequence of unburned, mature lodgepole pine stands (stand ages ranging from 50 to 300 or more years) to examine the variability in stand density, leaf-area index (LAI), and stem growth [basal area increment (BAI), a surrogate for aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP)] with stand age, the relationships between these factors, and how these factors were related to stand and site characteristics. Variation in LAI and BAI was explained primarily by differences in stand density and age (
41505925|Although high elevation meadows are often considered to be primarily temperature-limited, aboveground net primary production (ANPP) is influenced by both growing season length (GSL) and soil moisture (SM). Progress in understanding these responses comes from studies at individual sites that are often focused on single abiotic drivers, so little is known about how climatic constraints relate to one another and limit ANPP at larger scales. We examined the independent and combined effects of these two key climate drivers (GSL and SM) across a suite of high elevation meadows from two continents. We also sampled gradients of each variable at a single site to explore mechanisms for SM and GSL limitations. Here, we show that high elevation meadows are limited by both GSL and SM levels. GSL constrained maximum ANPP by approximately 4 g m d whereas average daily ANPP beneath this constraint was significantly influenced by SM. Carbon isotope and plant/soil nitrogen data suggest that SM influenced ANPP through its impact on nitrogen availability. Increases in GSL can increase ANPP unless those increases are accompanied by SM decreases. These interactive effects can produce distinct ecological patterns and must be considered when predicting high elevation meadow responses to future climate changes.
3658909| The Antarctic dry valleys of southern Victoria Land are extreme desert environments where abiotic factors, such as temperature gradients, parent material, and soil water dynamics, may have a significant influence on soil carbon dioxide ( CO
25470407|Phototrophic primary production is a fundamental ecosystem process, and it is ultimately constrained by access to limiting nutrients. Whereas most research on nutrient limitation of lacustrine phytoplankton has focused on phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) limitation, there is growing evidence that iron (Fe) limitation may be more common than previously acknowledged. Here we show that P was the nutrient that stimulated phytoplankton primary production most strongly in seven out of nine bioassay experiments with natural lake water from oligotrophic clearwater lakes. However, Fe put constraints on phytoplankton production in eight lakes. In one of these lakes, Fe was the nutrient that stimulated primary production most, and concurrent P and Fe limitation was observed in seven lakes. The effect of Fe addition increased with decreasing lake water concentrations of total phosphorus and dissolved organic matter. Possible mechanisms are low import rates and low bioavailability of Fe in the absence of organic chelators. The experimental results were used to predict the relative strength of Fe, N, and P limitation in 659 oligotrophic clearwater lakes (with total phosphorus  0.2 M P and total organic carbon < 6 mg C l) from a national lake survey. Fe was predicted to have a positive effect in 88% of these lakes, and to be the nutrient with the strongest effect in 30% of the lakes. In conclusion, Fe, along with P and N, is an important factor constraining primary production in oligotrophic clearwater lakes, which is a common lake-type throughout the northern biomes.
40603636|Emulation of natural disturbance processes and their effects is important to maintain the structure and composition of managed forests. To examine whether logging and fire have different effects on natural regeneration, we studied the recruitment of six common boreal tree species (Populus tremuloides, Betula papyrifera, Pinus banksiana, Picea mariana, Picea glauca, and Abies balsamea) after fire and clearcutting in northern Ontario. Regeneration densities of all studied species, except P. glauca and A. balsamea, were positively related to their respective pre-disturbance basal area. Post-disturbance regeneration densities of P. tremuloides and P.banksiana did not differ between disturbance types, whereas those of B. papyrifera were higher after fire, and those of P. mariana and A. balsamea were higher after clearcutting. Among tree species, the composition of P. tremuloides increased by approximately 35% after both disturbance types, that of B.papyrifera increased by 22% after fire and 11 % after clearcutting, whereas those of P. banksiana, P. mariana, P. glauca, and A. balsamea decreased to various extents. Compared with fire, clearcutting significantly increased the post-disturbance presence of A. balsamea, which is attributed to surviving advance regeneration after logging. The natural regeneration process after fire appears to be emulated by clearcutting for P. tremuloides, P. banksiana, P. mariana, and P. glauca, but the increase in B.papyrifera after clearcutting is less pronounced than after fire, whereas the reduction of A. balsamea after clearcutting is less severe than after fire.
41413047|We used data collected from 1989 to 2009 from 151 shallow (mean depth < 3 m) temperate lakes in Denmark to explore the influence of lake trophic status, surface area and catchment size on the seasonal dynamics of the air-water flux of CO. Monthly CO fluxes were derived from measurements of acid neutralizing capacity (ANC), pH, ionic strength, temperature, and wind speed. CO fluxes exhibited large seasonal variability, in particular in oligo-mesotrophic lakes. Most of the lakes emitted CO during winter (median rates ranging 300-1,900 mg C m day), and less CO during summer or, in the case of some of the highly eutrophic lakes, retained CO during summer. We found that seasonal CO fluxes were strongly negatively correlated with pH (r =  0.65, P < 0.01), which in turn was correlated with chlorophyll a concentrations (r = 0.48, P < 0.01). Our analysis suggests that lake trophic status (a proxy for pelagic production) interacts with the lake ANC to drive the seasonal dynamics of CO fluxes, largely by changing pH and thereby the equilibrium of the free CO and bicarbonate relation. Long-term observations from four lakes, which have all undergone a period of oligotrophication during the past two decades, provide further evidence that CO efflux generally increases as trophic status decreases, as a consequence of decreased pH. Across these four lakes, the annual average CO emission has increased by 32% during the past two decades, thus, demonstrating the strong link between lake trophic status and CO flux.
40603436|Rivers link oceans with the land, creating global hot spots of carbon processing in coastal seas. Coastlines around the world are dominated by sandy beaches, but beaches are unusual in that they are thought to rely almost exclusively on marine imports for food. No significant connections to terrestrial production having been demonstrated. By contrast, we isotopically traced carbon and nitrogen pathways leading to clams (Donax deltoides) on beaches. Clams from areas influenced by river plumes had significantly different isotope signatures (C: 18.5 to 20.2; N: 8.310.0) compared with clams remote from plumes (C: 17.5 to 19.5; N: 7.68.7), showing that terrestrial carbon and sewage, both delivered in river plumes, penetrate beach food webs. This is a novel mechanism of trophic subsidy in marine intertidal systems, linking the world's largest shore ecosystem to continental watersheds. The same clams also carry pollution signatures of sewage discharged into rivers, demonstrating that coastal rivers connect ecosystems in unexpected ways and transfer contaminants across the land-ocean boundary. The links we demonstrate between terrigenous matter and the largest of all marine intertidal ecosystems are significant given the immense social, cultural, and economic values of beaches to humans and the predicted consequences of altered river discharge to coastal seas caused by global climate change.
40296358|Environmental factors, including the supply of organic matter and inorganic nutrient concentrations, are thought to influence rates of two opposing processes in the nitrogen (N) cycle, denitrification and N fixation. Using sediment cores from a temperate estuary we examined the effects of nitrate, phosphate, and ammonium enrichment of the overlying water on the net N flux across the sediment-water interface. In addition, we used sediment cores and large marine mesocosms to determine the effect of organic matter amendment. The addition of nitrate (50 M), ammonium (50 M), and phosphate (10 M) to the overlying water had no effect on the net N flux. However, high ammonium fluxes (145 jimol m h) were observed in the nitrate-amended cores, which is suggestive of dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium. Organic matter enrichment first increased rates of N fixation, but ultimately switched the sediments from being a net source (N fixation dominated) to a net sink (denitrification dominated) of N. We observed a threshold where N fixation took place when organic matter deposition fell below about 0.3 g C m day. On the basis of these results and the findings of others, we developed a conceptual model that links net sediment N flux with the organic matter production of a system.
43677514|Animals can modify their environment by consumptive and physical activities such as herbivory and soil disturbance. Engineering species may create structures that long outlive them and have lasting impacts on local communities of plants and animals. Water voles, Arvicola amphibious, are rodents that visibly impact riparian plant communities by grazing on surface and root vegetation and excavating long-lasting burrow systems. This species has a metapopulation structure and occurs across patches which are subject to frequent extinction and colonization events, causing spatially heterogeneous disturbances across the landscape. Using a chronosequence of water vole occupancy in the Highlands of Scotland, we show that heterogeneity in plant community composition and structureboth within and between colony patcheswas related to cumulative measures of past physical impact: burrow density and time since a patch was last occupied by voles, rather than to current indices of vole occupancy. In our sample of 107 patches monitored over 5 years, no fewer than 31 unique patch occupancy histories were found, each with potentially subtle differences in the accumulated influence of water vole herbivory and engineering. As a result, a patchwork of different plant successional stages occurs across the riparian landscape which is both created and maintained by water vole extinction-colonization dynamics. We propose that the water vole-vegetation system can be described as a metacommunity where dispersal by a higher tropic agent at the landscape scale influences the spatial dynamics of plants at the patch level.
3659071|Permafrost patterning in boreal peatlands contributes to landscape heterogeneity, as peat plateaus, palsas, and localized permafrost mounds are interspersed among unfrozen bogs and fens. The degradation of localized permafrost in peatlands alters local topography, hydrology, thermal regimes, and plant communities, and creates unique peatland features called "internal lawns." I used laboratory incubations to quantify carbon dioxide ( CO
41507773|We examined chemical changes from leaf tissue to soil organic matter (SOM) to determine the persistence of plant chemistry into soil aggregate fractions. We characterized a slow (Dicranopteris linearis) and fast-decomposing species (Cheirodendron trigynum) and surface (O), and subsurface (A-horizon) SOM beneath each species using pyrolysis-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (py-GC/MS), with and without derivatization. The live tissues of Dicranopteris had greater lignin content whereas Cheirodendron had a greater lipid, N-bearing, and polysaccharide component. Despite this difference in leaf chemistry, SOM chemistry was similar between soil aggregate fractions, but different between horizons. The O-horizon contained primarily lignin and polysaccharide biomarkers whereas the A-horizon contained polysaccharide, aromatic, and N-derived compounds, indicating considerable microbial processing of plant litter. The soils beneath Cheirodendron inherited a greater lipid signal composed of cutin and suberin biomarkers whereas the soils beneath Dicranopteris contained greater aromatic biomarker content, possibly derived from plant lignins. The soils beneath both species were more similar to root polysaccharides, lipids, and lignins than aboveground tissue. This study indicates that although plant-derived OM is processed vigorously, speciesspecific biomarkers and compound class differences persist into these soils and that differences in plant chemical properties may influence soil development even after considerable reworking of plant litter by microorganisms.
3658683|To integrate multiple uses (mature forest and commodity production) better on forested lands, timber management strategies that cluster harvests have been proposed. One such approach clusters harvest activity in space and time, and rotates timber production zones across the landscape with a long temporal period (dynamic zoning). Dynamic zoning has been shown to increase timber production and reduce forest fragmentation by segregating uses in time without reducing the spatial extent of timber production. It is reasonable to wonder what the effect of periodic interruptions in the implementation of such as strategy might be, as would be expected in a dynamic political environment. To answer these questions, I used a timber harvest simulation model (HARVEST) to simulate a dynamic zoning harvest strategy that was periodically interrupted by changes in the spatial dispersion of harvests, by changes in timber production levels, or both. The temporal scale (period) of these interruptions had impacts related to the rate at which the forest achieved canopy closure after harvest. Spatial dynamics in harvest policies had a greater effect on the amount of forest interior and edge than did dynamics in harvest intensity. The periodically clustered scenarios always produced greater amounts of forest interior and less forest edge than did their never clustered counterparts. The results suggest that clustering of harvests produces less forest fragmentation than dispersed cutting alternatives, even in the face of a dynamic policy future. Although periodic episodes of dispersed cutting increased fragmentation, average and maximum fragmentation measures were less than if clustered harvest strategies were never implemented. Clustering may also be useful to mitigate the fragmentation effects of socially mandated increases in timber harvest levels. Implementation of spatial clustering during periods of high timber harvest rates reduced the variation in forest interior and edge through time, providing a more stable supply of forest interior habitat across the landscape.
25470431|Since the domestication of plant and animal species around 10,000 years ago, cultivation and animal husbandry have been major components of global change. Agricultural activities such as tillage, fertilization, and biomass alteration lead to fundamental changes in the pools and fluxes of carbon (C), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) that originally existed in native ecosystems. Land is often taken out of agricultural production for economic, social, or biological reasons, and the ability to predict the biogeochemical trajectory of this land is important to our understanding of ecosystem development and our projections of food security for the future. Tillage generally decreases soil organic matter (SOM) due to erosion and disruption of the physical, biochemical, and chemical mechanisms of SOM stabilization, but SOM can generally reaccumulate after the cessation of cultivation. The use of organic amendments causes increases in SOM on agricultural fields that can last for centuries to millennia after the termination of applications, although the locations that provide the organic amendments are concurrently depleted. The legacy of agriculture is therefore highly variable on decadal to millennial time scales and depends on the specific management practices that are followed during the agricultural period. State factors such as climate and parent material (particularly clay content and mineralogy) modify ecosystem processes such that they may be useful predictors of rates of postagricultural biogeochemical change. In addition to accurate biogeochemical budgets of postagricultural systems, ecosystem models that more explicitly incorporate mechanisms of SOM loss and formation with agricultural practices will be helpful. Developing this predictive capacity will aid in ecological restoration efforts and improve the management of modern agroecosystems as demands on agriculture become more pressing.
25470389|The cold deserts of the Colorado Plateau contain numerous geologically and geochemically distinct sedimentary bedrock types. In the area near Canyonlands National Park in Southeastern Utah, geochemical variation in geologic substrates is related to the depositional environment with higher concentrations of Fe, Al, P, K, and Mg in sediments deposited in alluvial or marine environments and lower concentrations in bedrock derived from eolian sand dunes. Availability of soil nutrients to vegetation is also controlled by the formation of secondary minerals, particularly for P and Ca availability, which, in some geologic settings, appears closely related to variation of CaCO and Caphosphates in soils. However, the results of this study also indicate that P content is related to bedrock and soil Fe and Al content suggesting that the deposition history of the bedrock and the presence of P-bearing Fe and Al minerals, is important to contemporary P cycling in this region. The relation between bedrock type and exchangeable Mg and K is less clear-cut, despite large variation in bedrock concentrations of these elements. We examined soil nutrient concentrations and foliar nutrient concentration of grasses, shrubs, conifers, and forbs in four geochemically distinct field sites. All four of the functional plant groups had similar proportional responses to variation in soil nutrient availability despite large absolute differences in foliar nutrient concentrations and stoichiometry across species. Foliar P concentration (normalized to N) in particular showed relatively small variation across different geochemical settings despite large variation in soil P availability in these study sites. The limited foliar variation in bedrock-derived nutrients suggests that the dominant plant species in this dryland setting have a remarkably strong capacity to maintain foliar chemistry ratios despite large underlying differences in soil nutrient availability.
41507788|Watershed 1 (W1) at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire, with chronically low pH and acid neutralizing capacity (ANC) in surface water, was experimentally treated with calcium silicate (CaSiO; wollastonite) in October 1999 to assess the role of calcium (Ca) supply in the structure and function of base-poor forest ecosystems. Wollastonite addition significantly increased the concentrations and fluxes of Ca, dissolved silica (Si), and ANC and decreased the concentrations and fluxes of inorganic monomeric Al (Al i ) and hydrogen ion (H) in both soil solution and stream water in all sub-watersheds of W1. Mass balances indicate that 54% of the added Ca remained undissolved or was retained by vegetation during the first 6 years after treatment. Of the remaining added Ca, 44% was retained on O horizon cation exchange sites. The Ca:Si ratio in the dissolution products was greater than 2.0, more than twice the molar ratio in the applied wollastonite. This suggests that Ca was preferentially leached from the applied wollastonite and/or Si was immobilized by secondary mineral formation. Approximately 2% of the added Ca and 7% of the added Si were exported from W1 in stream water in the first 6 years after treatment. Watershed-scale Ca amendment with wollastonite appears to be an effective approach to mitigating effects of acidic deposition. Not only does it appear to alleviate acidification stress to forest vegetation, but it also provides for the longterm supply of ANC to acid-impacted rivers and lakes downstream.
23501483|Eelgrass beds provide valuable refuge, foraging, and spawning habitat for many marine species, including valued species such as Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.), Pacific herring (Clupea pallasi), and Dungeness crab (Metacarcinus magister). We used dynamic simulations in a food web model of central Puget Sound, Washington, USA developed in the Ecopath with Ecosim software, to examine how the marine community may respond to changes in coverage of native eelgrass (Zostera marina), and how these modeled responses can be assessed using an ecosystem services framework, expressing these services with economic currencies in some cases and biological proxies in others. Increased eelgrass coverage was most associated with increases in commercial and recreational fishing with some small decreases in one non-market activity, bird watching. When we considered ecosystem service categories that are aggregations of individual groups of species, we saw little evidence of strong tradeoffs among marine resources; that is, increasing eelgrass coverage was essentially either positive or neutral for all services we examined, although we did not examine terrestrial activities (for example, land use) that affect eelgrass coverage. Within particular service categories, however, we found cases where the responses to changes in eelgrass of individual groups of species that provide the same type of ecosystem service differed both in the magnitude and in the direction of change. This emphasizes the care that should be taken in combining multiple examples of a particular type of ecosystem service into an aggregate measure of that service.
43677518|Mean trophic level (MTL) is one of the most widely used indicators of marine ecosystem health. It usually represents the relative abundance of fished species across a spectrum of TLs. The reality, ubiquity, and causes of a general decline in the MTL of fisheries catch through time, and whether fisheries catch tracks ecosystem level changes, have engendered much attention. However, the consequences of such patterns for broader ecosystem structure and function remain virtually unexplored. Along the Pacific U.S. Coast, previous work has documented fluctuations and a slow increase in ecosystem MTL from 1977 to 2004. Here, we document a decline in the ecosystem MTL of groundfishes in the same ecosystem from 2003 to 2011, the proximate cause of which was a decrease in the biomass of higher TL groundfishes. Using a food web model, we illustrate how these shifts in ecosystem structure may have resulted in short term, positive responses by many lower TL species in the broader ecosystem. In the longer term, the model predicts that initial patterns of prey release may be tempered in part by lagged responses of other higher TL species, such as salmon and seabirds. Although ecosystem functions related to specific groups like piscivores (excluding high-TL groundfishes) changed, aggregate ecosystem functions altered little following the initial reorganization of biomass, probably due to functional redundancy within the predator guild. Efforts to manage and conserve marine ecosystems will benefit from a fuller consideration of the information content contained within, and implied by, fisheries-independent TL indicators.
23325690|At Booderee National Park, south-eastern Australia, the intensive control of the introduced red fox (Vulpes vulpes) resulted in a major increase in the abundance of a browsing macropod, the swamp wallaby (Wallabia bicolor). This has led to a major decrease in the abundance and biomass of a range of palatable plant species. Fox control has also started a trophic cascade that has resulted in a decline in the abundance of the greater glider (Petauroides volans) a folivorous arboreal marsupial, mediated either through increased predation by owls or increased competition with common brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula). We identified five potential scenarios for managing the effects of over-abundant swamp wallabies on the ecosystem as a whole. These were (1) the present scenario of continued intensive fox control and four possible scenarios to redress the problem: (2) ceasing fox control; (3) intensive fox control and intensive wallaby control; (4) introducing dingoes and ceasing fox control; and (5) introducing dingoes and maintaining fox control. We used an ecosystem modelling approach based on a fuzzy cognitive map (FCM) to predict relative estimates of abundance for each scenario for a wide range of taxa in the Booderee National Park ecosystem likely to be affected by each scenario. We addressed uncertainty in our knowledge of the interactions between species by creating alternative models of the system by removing one or more of the uncertain links between species and varying the strength of the remaining interactions in the FCM and aggregated predictions from 100,000 models to estimate the effect of uncertainty on the predictions from our FCM model. In comparison with the current scenario of intensive fox control, scenario 3 had the greatest likelihood of improving the status of palatable plants. Scenarios 2 and 4 reduced the abundance of a range of medium-sized mammals but improved the status of greater gliders, whereas the predicted effects of scenario 5 were uncertain. The FCM modelling approach developed here provided a valuable tool for managers to learn about the potential ecosystem wide effects of management actions while incorporating the likely effects of uncertain knowledge on system outcomes.
27823739|We studied the influence of tree species on soil carbon and nitrogen (N) dynamics in a common garden of replicated monocultures of fourteen angiosperm and gymnosperm, broadleaf and needleleaf species in southwestern Poland. We hypothesized that species would influence soil organic matter (SOM) decomposition primarily via effects on biogeochemical recalcitrance, with species having tissues with high lignin concentrations retarding rates of decomposition in the O and A horizons. Additionally, because prior work demonstrated substantial divergence in foliar and soil base cation concentrations and soil pH among species, we hypothesized that species would influence chemical stabilization of SOM via cation bridging to mineral surfaces in the A-horizon. Our hypotheses were only partially supported: SOM decomposition and microbial biomass were unrelated to plant tissue lignin concentrations, but in the mineral horizon, were significantly negatively related to the percentage of the cation exchange complex (CEC) occupied by polyvalent acidic (hydrolyzing) cations (Al and Fe), likely because these cations stabilize SOM via cation bridging and flocculation and/or because of inhibitory effects of Al or low pH on decomposers. Percent CEC occupied by exchangeable Al and Fe was in turn related to both soil clay content (a parent material characteristic) and root Ca concentrations (a species characteristic). In contrast, species influenced soil N dynamics largely via variation in tissue N concentration. In both laboratory and in situ assays, species having high-N roots exhibited faster rates of net N mineralization and nitrification. Nitrification:mineralization ratios were greater, though, under species with high exchangeable soil Ca2+. Our results indicate that tree species contribute to variation in SOM dynamics, even in the mineral soil horizons. To our knowledge the influence of tree species on SOM decomposition via cation biogeochemistry has not been demonstrated previously, but could be important in other poorly buffered systems dominated by tree species that differ in cation nutrition or that are influenced by acidic deposition.
41505893|Nitrous oxide (NO) emissions from grazed grasslands are estimated to be approximately 28% of global anthropogenic NO emissions. Estimating the NO flux from grassland soils is difficult because of its episodic nature. This study aimed to quantify the NO emissions, the annual NO flux and the emission factor (EF), and also to investigate the influence of environmental and soil variables controlling NO emissions from grazed grassland. Nitrous oxide emissions were measured using static chambers at eight different grasslands in the South of Ireland from September 2007 to August 2009. The instantaneous NO flux values ranged from -186 to 885.6 g NO-N m h and the annual sum ranged from 2  3.51 to 12.55  2.83 kg NO-N ha y for managed sites. The emission factor ranged from 1.3 to 3.4%. The overall EF of 1.81% is about 69% higher than the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) default EF value of 1.25% which is currently used by the Irish Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to estimate NO emission in Ireland. At an N applied of approximately 300 kg ha y, the NO emissions are approximately 5.0 kg NO-N ha y, whereas the NO emissions double to approximately 10 kg N ha for an N applied of 400 kg N ha y. The sites with higher fluxes were associated with intensive N-input and frequent cattle grazing. The NO flux at 17C was five times greater than that at 5C. Similarly, the NO emissions increased with increasing water filled pore space (WFPS) with maximum NO emissions occurring at 60-80% WFPS. We conclude that N application below 300 kg ha y and restricted grazing on seasonally wet soils will reduce NO emissions.
3658678|Complex adaptive systems play a major role in the theory of reciprocal altruism. Starting with Axelrod's celebrated computer tournaments, a wide variety of computer simulations show that cooperation can evolve in populations of selfish agents, both with direct and indirect reciprocation.
40296412|Fuelwood extracted from natural forests serves as a principal energy source in rural regions of many tropical countries. Although fuelwood extraction (even low intensities) might strongly impact the structure and species composition of natural forests, long-term studies remain scarce. Here, we estimate the potential long-term impacts (over several hundred years) of such repeated harvesting of single trees on tropical montane cloud forest in central Veracruz, Mexico, by applying a processbased forest growth model. We simulate a wide range of possible harvesting scenarios differing in wood volume harvested and preferred tree species and sizes, and use a set of indicators to compare their impacts on forest size structure and community composition. Results showed that the overall impact on forest structure and community composition increased linearly with the amount of harvested wood volume. Even at low levels of harvesting, forest size structure became more homogeneous in the long term because large old trees disappeared from the forest, but these changes might take decades or even centuries. Although recruitment of harvested species benefited from harvesting, species composition shifted to tree species that are not used for fuelwood. Our results demonstrate that fuelwood extraction can have marked long-term impacts on tropical montane cloud forests. The results also offer the possibility to support the design of management strategies for the natural species-rich forests that achieve a balance between economic needs and ecological goals of the stakeholders.
27823745|Residential development of lakeshores affects the structure and function of riparian and littoral habitats. Organic detritus in sediments is a critical component of littoral food webs, but the effects of urbanization on sediment characteristics are unexplored. We characterized the quantity of organic sediments in Pacific Northwest lakes along a development gradient and found a 10-fold decline in the proportion of detritus in littoral sediments associated with density of lakeshore dwellings. In a comparison between two fully developed lakes and two undeveloped reference lakes, we examined several possible controls on sedimentary organic content, including terrestrial inputs, decomposition rates and associated macroinvertebrate communities, and physical retention by coarse wood. The littoral sediments of undeveloped lakes ranged from 34 to 77% organic by mass, whereas the range on urban lakes was an order of magnitude less, ranging from 1 to 3% organic. We found no significant differences in terrestrial litter inputs between the two sets of lakes. Leaf litter decomposition rates did not vary significantly between the two sets of lakes, and we found higher densities of shredder macroinvertebrate taxa in the littoral zones of undeveloped lakes. Sedimentary organic matter on undeveloped lakes accumulated in shallow waters and declined with distance from shore, whereas the opposite pattern existed on urban lakes. Our results suggest that coarse wood physically retains organic matter in littoral zones where it can enter the detrital energy pathway, and the loss of this feature on urban lakes alters littoral sediment characteristics, with potentially far-reaching consequences for lake food webs.
3658948|We measured the concentrations and isotopic values (
23325683|The composition of plant communities everywhere now likely comprises alien as well as native species, and those aliens that become invasive have wide-ranging impacts on the structure and function of recipient ecosystems. These impacts include perturbations to soil carbon (C) cycling, but the direction and magnitude of impacts are species and climate dependent, making it difficult to generalize whether a specific invader will promote losses or gains in soil C stocks. Generalizations of a specific invader's impacts are necessary; however, because the range of an invader can encompass thousands of square kilometers, meaning their effects can have broad, regional consequences. To quantify broad-scale and context-dependent impacts of a specific invader, multi-site investigations that capture and measure local and regional environmental heterogeneity are necessary. Using this approach, we show that a widespread grass invader of forest understories is associated with declines in soil C during infilling (spreading within the invaded range). Across the 36 study sites, total soil C stocks declined (P = 0.113) by approximately 12% (estimated mean  SD, uninvaded: 2,429  512.9 vs. invaded: 2,140  520.7 g C m -2 ). The decline in total soil C is driven by a significant (P = 0.047) reduction in the native-derived, mineral-associated soil C fraction. This fraction, whose mass and slow turnover makes it an important C store, is approximately 15% lower in invaded (estimated mean  SD: 1,560  400.4 g C m -2 ) than uninvaded plots (1,826  398.1 g C m -2 ). Notably, declines in this C fraction are only apparent at 21 of the sites, reflecting how environmental heterogeneity in other variables (specifically pH, soil moisture, and clay content) are important to quantify to determine invader impacts across a region. The 26% decline in microbial biomass with invasion (P = 0.011; estimated mean  SD, uninvaded: 10.05  1.79 vs. invaded: 7.40  1.80 g C m -2 ) is also dependent on site characteristics (pH), and reductions are greater where the invader occurs at higher densities. Reductions in microbial biomass and soil C with invasion suggest that grass invasion will alter soil C cycling and decrease forest-C stores across the study region, although invader effects at a specific-site will be dependent on environmental context.
3658995|The Sahara and Sahel regions of northern Africa have complex environmental histories punctuated by sudden and dramatic "regime shifts" in climate and ecological conditions. Here we review the current understanding of the causes and consequences of two environmental regime shifts in the Sahara and Sahel. The first regime shift is the sudden transition from vegetated to desert conditions in the Sahara about 5500 years ago. Geologic data show that wet environmental conditions in this region-giving rise to extensive vegetation, lakes, and wet-lands-came to an abrupt end about 5500 years ago. Explanations for climatic changes in northern Africa during the Holocene have suggested that millennial-scale changes in the Earth's orbit could have caused the wet conditions that prevailed in the early Holocene and the dry conditions prevalent today. However, the orbital hypothesis, by itself, does not explain the sudden regime shift 5500 years ago. Several modeling studies have proposed that strong, nonlinear feedbacks between vegetation and the atmosphere could amplify the effects of orbital variations and create two alternative stable states (or "regimes") in the climate and ecosystems of the Sahara: a "green Sahara" and a "desert Sahara." A recent coupled atmosphere-ocean-land model confirmed that there was a sudden shift from the "green Sahara" to the "desert Sahara" regime approximately 5500 years ago. The second regime shift is the onset of a major 30-year drought over the Sahel around 1969. Several lines of evidence have suggested that the interactions between atmosphere and vegetation act to reinforce either a "wet Sahel" or a "dry Sahel" climatic regime, which may persist for decades at a time. Recent modeling studies have indicated that the shift from a "wet Sahel" to a "dry Sahel" regime was caused by strong feedbacks between the climate and vegetation cover and may have been triggered by slow changes in either land degradation or sea-surface temperatures. Taken together, we conclude that the existence of alternative stable states (or regimes) in the climate and ecosystems of the Sahara and Sahel may be the result of strong, nonlinear interactions between vegetation and the atmosphere. Although the shifts between these regimes occur rapidly, they are made possible by slow, subtle changes in underlying environmental conditions, including slow changes in incoming solar radiation, sea-surface temperatures, or the degree of land degradation.
3658801|There have been several earlier studies that addressed the influence of natural disturbance regimes on coral reefs. Humans alter natural disturbance regimes, introduce new stressors, and modify background conditions of reefs. We focus on how coral reef ecosystems relate to disturbance in an increasingly human-dominated environment. The concept of ecosystem resilience-that is, the capacity of complex systems with multiple stable states to absorb disturbance, reorganize, and adapt to change-is central in this context. Instead of focusing on the recovery of certain species and populations within disturbed sites of individual reefs, we address spatial resilience-that is, the dynamic capacity of a reef matrix to reorganize and maintain ecosystem function following disturbance. The interplay between disturbance and ecosystem resilience is highlighted. We begin the identification of spatial sources of resilience in dynamic seascapes and exemplify and discuss the relation between "ecological memory" (biological legacies, mobile link species, and support areas) and functional diversity for seascape resilience. Managing for resilience in dynamic seascapes not only enhances the likelihood of conserving coral reefs, it also provides insurance to society by sustaining essential ecosystem services.
3658869| Nitrate produced by bacterially mediated nitrification in soils is isotopically distinct from atmospheric nitrate in precipitation.
40296271|Herbivory can change the structure and spatial heterogeneity of vegetation. We ask whether all species of grazers in a savanna ecosystem can have this effect or whether megaherbivores (> 1000 kg) have a 'special' role that cannot be replicated by other species of grazers. We performed a replicated landscape scale experiment that examined the effects of White Rhino on the grass sward, on other species of grazing mammals and on the movement of fire through the landscape. White Rhino maintained short grass ('lawn') patches in mesic areas (~ 750 mm pa) with increases in grass sward height when they were removed. Other species of grazers were unable to maintain short grass communities when White Rhino were removed. In semi-arid areas (~600 mm pa) other, smaller grazers were able to maintain short grass communities in the absence of White Rhino and sward height did not increase. White Rhino removals affected fire by increasing fuel loads and fuel continuity. This resulted in larger, less patchy fires. We propose that the White Rhino acts as an influential ecosystem engineer, creating and maintaining short grass swards, which alter habitat for other grazers and change the fire regime. These results indicate the existence of context-dependent facilitation between White Rhino and other grazers in mesic, but not in semi-arid, savannas. Such top down effects on the ecosystem may have been much more widespread before the extinction of large grazers in the Pleistocene.
3658806|Permafrost thaw resulting from climate warming may dramatically change the succession and carbon dynamics of northern ecosystems. To examine the joint effects of regional temperature and local species changes on peat accumulation following thaw, we studied peat accumulation across a regional gradient of mean annual temperature (MAT). We measured aboveground net primary production (AGNPP) and decomposition over 2 years for major functional groups and used these data to calculate a simple index of net annual aboveground peat accumulation. In addition, we collected cores from six adjacent frozen and thawed bog sites to document peat accumulation changes following thaw over the past 200 years. Aboveground biomass and decomposition were more strongly controlled by local succession than regional climate. AGNPP for some species differed between collapse scars and associated permafrost plateaus and was influenced by regional MAT. A few species, such as Picea mariana trees on frozen bogs and Sphagnum mosses in thawed bogs, sequestered a disproportionate amount of peat; in addition, changes in their abundance following thaw changed peat accumulation.
41505956|Soil respiration from grasslands plays a critical role in determining carbon dioxide (CO) feedbacks between soils and the atmosphere. In these often mesic systems, soil moisture and temperature tend to co-regulate soil respiration. Increasing variance of rainfall patterns may alter abovegroundbelowground interactions and have important implications for the sensitivity of soil respiration to fluctuations in moisture and temperature. We conducted a set of field experiments to evaluate the independent and interactive effects of rainfall variability and plantsoil processes on respiration dynamics. Plant removal had strong effects on grassland soils, which included altered CO flux owing to absence of root respiration; increased soil moisture and temperature; and reduced availability of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) for heterotrophic respiration by microorganisms. These plant-mediated effects interacted with our rainfall variability treatments to determine the sensitivity of soil respiration to both moisture and temperature. Using time-series multiple regression, we found that plants dampened the sensitivity of respiration to moisture under high variability rainfall treatments, which may reflect the relative stability of root contributions to total soil respiration. In contrast, plants increased the sensitivity of respiration to temperature under low variability rainfall treatment suggesting that the environmental controls on soil CO dynamics in mesic habitats may be context dependent. Our results provide insight into the aboveground-belowground mechanisms controlling respiration in grasslands under variable rainfall regimes, which may be important for predicting CO dynamics under current and future climate scenarios.
41505919|We bring together three decades of research from a boreal catchment to facilitate an improved mechanistic understanding of surface water dissolved organic carbon (DOC) regulation across multiple scales. The Krycklan Catchment Study encompasses 15 monitored nested research catchments, ranging from 3 to 6900 ha in size, as well as a set of monitored transects of forested and wetland soils. We show that in small homogenous catchments, hydrological functioning provides a first order control on the temporal variability of stream water DOC. In larger, more heterogeneous catchments, stream water DOC dynamics are regulated by the combined effect of hydrological mechanisms and the proportion of major landscape elements, such as wetland and forested areas. As a consequence, streams with heterogeneous catchments undergo a temporal switch in the DOC source. In a typical boreal catchment covered by 10-20% wetlands, DOC originates predominantly from wetland sources during low flow conditions. During high flow, the major source of DOC is from forested areas of the catchment. We demonstrate that by connecting knowledge about DOC sources in the landscape with detailed hydrological process understanding, an improved representation of stream water DOC regulation can be provided. The purpose of this study is to serve as a framework for appreciating the role of regulating mechanisms, connectivity and scaling for understanding the pattern and dynamics of surface water DOC across complex landscapes. The results from this study suggest that the sensitivity of stream water DOC in the boreal landscape ultimately depends on changes within individual landscape elements, the proportion and connectivity of these affected landscape elements, and how these changes are propagated downstream.
41413973|A positive relationship between interannual sea level and plant growth is thought to stabilize many coastal landforms responding to accelerating rates of sea level rise. Numerical models of delta growth, tidal channel network evolution, and ecosystem resilience incorporate a hump-shaped relationship between inundation and plant primary production, where vegetation growth increases with sea level up to an optimum water depth or inundation frequency. In contrast, we use decade-long measurements of Spartina alterniflora biomass in seven coastal Virginia (USA) marshes to demonstrate that interannual sea level is rarely a primary determinant of vegetation growth. Although we find tepid support for a hump-shaped relationship between aboveground production and inundation when marshes of different elevation are considered, our results suggest that marshes high in the intertidal zone and low in relief are unresponsive to sea level fluctuations. We suggest existing models are unable to capture the behavior of wetlands in these portions of the landscape, and may underestimate their vulnerability to sea level rise because sea level rise will not be accompanied by enhanced plant growth and resultant sediment accumulation.
41505898|The Mer Bleue peatland is a large ombrotrophic bog with hummock-lawn microtopography, poor fen sections and beaver ponds at the margin. Average growing-season (May-October) fluxes of methane (CH) measured in 2002-2003 across the bog ranged from less than 5 mg m d in hummocks, to greater than 100 mg m d in lawns and ponds. The average position of the water table explained about half of the variation in the season average CH fluxes, similar to that observed in many other peatlands in Canada and elsewhere. The flux varied most when the water table position ranged between  15 and 40 cm. To better establish the factors that influence this variability, we measured CH flux at approximately weekly intervals from May to November for 5 years (2004-2008) at 12 collars representing the water table and vegetation variations typical of the peatland. Over the snow-free season, peat temperature is the dominant correlate and the difference among the collars' seasonal average CH flux is partially dependent on water table position. A third important correlate on CH flux is vegetation, particularly the presence of Eriophorum vaginatum, which increases CH flux, as well as differences in the potential of the peat profile to produce and consume CH under anaerobic and aerobic conditions. The combination of peat temperature and water table position with vegetation cover was able to explain approximately 44% of the variation in daily CH flux, based on 1097 individual measurements. There was considerable inter-annual variation in fluxes, associated with varying peat thermal and water table regimes in response to variations in weather, but also by variations in the water level in peripheral ponds, associated with beaver dam activity. Raised water level in the beaver ponds led to higher water tables and increased CH emission in the peatland.
23501296|Wildfires are a pervasive disturbance in boreal forests, and the frequency and intensity of boreal wildfires is expected to increase with climate warming. Boreal forests store a large fraction of global soil organic carbon (C), but relatively few studies have documented how wildfires affect soil microbial communities and soil C dynamics. We used a fire chronosequence in upland boreal forests of interior Alaska with sites that were 1, 7, 12, 24, 55, 90, and 100 years post-fire to examine the short- and long-term responses of fungal community composition, fungal abundance, extracellular enzyme activity, and litter decomposition to wildfires. We hypothesized that post-fire changes in fungal abundance and community composition would constrain decomposition following fires. We found that wildfires altered the composition of soil fungal communities. The relative abundance of ascomycetes significantly increased following fire whereas basidiomycetes decreased. Post-fire decreases in basidiomycete fungi were likely attributable to declines in ectomycorrhizal fungi. Fungal hyphal lengths in the organic horizon significantly declined in response to wildfire, and they required at least 24 years to return to pre-fire levels. Post-fire reductions in fungal hyphal length were associated with decreased activities of hydrolytic extracellular enzymes. In support of our hypothesis, the decomposition rate of aspen and black spruce litter significantly increased as forests recovered from fire. Our results indicate that post-fire reductions in soil fungal abundance and activity likely inhibit litter decomposition following boreal wildfires. Slower rates of litter decay may lead to decreased heterotrophic respiration from soil following fires and contribute to a negative feedback to climate warming.
27823750|Most experimental additions of nitrogen to forest ecosystems apply the N to the forest floor, bypassing important processes taking place in the canopy, including canopy retention of N and/or conversion of N from one form to another. To quantify these processes, we carried out a large-scale experiment and determined the fate of nitrogen applied directly to a mature coniferous forest canopy in central Maine (1820 kg N ha1 y1 as NH4NO3 applied as a mist using a helicopter). In 2003 and 2004 we measured NO3, NH4+, and total dissolved N (TDN) in canopy throughfall (TF) and stemflow (SF) events after each of two growing season applications. Dissolved organic N (DON) was greater than 80% of the TDN under ambient inputs; however NO3 accounted for more than 50% of TF N in the treated plots, followed by NH4+ (35%) and DON (15%). Although NO3 was slightly more efficiently retained by the canopy under ambient inputs, canopy retention of NH4+ as a percent of inputs increased markedly under fertilization. Recovery of less than 30% of the fertilizer N in TF suggested that the forest canopy retained more than 70% of the applied N (>80% when corrected for N which bypassed tree surfaces at the time of fertilizer addition). Results from plots receiving 15N enriched NO3 and NH4+ confirmed bulk N estimations that more NO3 than NH4+ was washed from the canopy by wet deposition. The isotope data did not show evidence of canopy nitrification, as has been reported in other spruce forests receiving much higher N inputs. Conversions of fertilizer-N to DON were observed in TF for both 15NH4+ and 15NO3 additions, and occurred within days of the application. Subsequent rain events were not significantly enriched in 15N, suggesting that canopy DON formation was a rapid process related to recent N inputs to the canopy. We speculate that DON may arise from lichen and/or microbial N cycling rather than assimilation and re-release by tree tissues in this forest. Canopy retention of experimentally added N may meet and exceed calculated annual forest tree demand, although we do not know what fraction of retained N was actually physiologically assimilated by the plants. The observed retention and transformation of DIN within the canopy demonstrate that the fate and ecosystem consequences of N inputs from atmospheric deposition are likely influenced by forest canopy processes, which should be considered in N addition studies.
40296328|We quantified sedimentation of organic carbon in 12 Swedish small boreal lakes (< 0.48 km), which ranged in dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from 4.4 to 21.4 mg Cl. Stable isotope analysis suggests that most of the settling organic matter is of allochthonous origin. Annual sedimentation of allochthonous matter per m lake area was correlated to DOC concentration in the water (R = 0.41), and the relationship was improved when sedimentation data were normalized to water depth (R = 0.58). The net efflux of C as CO from the water to the atmosphere was likewise correlated to DOC concentration (R = 0.52). The losses of organic carbon from the water column via mineralization to CO and via sedimentation were approximately of equal importance throughout the year. Our results imply that DOC is a precursor of the settling matter, resulting in an important pathway in the carbon cycle of boreal lakes. Thus, flocculation of DOC of terrestrial origin and subsequent sedimentation could lead to carbon sequestration by burial in lake sediments.
25470330|Despite recent advances in resolving the scale issue, it remains problematic that so many ecological field studies are still conducted only at small scales because of the constraints imposed by limited resources. To maximize the use of these data, it would be helpful if the researchers could provide guidelines for the appropriate range and scale for the extrapolation of the data and identify the new information that would be needed to extend the scope of their extrapolation. In this paper, we present a method that can be used to detect scale thresholds for the extrapolation of field data through spatial analyses of the physical landscape, using the Fushan Forest, Taiwan, as an example. First, the relationship between the vegetation and the physical landscape was inferred from sample-plot data; this information was in turn used to extrapolate the data over the whole forest area. We then compared the environmental variables in the sample plots versus those in the whole forest area via principal component analysis, landscape classification, and spatial autocorrelation analysis. Analyses of the entire Fushan Forest area showed that there are at least three major spatial scales at which physical gradients are expressed: elevation at the scale of the full forest extent (more than 3,000 m), topographic position at 550 m, and aspect at 250 m. Analyses of the sample plots showed that the plots captured only two of these gradients-topographic position and aspect, but not elevation. Therefore, information from the current field data can only be extrapolated to within 550 m from the sample plots; further information derived from cross-elevation samples is needed to extrapolate beyond that range.
27823703|Many forest ecosystems have been extensively degraded by acidifying pollutants over the last decades. There is also widespread concern about population decline of a number of songbirds due to acidification-driven calcium limitation. We hypothesize that the carrying capacity of forests decreases with reduced soil calcium content. We analyzed songbird assemblage/habitat relationships by territory mapping at 30 sites in a total of five managed beech forests. The sites harbored 38 songbird species. A canonical correspondence analysis showed that soil acidification, represented by soil calcium content, had a significant influence on the species assemblages of the 14 most frequent songbirds. The vertical complexity of the canopy additionally influenced the assemblages. Multiple regressions revealed that the density of the territories of song thrush (Turdus philomelos) and nuthatch (Sitta europaea) were positively correlated to calcium content. Blackbirds (Turdus merula) seemed to compensate for the negative effect of acidification by selecting breeding sites close to forest edges to forage in less acidified agricultural habitats. In contrast, the territorial density of robin (Erithacus rubecula), chaffinch (Phylloscopus collybita) and coal tit (Parus ater) increased with increasing soil acidification. Contrary to our hypothesis, the overall carrying capacity of songbird was not reduced in forests with acidified soils. However, the nesting success of song thrush and blackbird, as determined by the number of fledglings, was higher in the forest with the highest calcium content when compared to the forest with the lowest calcium content. We conclude that some species are severely affected by acidification, whereas others seem to have evolved successful strategies to meet their calcium demand even in acidified habitats.
3658957|I used a mesic to wet precipitation gradient on Maui, Hawaii, to test whether variation in rainfall regulates decomposition in tropical wet forest. Decomposition rates of leaves and roots from the dominant tree species, Metrosideros polymorpha, were measured at six sites similar in temperature regime, parent material, ecosystem age, vegetation, and topographical relief, whereas mean annual precipitation (MAP) at these six sites varied from 2200 to over 5000 mm/y. In situ decomposition rates of leaves placed on the soil surface declined by a factor of 6.4 with increased precipitation, whereas the decomposition rate of roots placed below ground declined by a factor of 2.3 across the gradient. Leaves collected from the 2200-mm site and placed at all sites on the gradient decomposed faster on the soil surface than they did below ground, whereas both above- and belowground decomposition rates of the common leaves decreased by a factor of 2.5 with increased precipitation. Of the environmental variables that changed with MAP, soil oxygen availability appeared to be the proximal factor that limited decomposition rates across the gradient, both above and below ground. When plant tissue collected from all sites across the gradient was decomposed at a common site, leaves from the wettest sites decomposed almost three times more slowly than leaves from the mesic sites. In contrast, roots from across the gradient all decomposed at a similar rate in a common site. Of tissue chemistry variables, high lignin concentration was correlated consistently with slow decomposition for roots and leaves. These results suggest that soil oxygen limitation combined with poorly decomposable leaves caused slower rates of decomposition and nutrient release with increased rainfall in these upland forests.
25470428|The present and future well-being of the world's forest dwelling populations depends on their ability to gain livelihood resources from their immediate environment. Sustainable extraction of non-timber forest products has been promoted by conservationists and development agencies as a feasible strategy for forest dwellers that does not compromise the resource base. Yet surveys of actual resource use suggest that for poorer resource-dependent communities without access to markets, non-timber forest products can only ever represent a safety-net activity and a supplementary income source. Others argue that resource availability, in terms of the diversity and productivity of the forest, is the key parameter in realizing a contribution of forest products to well-being. This paper examines the scope and heterogeneity of forest product use to reveal whether resource availability necessarily provides the context for significant contributions to well-being of forest dwellers. We present data from an area of tropical rainforest, close to Iquitos in Peru, which was previously shown to have high potential value. We find, through a census survey of households within a forest reserve area, that non-timber forest products provide only a relatively small portion of income and that only a small proportion of available products are actually commercialized, despite apparent market availability. We show that the low rates of commercialization can be explained by unequal access capital assets used for extraction, to natural resources themselves, and to product markets. They are also explained by the concentration of capital-poor households on subsistence gathering activities. The value of destructive uses of forests, both logging and agriculture, remain higher than returns from non-timber products. This research demonstrates that although non-timber forest products are an important livelihood source, market integration and commercialization is not everywhere an appropriate or realistic strategy.
3659030|Rates and reactions of biogeochemical processes vary in space and time to produce both hot spots and hot moments of elemental cycling. We define biogeochemical hot spots as patches that show disproportionately high reaction rates relative to the surrounding matrix, whereas hot moments are defined as short periods of time that exhibit disproportionately high reaction rates relative to longer intervening time periods. As has been appreciated by ecologists for decades, hot spot and hot moment activity is often enhanced at terrestrial-aquatic interfaces. Using examples from the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycles, we show that hot spots occur where hydrological flowpaths converge with substrates or other flowpaths containing complementary or missing reactants. Hot moments occur when episodic hydrological flowpaths reactivate and/or mobilize accumulated reactants. By focusing on the delivery of specific missing reactants via hydrologic flowpaths, we can forge a better mechanistic understanding of the factors that create hot spots and hot moments. Such a mechanistic understanding is necessary so that biogeochemical hot spots can be identified at broader spatiotemporal scales and factored into quantitative models. We specifically recommend that resource managers incorporate both natural and artificially created biogeochemical hot spots into their plans for water quality management. Finally, we emphasize the needs for further research to assess the potential importance of hot spot and hot moment phenomena in the cycling of different bioactive elements, improve our ability to predict their occurrence, assess their importance in landscape biogeochemistry, and evaluate their utility as tools for resource management.
25470342|During the 20th century, high mortality rates of Scots pine (Pinus silvestris L.) have been observed over large areas in the Rhne valley (Valais, Switzerland) and in other dry valleys of the European Alps. In this study, we evaluated drought as a possible inciting factor of Scots pine decline in the Valais. Averaged tree-ring widths, standardized tree-ring series, and estimated annual mortality risks were related to a drought index. Correlations between drought indices and standardized tree-ring series from 11 sites showed a moderate association. Several drought years and drought periods could be detected since 1864 that coincided with decreased growth. Although single, extreme drought years had generally a short-term, reversible effect on tree growth, multi-year drought initiated prolonged growth decreases that increased a tree's long-term risk of death. Tree death occurred generally several years or even decades after the drought. In conclusion, drought has a limiting effect on tree growth and acts as a bottleneck event in triggering Scots pine decline in the Valais.
25470420|The land-use history of an ecosystem influences current structure and possibly response to modern disturbances and stresses. In semiarid systems the nature of land-use legacies is poorly understood, confounding efforts to establish sustainable management approaches. We compare previously cultivated and non-cultivated lands in Owens Valley, California, where cultivation once extended to 34% of the valley floor but was largely discontinued by 1940, to measure the influence of past disturbance on modern vegetation. We combined historic maps of cultivated and non-cultivated land with an extensive vegetation survey, historic aerial photographs, and satellite measurements of vegetation response to precipitation variability to examine the importance of land-use history in determining the sensitivity of vegetation to annual variations in precipitation. Remote sensing analysis showed that total plant cover on previously cultivated lands was lower and fluctuations in cover were marginally more dependent on precipitation compared with plant cover on non-cultivated lands. We then compared modern plant assemblages within cultivated and non-cultivated land to determine if compositional differences could explain the current patterns of vegetation cover. We found lower species richness on previously cultivated parcels, and higher frequency and cover of perennial grasses on non-cultivated lands. Therefore, we showed differences in land-cover patterns, isolated a mechanism that could account for the differences (species differences), and developed a method for remotely analyzing land regions that have experienced historic anthropogenic disturbance.
3658755|Large, infrequent disturbances (LIDs) can have significant impacts yet seldom are included in management plans. Although this neglect may stem from relative unfamiliarity with a kind of event that rarely occurs in the experience or jurisdiction of individual managers, it may also reflect the assumption that LIDs are so large and powerful as to be beyond the ability of managers to affect. However, some LIDs can be affected by management, and for many of those that cannot be affected, the resilience or recovery of the system disrupted by the disturbance can be influenced to meet management goals. Such results can be achieved through advanced planning that allows for LIDs, whether caused by natural events, human activities, or a combination of the two. Management plans for LIDs may adopt a variety of goals, depending on the nature of the system and the nature of the anticipated disturbance regime. Managers can choose to influence (a) the system prior to the disturbance, (b) the disturbance itself, (c) the system after the disturbance, or (d) the recovery process. Prior to the disturbance, the system can be managed in ways that alter its vulnerability or change how it will respond to a disturbance. The disturbance can be managed through no action, preventive measures, or manipulations that can affect the intensity or frequency of the disturbance. Recovery efforts can focus on either managing the state of the system immediately after the disturbance or managing the ongoing process of recovery. This review of the management implications of LIDs suggests that management actions should be tailored to particular disturbance characteristics and management goals. Management actions should foster survival of residuals and spatial heterogeneity that promote the desired recovery pattern and process. Most importantly, however, management plans need to recognize LIDs and include the potential for such disturbances to occur.
25053861|The aim of this study was to help understand the interaction of rural people with tropical dry forests. It was based on social research conducted in the Chamela-Cuixmala region, on the Pacific coast of Mexico. The analytical tools used in the study included stakeholder identification, environmental history and social perceptions. The two main social groups in the study were ejidatarios, who own most of the territory, and avecindados, who possess no land but have high population numbers. Through an interpretative methodological approach we documented the vision and meaning that rural people give to their natural and social worlds. The agricultural development model promoted by the Mexican government for decades was identified as the main driver of ecosystem transformation. Rural people, who arrived recently in the region, were proud of the pasture-lands that were transformed from tropical forests. Conservation policies implemented during the last two decades were viewed as impositions although people recognized the value of services provided by ecosystems. This case study has helped to unravel the main dimensions of the human system and how it relates to structures of signification. The social panorama unveiled can be used as an initial basis to promote further research on the social-ecological system of the Chamela-Cuixmala region and to develop future participatory management schemes.
23501499|We present the results of a full year of high-resolution monitoring of hydrologic event-driven export of stream dissolved organic matter (DOM) from the forested Bigelow Brook watershed in Harvard Forest, Massachusetts, USA. A combination of in situ fluorescent dissolved organic matter (FDOM) measurement, grab samples, and bioassays was utilized. FDOM was identified as a strong indicator of concentration for dissolved organic carbon (DOC, r 2 = 0.96), dissolved organic nitrogen (DON, r 2 = 0.81), and bioavailable DOC (BDOC, r 2 = 0.81). Relationships between FDOM and concentration were utilized to improve characterization of patterns of hydrological event-driven export and the quantification of annual export. This characterization was possible because DOM composition remained relatively consistent seasonally; however, a subtle shift to increased fluorescence per unit absorbance was observed for summer and fall seasons and percent BDOC did increase slightly with increasing concentrations. The majority of export occurred during pulsed hydrological events, so the greatest impact of bioavailable exports may be on downstream aquatic ecosystems. Export from individual events was highly seasonal in nature with the highest flow weighted mean concentrations (DOC FW ) being observed in late summer and fall months, but the highest total export being observed for larger winter storms. Seasonal trends in DOC export coincide with weather driven changes in surface and subsurface flow paths, potential for depletion and rebuilding of a flushable soil organic matter pool, and the availability of terrestrial carbon sources such as leaf litter. Our approach and findings demonstrate the utility of high frequency FDOM measurement to improve estimates of intra-annual temporal trends of DOM export.
40928230|Availabilities of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) have a strong influence on plant growth and the species composition of savannas, but it is not clear how these availabilities depend on factors such as fire, N-fixation, and activities of wild herbivores and cattle. We quantified soil N and P availabilities in various ways (extractable pools, mineralization, resin adsorption) along vegetation gradients within a recently abandoned cattle ranch and a former game reserve in Tanzania (both areas now part of the Saadani National Park). We also assessed annual N and P balances to evaluate how long-term availabilities of N and P are affected by large herbivores, symbiotic N-fixation, and fire. The results show that cattle ranching led to a spatial re-distribution of nutrients, with the local accumulation of P being stronger and more persistent than that of N. In the former game reserve, intensively grazed patches of short grass tended to have elevated soil N and P availabilities; however, because quantities of nutrients removed through grazing exceeded returns in dung and urine, the nutrient balances of these patches were negative. In dense Acacia stands, N-fixation increased N availability and caused a net annual N input. Fire was the major cause for nutrient losses from tallgrass savanna, and estimated N inputs from the atmosphere and symbiotic N-fixation were insufficient to compensate for these losses. Our results call into question the common assumption that N budgets in annually burned savanna are balanced; rather, these ecosystems are a mosaic of patches with both N enrichment and impoverishment, which vary according to the vegetation type.
23501496|Insect outbreaks in northern-boreal forests are expected to intensify owing to climate warming, but our understanding of direct and cascading impacts of insect outbreaks on forest ecosystem functioning is deficient. The duration and severity of outbreaks by geometrid moths in northern Fennoscandian mountain birch forests have been shown to be accentuated by a recent climate-mediated range expansion, in particular of winter moth (Operophtera brumata). Here, we assess the effect of moth outbreak severity, quantified from satellite-based defoliation maps, on the state of understory vegetation and the abundance of key vertebrate herbivores in mountain birch forest in northern Norway. We show that the most recent moth outbreak caused a regional-scale state change to the understory vegetation, mainly due to a shift in dominance from the allelopathic and unpalatable dwarf-shrub Empetrum nigrum to the productive and palatable grass Avenella flexuosa. Both these central understory plant species responded significantly and nonlinearly to increasing outbreak severity. We further provide evidence that the effects of the outbreak on understory vegetation cascaded to cause strong but opposite impacts on the abundance of the two most common herbivore groups. Rodents increased with defoliation, largely mirroring the increase in A. flexuosa, whereas ungulate abundance instead showed a decreasing trend. Our analyses also suggest that the response of understory vegetation to defoliation may depend on the initial state of the forest, with poorer forest types potentially allowing stronger responses to defoliation.
25470377|In this work, we summarize our current understanding of the function of riparian zones and describe an investigation of changes in the production per unit nitrogen (N) taken up, or nitrogen-use efficiency (NUE) and resource allocation of a riparian shrub in response to changes in N availability. Empirical work included measuring leaf %N and root-to-shoot ratios (R:S) of individual riparian shrubs (Baccharis salicifolia, or seepwillow) growing at a range of N availabilities in the field and growing in fertilized and unfertilized plots in a field fertilization experiment. In both observational and experimental work, N availability was related positively to %N of plant tissues and negatively to R:S. We used a simulation model to investigate feedbacks between seepwillow responses to and effects on N availability. In the model, plasticity in resource allocation and NUE in response to changes in N led to lower productivity at low N supply and higher productivity and lower retention at high N supply than was observed in plants constrained to a constant %N and R:S. Furthermore, uptake became relatively more important as a retention mechanism when plants responded to high N supply. These feedbacks could have significant effects on N retention by riparian zones in watersheds receiving large fertilizer inputs of N or on ecosystems exposed to high rates of atmospheric N deposition.
41505904|Termites produce methane (CH) as a by-product of microbial metabolism of food in their hindguts, and are one of the most uncertain components of the regional and global CH exchange estimates. This study was conducted at Howard Springs near Darwin, and presents the first estimate of CH emissions from termites based on replicated in situ seasonal flux measurements in Australian savannas. Using measured fluxes of CH between termite mounds and the atmosphere, and between soil and the atmosphere across seasons we determined net CH flux within a tropical savanna woodland of northern Australia. By accounting for both moundbuilding and subterranean termite colony types, and estimating the contribution from tree-dwelling colonies it was calculated that termites were a CH source of +0.24 kg CH-C ha y and soils were a CH sink of -1.14 kg CH-C ha y. Termites offset 21% of CH consumed by soil resulting in net sink strength of -0.90 kg CH-C ha y for these savannas. For Microcerotermes nervosus (Hill), the most abundant mound-building termite species at this site, mound basal area explained 48% of the variation in mound CH flux. CH emissions from termites offset 0.1% of the net biome productivity (NBP) and CH consumption by soil adds 0.5% to the NBP of these tropical savannas at Howard Springs.
3658887|In one of the most influential studies in the recent history of forest ecology, W. W. Covington (1981) described a pattern in organic matter storage in the forest floors of northern hardwood stands as a function of date of harvest. We review the history of the use and misuse of Covington's curve, describe the studies that tested and failed to support early interpretations of the curve, and provide some alternate interpretations. The curve suggested that forest floor organic matter declines by 50% within 20 years after harvest, and this decline was attributed to accelerated decomposition and changes in litter inputs after harvest. Subsequent studies showed that decomposition rates of surface litter generally decrease after clear-cutting, but accelerated decomposition remains possible in the Oe and Oa horizons. Changes in litter inputs are still difficult to evaluate, because the rate at which woody debris enters the forest floor is unknown. Although Covington attempted to minimize variation due to mechanical disturbance during logging, a reasonable alternative explanation for low organic matter in the forest floor of young stands is that surface material is mixed into mineral soil during harvesting operations. The pattern of forest floor organic matter in stands of different ages may be partly due to changes over time in logging technology and the intensity of biomass removal, in addition to successional effects. It is important to distinguish between mechanisms that release carbon to the atmosphere and those that transfer it to the mineral soil before making inferences about nutrient cycling and carbon sequestration.
41413968|Elevated concentrations of atmospheric CO and tropospheric O will profoundly influence future forest productivity, but our understanding of these influences over the long-term is poor. Leaves are key indicators of productivity and we measured the mass, area, and nitrogen concentration of leaves collected in litter traps from 2002 to 2008 in three young northern temperate forest communities exposed to elevated CO and/or elevated O since 1998. On average, the overall effect of elevated CO (+CO and +CO+O versus ambient and +O) was to increase leaf mass by 36% whereas the overall effect of elevated O was to decrease leaf mass by 13%, with similar effects on stand leaf area. However, there were important CO x O x year interactions wherein some treatment effects on leaf mass changed dramatically relative to ambient from 2002 to 2008. For example, stimulation by the +CO treatment decreased (from +52 to +25%). whereas the deleterious effects of the +O treatment increased (from -5 to -18%). In comparison, leaf mass in the +CO+O treatment was similar to ambient throughout the study. Forest composition influenced these responses: effects of the +O treatment on community-level leaf mass ranged from +2 to -19%. These findings are evidence that community composition, stand development processes, CO, and O strongly interact. Changes in leaf nitrogen concentration were inconsistent, but leaf nitrogen mass (g m) was increased by elevated CO(+30%) and reduced by elevated O(-16%), consistent with observations that nitrogen cycling is accelerated by elevated CO but retarded by elevated O.
40296359|We compared regression tree analyses and multiple linear regression models to explore the relative importance of physical factors, land use, and water quality in predicting phytoplankton production and N fixation potentials at 85 locations along riverine to lacustrine gradients within eight southern reservoirs. The regression tree model (r = 0.73) revealed that differences in phytoplankton production were primarily a function of water depth. The highest rates of production (mg C m h) occurred at shallow sites (< 0.9m), where rates were also related to total phosphorus (TP) levels. At deeper sites, production rates were higher at sites with relative drainage area (RDA, ratio of drainage area to water surface area) below 45, potentially due to longer hydraulic residence times. In contrast, multiple linear regression selected TP, RDA, dissolved phosphorus, and percent developed land as significant model variables (r = 0.63). The regression tree model (r = 0.67) revealed that N fixation potentials (mg N m h) were substantially higher at sites with relatively smaller drainage areas (RDA < 45). Within this subgroup, fixation rates were additionally related to TP values (threshold = 41 g 1). The multiple linear regression model (r = 0.67) also selected RDA as the primary predictor of N fixation. Regression tree models suggest that nutrient controls (phosphorus) were subordinate to physical factors such as depth and RDA. We concluded that regression tree analysis was well suited to revealing nonlinear trends in data (for example, depth), but yielded large uncertainty estimates when applied to linear data (for example, phosphorus).
3658740|Plant ecophysiological changes in response to climatic change may be different in northern and southern European countries because different abiotic factors constrain plant physiological activity. We studied the effects of experimental warming and drought on the photosynthetic performance of two ericaceous shrubs (Erica multiflora and Calluna vulgaris) along a European gradient of temperature and precipitation (UK, Denmark, The Netherlands, and Spain). At each site, a passive warming treatment was applied during the night throughout the whole year, whereas the drought treatment excluded rain events over 6-10 weeks during the growing season. We measured leaf gas exchange, chlorophyll a fluorescence, and leaf carbon isotope ratio (
25053886|We examined the dynamics of fish species and how they relate to species assemblage coherence in the heavily exploited Georges Bank fish community. Coherence is defined as reduced temporal variability of total assemblage biomass. We assumed that a higher degree of compensation hence coherence occurs within competitively coupled species assemblages; therefore, fisheries may directly alter the dynamics of certain targeted species sizes but assemblage structure will be relatively more stable owing to compensatory interactions. Species-sizes were grouped, based on negative covariance coupling in biomass time series from survey data. Assemblages representing benthic feeders were clearly identified by this method; furthermore, the most heavily exploited species-sizes were decoupled from other species-sizes suggesting that fisheries have diminished their potential to compensate or to be compensated for by competitive interactions. Biomass of species-sizes within known trophic guilds strongly compensated other guild-member biomass fluctuations if the diet of guild members was more specialized. This is an indication that more competitive conditions (more specialization) foster greater compensatory responses between competitors biomass fluctuations.
3658584|Animal body sizes reflect the discontinuous architecture of the landscapes in which they live, and consequently their body-mass distributions are distinctly clumped rather than continuous. This architectural discontinuity is generated by ecological processes that discretely operate over micro-, meso-, and macroscales. Therefore, changes in these important scale-specific processes for a given geographical region over time should be reflected by corresponding changes in faunal body-mass clump patterns. In this study, we utilized this hypothesis to investigate the terminal Pleistocene mammal extinction event. Specifically, we analyzed the body-mass distributions of latest Pleistocene and modern mammal faunas from northern Florida and southern California to determine the nature of any changes in the clump structures of these regions during the Pleistocene-Holocene transition. In both regions, despite their wide geographical separation and faunal distinctiveness, body-mass clumps below the 40-kg level were remarkably stable across the Pleistocene-Holocene transition despite suffering extinctions. Larger clumps, in contrast, were either orderly truncated or completely eliminated rather than chaotically fragmented. Based on these findings, we argue that the terminal Pleistocene mammal extinctions were caused, at least in part, by changes in key mesoscale aspects of the landscape crucial to supporting a diversity of large mammals.
3658966|Boreal Shield rocky ridges at the Experimental Lakes Area, northwestern Ontario, contain two plant/soil communities with contrasting N cycles. Picea mariana-Pinus banksiana "forest islands" are N limited whereas the lichen, moss, and grass community (or "lichen patches") on the surrounding bedrock outcrops appear intrinsically N saturated. The potential for this landscape to retain a N input of eightfold ambient levels was tested with a 2-y addition of
40296274|Urban ecosystems are profoundly modified by human activities and thereby provide a unique "natural laboratory" to study potential ecosystem responses to anthropogenic environmental changes. Because urban environments are now affected by urban heat islands, carbon dioxide domes, and high-level nitrogen deposition, to some extent they portend the future of the global ecosystem. Urbanization in the metropolitan region of Phoenix, Arizona (USA) has resulted in pronounced changes in air temperature (Tair), atmospheric CO concentration, and nitrogen deposition (Ndep ). In this study, we used a process-based ecosystem model to explore how the Larrea tridentata dominated Sonoran Desert ecosystem may respond to these urbanization-induced environmental changes. We found that water availability controls the magnitude and pattern of responses of the desert ecosystem to elevated CO , air temperature, N deposition and their combinations. Urbanization effects were much stronger in wet years than normal and dry years. At the ecosystem level, aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) and soil organic matter (SOM) both increased with increasing CO and Ndep individually and in combinations with changes in Tair . Soil N (NSoil) responded positively to increased N deposition and air temperature, but negatively to elevated CO. Correspondingly, ANPP and SOM of the Larrea ecosystem decreased along the urban-suburbanwildland gradient, whereas NSoil peaked in the suburban area. At the plant functional type (FT) level, ANPP generally responded positively to elevated CO and Ndep , but negatively to increased Tair. C winter annuals showed a greater ANPP response to higher CO levels (> 420 ppm) than shrubs, which could lead over the long term to changes in species composition, because competition among functional groups is strong for resources such as soil water and nutrients. Overall, the combined effects of the three environmental factors depended on rainfall variability and nonlinear interactions within and between plant functional types and environmental factors. We intend to use these simulation results as working hypotheses to guide our field experiments and observations. Experimental testing of these hypotheses through this process should improve our understanding of urban ecosystems under increasing environmental stresses.
25622905|We evaluated the biogeochemical cycling and relative greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation potential of proposed biofuel feedstock crops by modeling growth dynamics of Miscanthus  giganteus Greef et Deuter (miscanthus), Panicum virgatum L. (switchgrass), Zea mays L. (corn), and a mixed prairie community under identical field conditions. DAYCENT model simulations for miscanthus were parameterized with data from trial plots in Europe and Illinois, USA. Switchgrass, corn, and prairie ecosystems were simulated using parameters published in the literature. A previously unknown source of nitrogen (N) was necessary to balance the plant nutrient budget in miscanthus crops, leading us to hypothesize that miscanthus growth depends on N-fixation. We tested for nitrogenase activity by acetylene reduction of whole rhizomes and bacteria isolated from the rhizosphere and miscanthus tissue. Our results supported the hypothesis that biological N-fixation contributed to the N demand of miscanthus, a highly productive perennial grass. Corn agro-ecosystems emit $956\ \text{to}\ 1899\ {\rm g}\ {\rm CO}_{2{\rm eq}}\ {\rm m}^{-2}{\rm y}^{-1}$ greater GHGs (including CO, NO, CH) to the atmosphere than the other biofuel crop alternatives because of greater NO emissions from fertilizer additions. Of the feedstock crops evaluated in this study, miscanthus would result in the greatest GHG reduction.
25053887|European earthworms are colonizing worm-free hardwood forests across North America. Leading edges of earthworm invasion in forests of northern Minnesota provide a rare opportunity to document changes in soil characteristics as earthworm invasions are occurring. Across leading edges of earthworm invasion in four northern hardwood stands, increasing total earthworm biomass was associated with rapid disappearance of the O horizon. Concurrently, the thickness, bulk density and total soil organic matter content of the A horizon increased, and it's percent organic matter and fine root density decreased. Different earthworm species assemblages influenced the magnitude and type of change in these soil parameters. Soil N and P availability were lower in plots with high earthworm biomass compared to plots with low worm biomass. Decreases in soil nitrogen availability associated with high earthworm biomass were reflected in decreased foliar nitrogen content for Carex pensylvanica, Acer saccharum and Asarum canadense but increased foliar N for Athyrium felix-femina. Overall, high earthworm biomass resulted in increased foliar carbon to nitrogen ratios. The effects of earthworm species assemblages on forest soil properties are related to their feeding and burrowing habits in addition to effects related to total biomass. The potential for large ecosystem consequences following exotic earthworm invasion has only recently been recognized by forest ecologists. In the face of rapid change and multiple pressures on native forest ecosystems, the impacts of earthworm invasion on forest soil structure and function must be considered.
23501495|Expansion of woody vegetation into areas that were historically grass-dominated is a significant contemporary threat to grasslands, including native tallgrass prairie ecosystems of the Midwestern United States. In tallgrass prairie, much of this woody expansion is concentrated in riparian zones with potential impacts on biogeochemical processes there. Although the effects of woody riparian vegetation on denitrification in both riparian soils and streams have been well studied in naturally wooded ecosystems, less is known about the impacts of woody vegetation encroachment in ecosystems that were historically dominated by herbaceous vegetation. Here, we analyze the effect of afforestation and subsequent woody plant removal on riparian and benthic denitrification. Denitrification rates in riparian soil and selected benthic compartments were measured seasonally in naturally grass-dominated riparian zones, woody encroached riparian zones, and riparian zones with woody vegetation removed in two separate watersheds. Riparian soil denitrification was highly seasonal, with the greatest rates in early spring. Benthic denitrification also exhibited high temporal variability, but no seasonality. Soil denitrification rates were greatest in riparian zones where woody vegetation was removed. Additionally, concentrations of nitrate, carbon, and soil moisture (indicative of potential anoxia) were greatest in wood removal soils. Differences in the presence and abundance of benthic compartments reflected riparian vegetation, and may have indirectly affected denitrification in streams. Riparian soil denitrification increased with soil water content and NO 3 - . Management of tallgrass prairies that includes removal of woody vegetation encroaching on riparian areas may alter biogeochemical cycling by increasing nitrogen removed via denitrification while the restored riparian zones return to a natural grass-dominated state.
43677499|Forest ecosystems in most industrialized and agricultural regions receive elevated rates of atmospheric nitrogen (N) deposition from air pollution. To evaluate the effects of excess N deposition on carbon (C) and N cycling, we experimentally added N (as NHNO) to naturally-occurring, single-species plots of five different tree species that are common in the Northern Hardwood forests of northeastern North America: sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh), American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.), yellow birch (Betula alleghaniensis Britton), eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis (L.) Carr), and northern red oak (Quercus rubra L.). The experiment was performed in the Catskill Mountains of southeastern New York State, USA, and used a paired-plot design with six replicate plots per species. After 6 years of treatment, most species showed increases in foliar N concentrations in N-treated plots, but only for maple and birch were those increases statistically significant. No significant effects of the N treatment were observed on woody biomass increment or aboveground net primary production (ANPP) for any species. In the oak plots, the N treatment increased acorn production in mast years. In the soils, the N treatment was associated with a significant decline in potential N mineralization and nitrification rates in the mineral horizon but not in the forest floor, and in the mineral horizon the effect of the N treatment varied among species. The N treatment caused a significant increase in C stock, N stock and C:N ratio in the forest floor, with the largest effect in the hemlock plots. Nitrate leaching increased significantly in treated plots compared to controls. Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in soil solution was unaffected by the N treatment, but the variation in DOC across plots was correlated with the C stock in the forest floor. These results suggest that the ANPP of these forests is not limited by N availability, but that excess N may cause accumulations of C in the forest floor, particularly in hemlock stands, perhaps through inhibition of decomposition rates or by altering phenolic chemistry of the litter. The magnitude, and sometimes the direction of the N treatment responses varied among species, suggesting that predictions of forest responses to elevated N deposition should take into account spatial and temporal variation in tree species composition.
27823702|In many areas of the northern Mediterranean Basin the abundance of forest and scrubland vegetation is increasing, commensurate with decreases in agricultural land use(s). Much of the land use/cover change (LUCC) in this region is associated with the marginalization of traditional agricultural practices due to ongoing socioeconomic shifts and subsequent ecological change. Regression-based models of LUCC have two purposes: (i) to aid explanation of the processes driving change and/or (ii) spatial projection of the changes themselves. The independent variables contained in the single 'best' regression model (that is, that which minimizes variation in the dependent variable) cannot be inferred as providing the strongest causal relationship with the dependent variable. Here, we examine the utility of hierarchical partitioning and multinomial regression models for, respectively, explanation and prediction of LUCC in EU Special Protection Area 56, 'Encinares del ro Alberche y Cofio' (SPA 56) near Madrid, Spain. Hierarchical partitioning estimates the contribution of regression model variables, both independently and in conjunction with other variables in a model, to the total variance explained by that model and is a tool to isolate important causal variables. By using hierarchical partitioning we find that the combined effects of factors driving land cover transitions varies with land cover classification, with a coarser classification reducing explained variance in LUCC. We use multinomial logistic regression models solely for projecting change, finding that accuracies of maps produced vary by land cover classification and are influenced by differing spatial resolutions of socioeconomic and biophysical data. When examining LUCC in human-dominated landscapes such as those of the Mediterranean Basin, the availability and analysis of spatial data at scales that match causal processes is vital to the performance of the statistical modelling techniques used here.
25053838|The Boundary Waters Canoe Area (BWCA) Wilderness of northern Minnesota, USA, ememplifies how fire management and natural disturbance determine forest composition and landscape structure at a broad scale. Historically, the BWCA (>400,000 ha) was subject to crown fires with a mean rotation period of 50-100 y. Fires often overlapped, creating a mosaic of differently aged stands with many stands burning frequently or, alternatively, escaping fire for several centuries. The BWCA may never have reached a steady-state (defined as a stable landscape age-class structure). In the early 1900s, a diminished fire regime began creating a more demographically diverse forest, characterized by increasingly uneven-aged stands. Shade-tolerant species typical of the region began replacing the shade-intolerant species that composed the fire-generated even-aged stands. Red pine (Pinus resinosa) stands are relatively uncommon in the BWCA today and are of special concern. The replacement of early-to-midsuccessional species is occurring at the scale of individual gaps, producing mixed-species multiaged forests. We used LANDIS, a spatially explicit forest landscape model, to investigate the long-term consequences of fire reintroduction or continuing fire absence on forest composition and landscape structure. Fire reintroduction was evaluated at three potential mean fire rotation periods (FRP): 50,100, and 300 y. Our model scenarios predict that if fire reintroduction mimics the natural fire regime (bracketed by FRP = 50 and 100 y), it will be most successful at preserving the original species composition and landscape structure, although jack pine (Pinus banksiana) may require special management. With limited fire reintroduction, all of the extant species are retained although species dominance and landscape structure will be substantially altered. If fire remains absent, many fire-dependent species will be lost as local dominants, including red pine. The landscape appears to be in a state of rapid change and a shift in management to promote fire may need to be implemented soon to prevent further deviation from historic, presettlement conditions.
25470404|The Tongass National Forest (Tongass) is the largest national forest and largest area of old-growth forest in the United States. Spatial geographic information system data for the Tongass were combined with forest inventory data to estimate and map total carbon stock in the Tongass; the result was 2.8  0.5 Pg C, or 8% of the total carbon in the forests of the conterminous USA and 0.25% of the carbon in global forest vegetation and soils. Cumulative net carbon loss from the Tongass due to management of the forest for the period 1900-95 was estimated at 6.4-17.2 Tg C. Using our spatially explicit data for carbon stock and net flux, we modeled the potential effect of five management regimes on future net carbon flux. Estimates of net carbon flux were sensitive to projections of the rate of carbon accumulation in second-growth forests and to the amount of carbon left in standing biomass after harvest. Projections of net carbon flux in the Tongass range from 0.33 Tg C annual sequestration to 2.3 Tg C annual emission for the period 1995-2095. For the period 1995-2195, net flux estimates range from 0.19 Tg C annual sequestration to 1.6 Tg C annual emission. If all timber harvesting in the Tongass were halted from 1995 to 2095, the economic value of the net carbon sequestered during the 100-year hiatus, assuming $20/Mg C, would be $4 to $7 million/y (1995 US dollars). If a prohibition on logging were extended to 2195, the annual economic value of the carbon sequestered would be largely unaffected ($3 to $6 million/y). The potential annual economic value of carbon sequestration with management maximizing carbon storage in the Tongass is comparable to revenue from annual timber sales historically authorized for the forest.
3658597|Indirect trophic effects play important roles in ecosystem dynamics and can at times oppose and dominate the action of direct feeding linkages. Each predator directly exerts a negative effect upon its prey, but predators may also provide indirect benefits to their prey. In ecosystems, such benefits are effected via indirect trophic pathways that can provide a more than compensating positive influence. The ecosystem of the Big Cypress National Preserve (southwest Florida) appears to contain an unusually high number of such predators-most notably, the American alligator, Alligator mississippiensis. The trophic exchanges of carbon among the 68 principal taxa comprising the cypress wetland ecosystem have been quantified during both wet and dry seasons. The network analysis program IMPACTS identified predators that potentially have a positive influence on some of their prey. A total of 64 of these instances were recorded for the wet season and 44 for the dry. Taxa that, on balance, have positive effects upon their prey include fishes, turtles, snakes, birds, and, most significantly, alligators. The feeding habits of alligators benefit a conspicuous number (11) of their prey (invertebrates, frogs, mice, and rats). Further trophic analysis reveals that the predation by alligators on snakes and turtles accounts for most of the trophic benefits bestowed. The actions of alligators in modifying their physical environment has been cited elsewhere as contributing to the maintenance of biotic diversity. It appears that the trophic influence of this species adds further evidence to the important role it plays in the functional ecology of the cypress wetland.
23501294|Recent high-latitude warming is increasing the vulnerability of permafrost to thaw, which is amplified by local disturbances such as fire. However, the long-term ecological effects and carbon dynamics are not well understood. Here we present a 2200-year record of pollen, plant macrofossils, testate amoebae, and apparent carbon (C) accumulation rates from two peat cores in a collapsescar bog (thermokarst) near Fairbanks, Alaska. A black spruce ecosystem with low apparent C accumulation rates existed on the site during the first 1500 years of the record. We identify two thaw events, which are linked to local fires. Permafrost aggraded rapidly following the first thaw, which we attribute to local vegetation feedbacks and a cooler climate. The second thaw event at 525 cal y BP is preceded by a stand-replacing fire, as evidenced by a drastic decline in Picea and an initial increase in Epilobium, Salix, and ericaceous shrubs, followed by a sustained increase in Populus. Locally, the forest does not recover for more than 100 years, and the site has remained permafrost-free for the last 500 years. Following thaw, average apparent C accumulation rates (60 to > 100 g C m -2 y -1 ) are 56 times higher than average boreal C accumulation rates, indicating that peat C accumulation rates can remain substantially elevated for much more than a century following thaw. The low apparent C accumulation for the formerly forested, permafrost peat (< 5 g C m -2 y -1 ) may suggest that C accumulation increases substantially following thaw, but it remains unknown whether deep peat C loss occurred immediately following thaw. Well-preserved Sphagnum peat dominates during this period of rapid accumulation, except for an interval from 400 to 275 cal y BP which alternates between Sphagnum and vascular plant-dominated peat and wetter, minerotrophic conditions. A decline in Picea pollen during this interval and again 100 cal y BP suggests a decrease in suitable substrate for tree growth likely attributable to thermokarst expansion on the collapse-scar margin. These findings suggest that the combined effects of fire and thermokarst will result in a long-term reduction of spruce ecosystems in interior Alaska.
41413046|A predictive equation for estimating fire frequency was developed from theories and data in physical chemistry, ecosystem ecology, and climatology. We refer to this equation as the Physical Chemistry Fire Frequency Model (PC2FM). The equation was calibrated and validated with North American fire data (170 sites) prior to widespread industrial influences (before ~1850 CE) related to land use, fire suppression, and recent climate change to minimize non-climatic effects. We derived and validated the empirically based PC2FM for the purpose of estimating mean fire intervals (MFIs) from proxies of mean maximum temperature, precipitation, their interaction, and estimated reactant concentrations. Parameterization of the model uses reaction rate equations based on the concentration and physical chemistry of fuels and climate. The model was then calibrated and validated using centuries of empirical fire history data. An application of the PC2FM regression equation is presented and used to estimate historic MFI as controlled by climate. We discuss the effects of temperature, precipitation, and their interactions on fire frequency using the PC2FM concept and results. The exclusion of topographic, vegetation, and ignition variables from the PC2FM increased error at fine spatial scales, but allowed for the prediction of complex climate effects at broader temporal and spatial scales. The PC2FM equation is used to map coarse-scale historic fire frequency and assess climate impacts on landscapescale fire regimes.
25622886|Herbivory is a key process structuring plant communities in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, with variation in herbivory often being related to shifts between alternate states. On coral reefs, regional reductions in herbivores have underpinned shifts from coral to dominance by leathery macroalgae. These shifts appear difficult to reverse as these macroalgae are unpalatable to the majority of herbivores, and the macroalgae suppress the recruitment and growth of corals. The removal of macroalgae is, therefore, viewed as a key ecological process on coral reefs. On the Great Barrier Reef, Sargassum is a dominant macroalgal species following experimentally induced coralmacroalgal phase-shifts. We, therefore, used Sargassum assays and remote video cameras to directly quantify the species responsible for removing macroalgae across a range of coral reef habitats on Lizard Island, northern Great Barrier Reef. Despite supporting over 50 herbivorous fish species and six macroalgal browsing species, the video footage revealed that a single species, Naso unicornis, was almost solely responsible for the removal of Sargassum biomass across all habitats. Of the 42,246 bites taken from the Sargassum across all habitats, N. unicornis accounted for 89.8% (37,982) of the total bites, and 94.6% of the total mass standardized bites. This limited redundancy, both within and across local scales, underscores the need to assess the functional roles of individual species. Management and conservation strategies may need to look beyond the preservation of species diversity and focus on the maintenance of ecological processes and the protection of key species in critical functional groups.
41505960|Although environmental flow assessments and allocations have been practiced in Australia for nearly 20 years, to date they have not effectively incorporated indigenous values. In many cases, even though indigenous people rely substantially on aquatic resources, environmental flows have been assumed to be an acceptable surrogate for the protection of indigenous interests. This paper argues that the need to adapt flow assessments to account for linkages and dependencies between people and rivers is equally applicable to developed world indigenous contexts such as Australia as it is to developing countries where there has been some attempt to address indigenous or subsistence water requirements. We propose three challenges to conventional environmental flow assessments that, if met, will improve the ability of water resource planning to address indigenous interests. The first challenge is to recognize that in an indigenous context a different suite of species may be considered important when compared to those valued by other stakeholders. Although conservation status or rarity may be important, it is common and widespread species that make substantial contributions to indigenous household incomes through customary use. The second challenge is to accommodate a different set of management objectives in environmental flow allocation. Environmental flows will need to meet the requirement of hunting and fishing activities at rates that are socially and economically sustainable. The third and arguably most theoretically challenging task is for environmental flow assessments to take into account indigenous worldviews and the quality of peopleplace relationships that are significant in indigenous cultures. Meeting these three challenges to environmental flow assessment will assist water management agencies and other practitioners to protect indigenous interests as water allocation decisions are made.
25053849|Ecosystem tracer-level additions would benefit from a stable isotope-labeled source of complex organic molecules. We tested a method to label tree C with
3658625| Biomass accumulation in the secondary forests of abandoned pastures and slash-and-burn agricultural fallows is an important but poorly constrained component of the regional carbon budget for the Brazilian Amazon. Using empirical relationships derived from a global analysis, we predicted potential aboveground biomass accumulation (ABA) for the region's regrowth forests based on soil texture and climate data. For regrowth forests on nonsandy soils, the globally derived relationship provided a nearly unbiased linear predictor of Amazonian validation data consisting of 66 stands at seven sites; there was no significant difference between stands that regrew following use as pasture land and those that regrew following slash-and-burn agriculture. For regrowth forests on nonsandy soil, the 1 sigma error range of our ABA model was 58%-171% for the Amazonian validation data. For regrowth forests on sandy soils, the validation data were limited to 19 stands at one site, and the globally derived relationship was substantially biased multiplicatively and nonlinearly. Hence we developed a regional refinement by adding to our validation data ABA values from the two Amazonian sites with sandy soil that had previously been included in the global analysis. Based on a conservative jackknife goodness-of-fit assessment (leaving out one site at a time), we calculated a 1 sigma error range of 42%-158% for our sandy soil Amazonian regrowth forest ABA model. We present our predictions of potential regrowth forest ABA as a set of 0.5 resolution maps for the region at 5, 10, and 20 years following abandonment. 
25053862|Commonly observed positive correlations between litter nitrogen (N) concentrations and decomposition rates suggest that N frequently limits decomposition in its early stages. However, numerous studies have found little, if any, effect of N fertilization on decomposition. I directly compared internal substrate N and externally supplied inorganic N effects on decomposition in sites varying in soil N availability. I decomposed eight substrates (with initial %N from 0-2.5) in control and N-fertilized plots at eight grassland and forest sites in central Minnesota. N fertilization increased decomposition at only two of eight sites, even though decomposition was positively related to litter N at all sites and to soil N availability across sites. The effect of externally supplied N on decomposition was independent of litter N concentration, but was greater at sites with low N availability. The inconsistent effects of substrate and externally supplied N may have arisen because decomposers use organic N preferentially as an N source; because inorganic N availability across sites or with fertilization induced changes in microbial community attributes (for example, lower C:N or greater efficiency) that reduced the response of decomposition to increased inorganic N supply; or because the positive correlation between litter N or site N availability with decomposition was spurious, caused by tight correlations between litter or site N and some other factor that truly limited decomposition. These inconsistent effects of substrate N and external N supply on decomposition suggest that the oft-observed relationship between litter N and decomposition may not indicate N limitation of decomposition.
41505867|Ecosystem-level studies identify plant-soil feedbacks as important controls on soil nutrient availability, particularly for nitrogen and phosphorus. Although site- and species-specific studies of tree species-soil relationships are relatively common, comparatively fewer studies consider multiple coexisting species in old-growth forests across a range of sites that vary in underlying soil fertility. We characterized patterns in forest floor and mineral soil nutrients associated with four common tree species across eight undisturbed old-growth forests in Oregon, USA, and used two complementary conceptual models to assess tree species-soil relationships. Plant-soil feedbacks that could reinforce site-level differences in nutrient availability were assessed using the context-dependent relationships model, whereby relative species-based differences in each soil nutrient diverged or converged as nutrient status changed across sites. Tree species-soil relationships that did not reflect strong feedbacks were evaluated using a site-independent relationships model, whereby forest floor and surface mineral soil nutrient pools differed consistently by tree species across sites, without variation in deeper mineral soils. We found that the organically cycled elements carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus exhibited contextdependent differences among species in both forest floor and mineral soil, and most often followed a divergence model, whereby species differences were greatest at high-nutrient sites. These patterns are consistent with theory emphasizing biotic control of these elements through plant-soil feedback mechanisms. Site-independent species differences were strongest for pools of the weatherable cations calcium, magnesium, potassium, as well as phosphorus, in mineral soils. Site-independent species differences in forest floor nutrients were attributable to one species that displayed significantly greater forest floor mass accumulation. Our findings confirm that site-independent and context-dependent tree species-soil relationships occur simultaneously in old-growth temperate forests, with contextdependent relationships strongest for organically cycled elements, and site-independent relationships strongest for weatherable elements with inorganic cycling phases. These models provide complementary explanations for patterns of nutrient accumulation and cycling in mixed-species old-growth temperate forests.
3658693| Transferring fine-scale ecological knowledge into an understanding of earth system processes presents a considerable challenge to ecologists. Our objective here was to identify and quantify heterogeneity of, and relationships among, vegetation and soil properties in terra firme rain forest ecosystems in eastern Amazonia and assess implications for generating regional predictions of carbon (C) exchange. Some of these properties showed considerable variation among sites; soil textures varied from 11% to 92% clay. But we did not find any significant correlations between soil characteristics (percentage clay, nitrogen [N], C, organic matter) and vegetation characteristics (leaf area index [LAI], foliar N concentration, basal area, biomass, stem density). We found some evidence for increased drought stress on the sandier sites: There was a significant correlation between soil texture and wood 
3658605| The direct and indirect effects of increasing levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO
3658872|We investigated the effect of habitat loss on the ability of trees to shift in distribution across a landscape dominated by agriculture. The potential distribution shifts of four tree species (Diospyros virginiana, Oxydendron arboreum, Pinus virginiana, Quercus falcata var. falcata) whose northern distribution limits fall in the southern third of Ohio were used to assess possible distribution shift scenarios as a result of global warming. Our predictions derive from the results of simulations using (a) forest inventory based estimates of current distribution and abundance of target species; (b) a satellite-based estimate of forest habitat availability; and (c) a tree migration model (SHIFT). The current distribution and abundance of trees was estimated using USDA Forest Service's Forest Inventory Analysis data and distribution maps from the late 1960s; pre-European settlement forest-nonforest maps were used to represent the fully forested condition for calibration and comparison. Habitat-availability estimates in Ohio were estimated using classified Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) data from 1994. Tree abundance, forest availability and migration were modeled using a
40792955|Changing snow conditions have strong effects on northern ecosystems, but these effects are rarely incorporated into ecosystem models and our perception of how the ecosystems will respond to a warmer climate. We investigated the relationships between snow cover, plant phenology, level of invertebrate herbivory and leaf chemical traits in Betula nana in four different habitats located along a natural snow cover gradient. To separate the effect of snow per se from other differences, we manipulated the snow cover with snow fences in three habitats. The experimentally prolonged snow cover delayed plant phenology, but not as much as expected based on the pattern along the natural gradient. The positive effect of the snow treatment on plant nitrogen concentration was also weaker than expected, because plant nitrogen concentration closely followed plant phenology. The level of herbivory by leaf-chewing invertebrates increased in response to an increased snow cover, at least at the end of the growing season. The concentration of phenolic substances varied among habitats, treatments and sampling occasions, indicating that B. nana shrubs were able to retain a mosaic of secondary chemical quality despite altered snow conditions. This study shows that the effect of the snow cover period on leaf nitrogen concentration and level of herbivory can be predicted based on differences between habitats, whereas the effect of a changed plant phenology on plant nitrogen concentration is better explained by temporal trends within habitats. These results have important implications for how northern ecosystems should respond to future climate changes.
23501440|Knowledge of vulnerability provides the foundation for developing actions that minimize impacts and supports system views that are particularly desirable. We modified a well-established model to assess and describe the vulnerability of the two major industries dependent on the Great Barrier Reef (GBR) to extreme weather events. The modification entailed distinguishing between the properties that determine exposure, sensitivity, and adaptive capacity for both the ecological and the social components of a natural resource system. We surveyed 145 commercial fishers and 62 tourism operators following a severe tropical cyclone and a major flooding event that extensively affected the region in 2011. Exposure of these industries included direct risk to life and infrastructure and indirect risk from loss of important ecosystem services. Our study found that many commercial fishers and marine-based tourism operators were sensitive to changes in the GBR's condition and limited in their adaptive capacity. However, those with smaller businesses, higher levels of occupational identity, place attachment, formal networks, and strategic approaches also had higher levels of adaptive capacity. These results suggest that resource users with higher sensitivity to change are not necessarily the most vulnerable; sensitivity may be offset by adaptive capacity. That is, while exposure and sensitivity determine the potential impact of a climate-induced change, adaptive capacity may be a major influence on the impacts that eventuate. We empirically show that adaptive capacity is an obvious focus for climate adaptation planning.
23501504|Natural peatlands are known as an important source of methane (CH 4 ). However, most peatlands in Central Europe were drained for forestry purposes in the past and some of them have been recently restored, both having a strong impact on CH 4 emissions. The main aim of our study was to determine the effect of long-term drainage (a few decades) and hydrological restoration (3 years) on CH 4 emissions, potential CH 4 production and on the methanogenic Archaea community in different types of peatlands under various hydrological regimes. For this purpose, CH 4 emissions together with biotic and abiotic variables were measured over three growing seasons, in vitro potential CH 4 production was determined, and qPCR and DGGE fingerprinting were used for methanogenic community description in three ombrotrophic bogs (pristine, drained, restored) and two fens (pristine, drained) located in the umava National Park within the Bohemian Forest, Czech Republic. The highest CH 4 emissions, CH 4 potential production, and the highest diversity of the methanogenic community were observed in the pristine fen and bog. In the frame of interannual variability, a drought period seemed to play an important role in seasonal CH 4 fluxes. Plant species composition together with water table seemed to be the most important factors controlling CH 4 emission. Drainage led to a significant decrease in CH 4 emissions, potential CH 4 production, and the abundance and diversity of methanogens as compared to pristine sites. These post-drainage changes were more obvious in the fen site than on bog sites. However, none of the measured parameters showed significant changes during the 3 years after rewetting. We assume that the restored hydrology was not the main factor controlling CH 4 emissions and other factors such as vegetation composition and input of available substrate for methanogenic community were more important. Therefore it appears that the period necessary for regeneration of CH 4 emissions is the result of restoring all of these elementary factors together.
3659053|The field of resource management integrates human and ecological systems. It is currently undergoing a difficult transition as it broadens to accommodate new values and interests. Some of the problems associated with this transition are evident in marine ecosystems, where the management of the ecological-human interface has been hindered by a lack of basic understanding. Using marine fisheries as examples, this paper describes the proximate and underlying causes of the human-ecological problem. It identifies areas in which basic research is needed on the behavioral dynamics of marine resource use, including incentives, feedbacks, management scale, monitoring and evaluation, alternative management approaches, the role of history, and human capital. It discusses the cost of failing to invest in social science research and identifies barriers to interdisciplinary research. Priorities for interdisciplinary research are listed.
27823667|Because freshwater covers such a small fraction of the Earth's surface area, inland freshwater ecosystems (particularly lakes, rivers, and reservoirs) have rarely been considered as potentially important quantitative components of the carbon cycle at either global or regional scales. By taking published estimates of gas exchange, sediment accumulation, and carbon transport for a variety of aquatic systems, we have constructed a budget for the role of inland water ecosystems in the global carbon cycle. Our analysis conservatively estimates that inland waters annually receive, from a combination of background and anthropogenically altered sources, on the order of 1.9 Pg C y1 from the terrestrial landscape, of which about 0.2 is buried in aquatic sediments, at least 0.8 (possibly much more) is returned to the atmosphere as gas exchange while the remaining 0.9 Pg y1 is delivered to the oceans, roughly equally as inorganic and organic carbon. Thus, roughly twice as much C enters inland aquatic systems from land as is exported from land to the sea. Over prolonged time net carbon fluxes in aquatic systems tend to be greater per unit area than in much of the surrounding land. Although their area is small, these freshwater aquatic systems can affect regional C balances. Further, the inclusion of inland, freshwater ecosystems provides useful insight about the storage, oxidation and transport of terrestrial C, and may warrant a revision of how the modern net C sink on land is described.
3658944|In semiarid environments, surface soil properties play a major role in ecosystem dynamics through their influence on processes such as runoff, infiltration, seed germination, and seedling establishment. Surface soil properties usually show a high degree of spatial heterogeneity in semiarid areas, but direct tests to evaluate the consequences of this heterogeneity on seedling establishment are limited. Using a combination of spatial analysis by distance indices (SADIE) and principal components analysis (PCA), we quantified the spatiotemporal patterns of seedling survival of a Mediterranean native shrub (Pistacia lentiscus) during the first 3 years after planting on a semiarid degraded site in southeastern Spain. We used a variation partitioning method to identify environmental variables associated with seedling survival patterns. Three years after planting, only 36% of the seedlings survived. During the first summer, one-third of the seedlings died, with secondary major mortality in the 3rd summer after planting. The spatial pattern of survival became strongly clumped by the end of the first summer, with clearly defined patches (areas of high survival) and gaps (areas of low survival). The intensity of this pattern increased after subsequent high-mortality periods. Of the 14 environmental variables evaluated, the ones most strongly coupled to seedling survival were bare soil cover, sand content, and soil compaction. These findings contribute to our understanding of the linkages between the spatial heterogeneity of abiotic factors and the response of plant populations in semiarid degraded ecosystems and can be used to optimize restoration practices in these areas.
40603665|Community metabolism and dissolved organic and inorganic nutrient fluxes were assessed in impacted from fish farm discharges and reference vegetated (Posidonia oceanica) and adjacent unvegetated communities in the Aegean Sea, Greece. Both metabolism and nutrient fluxes significantly differed between impacted and reference communities, but the effect depended on community type and time of year. Net community production (NCP) in the impacted vegetated community decreased by 60%, respiration (R) by 34%, and gross primary production (GPP) by 44%. The GPP: R ratio declined more (35%) in the impacted unvegetated than in the corresponding vegetated community (15%), implying that proximity to the fish farm has a severe impact on the unvegetated community, leading to imbalanced metabolism (GPP < R) and heterotrophic (GPP: R = 0.9) conditions. Higher release of dissolved organic and inorganic carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorous was observed in the impacted vegetated community compared to the corresponding unvegetated one, implying intensification of mineralization in the seagrass community. On an annual scale, the impacted vegetated community supported increased DOC efflux by 204%, DON by 1639%, NH by 122%, and NO by 26%, whereas it supported release of DOP and P0 compared to the reference community, which removed these dissolved nutrients from the water column. The impacted unvegetated community supported an annual increase of DOC efflux by 208% and P0 by 42% and it released DON, NH , NO, and DOP, whereas the reference community took up these nutrients. Proximity to the fish farm altered the ecosystem state by lowering the productivity and by enhancing the nutrient release.
40603643|Growing evidence suggests that plant communities in the Low Arctic are responding to recent increases in air temperature. Changes to vegetation, particularly shifts in the abundance of upright shrubs, can influence surface energy balance (albedo), sensible and latent heat flux (evapotranspiration), snow conditions, and the ground thermal regime. Understanding fine-scale variability in vegetation across the shrub tundra ecotone is therefore essential as a monitoring baseline. In this article, we use object-based classifications of airphotos to examine changes in vegetation characteristics (cover and patch size) across a latitudinal gradient in the Mackenzie Delta uplands. This area is frequently mapped as homogenous vegetation, but it exhibits fine-scale variability in cover and patch size. Our results show that the total area and size of individual patches of shrub tundra decrease with increasing latitude. The gradual nature of this transition and its correlation with latitudinal variation in temperature suggests that the position of the shrub ecotone will be sensitive to continued warming. The impacts of vegetation structure on ecological processes make improved understanding of this heterogeneity critical to biophysical models of Low Arctic ecosystems.
40603618|Quantifying vegetation structure and function is critical for modeling ecological processes, and an emerging challenge is to apply models at multiple spatial scales. Land surface heterogeneity is commonly characterized using rectangular pixels, whose length scale reflects that of remote sensing measurements or ecological models rather than the spatial scales at which vegetation structure and function varies. We investigated the ' optimum' pixel size and shape for averaging leaf area index (LAI) measurements in relatively large (85 m estimates on a 600 x 600-m grid) and small (0.04 m measurements on a 40 x 40-m grid) patches of sub-Arctic tundra near Abisko, Sweden. We define the optimum spatial averaging operator as that which preserves the information content (IC) of measured LAI, as quantified by the normalized Shannon entropy (E S,n ) and Kullback-Leibler divergence (D KL ), with the minimum number of pixels. Based on our criterion, networks of Voronoi polygons created from triangulated irregular networks conditioned on hydrologie and topographic indices are often superior to rectangular shapes for averaging LAI at some, frequently larger, spatial scales. In order to demonstrate the importance of information preservation when upscaling, we apply a simple, validated ecosystem carbon flux model at the landscape level before and after spatial averaging of land surface characteristics. Aggregation errors are minimal due to the approximately linear relationship between flux and LAI, but large errors of approximately 45% accrue if the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) is averaged without preserving IC before conversion to LAI due to the nonlinear NDVI-LAI transfer function.
23501494|Biological soil crusts (BSCs) cover non-vegetated areas in most arid and semiarid ecosystems. BSCs play a crucial role in the redistribution of water and sediments and, ultimately, in the maintenance of ecosystem function. The effects of BSCs on water infiltration are complex. BSCs increase porosity and micro-topography, thus enhancing infiltration, but, at the same time, they can increase runoff by the secretion of hydrophobic compounds and clogging of soil pores upon wetting. BSCs confer stability on soil surfaces, reducing soil detachment locally; however, they can also increase runoff, which may increase sediment yield. Although the key role of BSCs in controlling infiltrationrunoff and erosion is commonly accepted, conflicting evidence has been reported concerning the influence of BSCs on runoff generation. Very little is known about the relative importance of different BSC features such as cover, composition, roughness, or water repellency, and the interactions of these attributes in runoff and erosion. Because BSC characteristics can affect water flows and erosion both directly and indirectly, we examined the direct and indirect effects of different BSC features on runoff and erosion in a semiarid ecosystem under conditions of natural rainfall. We built structural equation models to determine the relative importance of BSC cover and type and their derived surface attributes controlling runoff and soil erosion. Our results show that the hydrological response of BSCs varies depending on rainfall properties, which, in turn, determine the process governing overland flow generation. During intense rainfalls, runoff is controlled not only by rainfall intensity but also by BSC cover, which exerts a strong direct and indirect influence on infiltration and surface hydrophobicity. Surface hydrophobicity was especially high for lichen BSCs, thus masking the positive effect of lichen crust on infiltration, and explaining the lower infiltration rates recorded on lichen than on cyanobacterial BSCs. Under low intensity, rainfall volume exerts a stronger effect than rainfall intensity, and BSC features play a secondary role in runoff generation, reducing runoff through their effect on surface micro-topography. Under these conditions, lichen BSCs presented higher infiltration rates than cyanobacterial BSCs. Our results highlight the significant protective effect against erosion exerted by BSCs at the plot scale, enhancing surface stability and reducing sediment yield in both high- and low-magnitude rainfall events.
3658708|A whole-lake manipulation of food-web structure (introduction of a top predator, northern pike, to a minnow-dominated lake) was performed in a Canadian Shield lake (L110) to examine the stoichiometric consequences of changes in planktonic community structure generated by altered food-web structure. Minnow abundance, zooplankton biomass and community composition, microconsumer abundance, and concentration and carbon-phosphorus (C:P) ratio of suspended particulate matter were monitored in L110 and unmanipulated L240 before (1992) and after (1993-95) pike introduction. Algal biomass in L110 determined from microscopic examination for postmanipulation and premanipulation periods was also compared with dynamics in a suite of unmanipulated reference lakes from longterm monitoring records. Pike were added in spring in 1993 and 1994 in sufficient quantity to raise pike biomass to levels of around
25622867|There is still a poor understanding of how changes in the organic composition of litter contribute to slowing or even cessation of decomposition. Using C nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy of samples from the Canadian Intersite Decomposition Experiment (CIDET), we asked whether increasing lignin per se could account for the well-known increase in acid-unhydrolyzable residue (AUR), and secondly, using three litters from four sites with different mean annual temperatures, whether changes in organic composition would follow similar trajectories with C mass loss. At 6 years, there was 16-39% C remaining for 10 foliar litters and wood blocks at a site with rapid initial decomposition, and higher amounts remaining for three species at three colder sites. C NMR spectra obtained with rapid cross-polarization (CP) mainly showed increasing similarity among the foliar litters, although wood showed little change in composition. Foliage generally showed loss of O- and di-O-alkyl C, mainly from carbohydrate, and increase in alkyl, aromatic, phenolic and carboxyl C. However, O-alkyl C loss was limited, especially for litters with slow initial decomposition, and many litters showed relatively small changes in intensity distribution. Quantitative C ("BD") spectra showed similar trends, but even smaller changes in C composition, and 6-year CP difference spectra showed that C was lost across the whole range of structures. Changes in C were small and variable, but could be correlated to some extent with loss of carbohydrates versus tannins. Lignin was not selectively preserved, and the increase of resistant structures derived from lignin, tannins, and cutin collectively accounts for increasing AUR. Compositional changes of NMR C fractions across sites with different temperatures were small and inconsistent, likely due to the influence of other site factors; however, changes in their contents did largely follow consistent trajectories with %C remaining.
25053884|Urbanization can potentially alter watershed nitrogen (N) retention via combined changes in N loading, water runoff, and N processing potential. We examined N export and retention for two headwater catchments (4
3659004| High rates of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon have the potential to alter the storage and cycling of carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) across this region. To investigate the impacts of deforestation, we quantified total aboveground biomass (TAGB), aboveground and soil pools of C and N, and soil N availability along a land-use gradient in Rondnia, Brazil, that included standing primary forest, slashed primary and secondary forest, shifting cultivation, and pasture sites. TAGB decreased substantially with increasing land use, ranging from 311 and
41505987|Human-induced climate change is expected to increase both the frequency and severity of extreme climate events, but their ecological impacts on root dynamics are poorly understood. We conducted a 1 - year pulse warming and precipitation experiment in a tallgrass prairie in Oklahoma, USA to examine responses of root dynamics. We collected data in the pre-treatment year of 2002, imposed four treatments (control, 4C warming, doubled precipitation, and warming plus doubled precipitation) in 2003, and observed post-treatment effects in 2004. Root biomass dynamics (for example, root growth and death) were measured using sequential coring and ingrowth coring methods. Treatment effects were not significant on standing root biomass in 2003, although root growth rate was significantly higher in the warmed than control plots. However, in the post-treatment year, the warmed plots had significantly lower standing root biomass than the controls, likely resulting from increased root death rate. Root death rate was significantly lower in the doubled precipitation and warmed plus doubled precipitation plots than that in the warmed plots in 2004. The root: shoot ratio showed similar responses to the post-treatments as standing root biomass, whereas aboveground biomass changed relatively little, indicating that roots were more sensitive to lagged effects than aboveground biomass. Our results demonstrate that root growth and death rates are highly sensitive to extreme climate events and lagged effects of extreme climate on root dynamics are important in assessing terrestrial carbon-cycle feedbacks to climate change.
40296376|Long-term trends including depopulation and shifts in agricultural policies and management have led to large-scale land-use changes throughout the European Alps which are likely to affect the size of carbon (C) stocks of the respective land-use types. This article analyzes landscape-scale changes of C-stocks present in the vegetation in relation to historical land use (1865), current land use (2003), and three contrasting scenarios of future land use (2020) in the Stubai Valley, Austria. Results show that more than 47% of the total valley area and more than 90% of the usable agricultural area have undergone a change in land use during the last approximately 140 years. Changes of land use were seen to peak between 1954 and 1973 and slow down there after. Phytomass and C-stocks in 1865 amounted to 63.1 Mg ha and 30.8 Mg C ha , and increased until 2003 to 75.8 Mg ha and 37.2 Mg C ha, respectively. Evaluations along an altitudinal gradient indicate the highest C gain to be in the sub-Alpine belt (more than doubling of the C-stock) due to the abandonment of pastures and hay meadows. All future scenarios project only a minor increase in phytomass (0.3-2.8 Mg ha) and C-stocks (0.2-1.4 Mg C ha) because major elements of the landscape (forests, rocks, screes) will be either largely unaffected or are unimportant in their spatial extent (built environment).
40296366|We estimated carbon pools and emissions from deforestation in northern Argentine forests between 1900 and 2005, based on forest inventories, deforestation estimates from satellite images and historical data on forests and agriculture. Carbon fluxes were calculated using a book-keeping model. We ran 1000 simulations for a 105-year period with different combinations of values of carbon stocks (Mg C ha1 ), soil carbon in the top 0.2 m, and annual deforestation series. The 1000 combinations of parameters were performed as a sensitivity analysis that for each run, randomly selected the values of each variable within a predefined range of values and probability distributions. Using the simulation outputs, we calculated the accumulated C emissions due to deforestation from 1900 to 2005 and the annual emission as the average of the 1000 simulations, and uncertainties of our estimates as the standard deviation. We found that northern Argentine forests contain an estimated 4.54 Pg C (2.312 Pg C in biomass and 2.233 Pg C in soil). Between 1900 and 2005 approximately 30% of the forests were deforested, yielding carbon emissions of 0.945 (SD = 0.270) Pg C. Estimated average annual carbon emissions between 1996 and 2005, mostly from deforestation of the Chaco dry forests, were 20,875 (SD = 6,156) Gg C y 1 (1 Gg = 10  Pg). These values represent the largest source of carbon from land-cover change in the extra-tropical southern hemisphere, between 0.9 and 2.7% of the global carbon emissions from deforestation, and approximately 10% of carbon emissions from the Brazilian Amazon. Deforestation, which has accelerated during the last decades as a result of modern agriculture expansion, represents a major national source of greenhouse gases and the second emission source, after fossil fuel consumption by fixed sources. We conclude that Argentine forests are an important carbon pool and emission source that need more attention for accurate global estimates, and seasonally dry forest deforestation is a key component of the Argentine carbon cycle.
3658765|Phenology of organismal development varies between growing seasons according to the weather and also varies within growing seasons across topoclimatic gradients. Combining these factors is necessary to predict landscape-level patterns of phenology and their consequences for population dynamics. We developed a model on a Geographic Information System (GIS) that predicts phenology of adult emergence of the threatened Bay checkerspot butterfly across complex terrain under variable weather. Physiological time was modeled by accumulated slope-specific direct insolation. Insolation sums through growing seasons were calculated for each cell of a digital terrain model (skipping over cloudy days) until a threshold for adult emergence was reached. Emergence times of adult butterflies for a given year were then mapped out across a 100-ha area. To generate predicted emergence curves for the population in a given year, these maps of emergence times were then modified by incorporating microdistributions of postdiapause larvae. Different larval microdistributions changed both the magnitude and shape of emergence curves under the same yearly weather and could change mean population-wide emergence dates by 11 days. Reproductive success in this butterfly is strongly dependent on the timing of adult emergence, and these models provide insights into the effects of weather, topography, and population history on population dynamics. Because adult emergence phenology is often a key component of reproductive success for insects, understanding the components of phenological variation in space and time in complex terrain may provide insights into population dynamics for management of pests and conservation of rare species.
3658776|Nitrogen (N) was added for 35 days in the form of
3658879| We examined the changes in four intertidal macroalgal assemblages sampled at 3-month intervals during and after the 1997-98 El Nio. The assemblages were analyzed using several numerical analyses (specific richness, H diversity) and multivariate techniques (ANOSIM, cluster, and MDS analyses). During El Nio 1997-98, the water temperature in the sampled zone was almost 5C above the long-term mean. The apparent impact of this factor was greatest in winter-spring 1998. Our results suggest that El Nio influenced the structure of these assemblages in four different ways: (a) El Nio was associated with number of species (lowest in 1998) and H diversity, which increased in the winter of 1999, when the El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) was inactive, from 1.2 to 2.3. (b) The average biomass of the macroalgae was significantly greater in the ENSO year (139 g dry
40296264|In our previous article (Odion and Hanson, Ecosystems 9: 117789, 2006), we reported that fire severity in the conifer forests of the Sierra Nevada mountains of California, contrary to prevailing assumptions, did not burn with predominately stand-replacing, high severity fire. The reply by Safford and others (Ecosystems, this issue) using a new mapping approach also found this pattern. Their methods identify more high severity fire; however, as we illustrate here, this may be attributed to the different mapping approaches used. We previously also found that condition class based upon fire return interval departure (FRID) was not an effective predictor of fire severity. Safford and others (this issue) concluded that there was a strong correlation between FRID-based condition class and fire severity based upon data from the McNally fire of 2002. The difference between these findings about McNally fire reflects the fact that they combined FRID categories whereas we kept the categories separate. Here, using their fire severity data to evaluate all three fires, we found that severity was not predicted by FRID. Developing a consensus definition of fire severity within the scientific community might help alleviate future contradictions regarding fire effects.
23325680|It has been assumed that plant biomass partitioning to stems and roots at the ecosystem level follows a single strategy according to which the stem biomass scales isometrically with root biomass, a hypothesis known as 'isometric scaling'. In this study, we examined an alternative theory used for plants: plant biomass is allocated preferentially to the plant organ that harvests the limiting growth resource, a theory known as the 'balanced growth hypothesis'. Our objective was to test these two alternative hypotheses across a water availability gradient. We quantified the stem and root biomass in a seasonally dry tropical forest (SDTF) in three regions of the Yucatn peninsula along a precipitation gradient. Reduced major axis analysis showed that the slopes of the relationship between stem and root biomass across the study regions were statistically similar and significantly different from 1.0 (common slope = 2.5), which contrasts with the 'isometric scaling' hypothesis. The allometric coefficient was different between regions along the precipitation gradient, which showed that plant biomass allocation to stems is higher in high than in low water availability regions where biomass is allocated in greater proportions to roots. The stem:root ratio increases following the low to high water availability gradient. Our results showed that plant biomass allocation in the SDTF follows a simple allometric strategy in which greater plant biomass is allocated to stems irrespective of water availability, suggesting to the forest level that plant biomass allocation strategy is invariant across the water availability gradient.
3658991|Increased radiative forcing is an inevitable part of global climate change, yet little is known of its potential effects on the energy fluxes in natural ecosystems. To simulate the conditions of global warming, we exposed peat monoliths (depth, 0.6 m; surface area, 2.1 m
3659034|Flowing waters receive nitrogen (N) from the surrounding watershed and ultimately export much of this N to coastal waters, which in turn can be substantially affected by these inputs. Although the control of N export is complex, for large rivers among-system variation is predicted relatively well by simple models of human activity. Using data from 249 predominantly North Temperate watersheds that varied in size from 0.1 to over
25470349|Long-term prescribed fires have increased woody canopy openness and reduced nitrogen (N) cycling (that is, net N mineralization) in an oak savanna in Minnesota, USA. It is unclear how fire-induced shifts from oak-dominated to C4 grass-dominated vegetation contribute to this decline in N cycling compared to direct effects of increasing fire frequency promoting greater N losses. We determined (1) the magnitude of decline in net N mineralization in oak versus grass-dominated patches with increasing fire frequency and (2) if differences in net N mineralization between oak and grass patches in frequently burned oak savanna (burned 8 out of 10 years on average during the last 40 years) could be attributed to differences in N losses through volatilization and leaching or to plant traits affecting decomposition and mineralization. In situ net N mineralization declined with increasing fire frequency overall, but this decline was less in oak-than in grass-dominated patches, with oak-dominated patches having more than two times higher net N mineralization than grass-dominated patches. Greater net N mineralization in oak-dominated patches occurred despite greater N losses through volatilization and leaching (on average 1.8 and 1.4 g m y for oak- and grass-dominated patches, respectively), likely because of higher plant litter N concentration in the oak-dominated patches. As total soil N pools in the first 15 cm did not differ between oak- and grass-dominated patches (on average 83 g N m), N inputs from atmospheric deposition and uptake from deep soil layers may offset higher N losses. Our results further show that net N mineralization rates decline within 5 years after tree death and subsequent colonization by C4 grasses to levels observed in grass-dominated patches. Although long-term prescribed fires often directly reduce N stocks and cycling because of increased N losses, this study has shown that fire-induced shifts in vegetation composition can strongly contribute to the declines in N cycling in systems that are frequently disturbed by fires with potential feedbacks to plant productivity.
23501505|Invasive plants can have different effects on ecosystem functioning and on the provision of ecosystem services, with the direction and magnitude of such effects depending on the service and ecosystem being considered, but also on the life strategies of the invaders. Strategies can influence invasiveness, but also key processes of host ecosystems. To address the combined effects of these various factors, we developed a methodological framework to identify areas of possible conflict between ecosystem services and alien invasive plants, considering interactions between landscape invasibility and species invasiveness. Our framework combines multi-model inference, efficient techniques to map ecosystem services, and life strategies. The latter provides a functional link between invasion, functional changes, and potential provision of services by invaded ecosystems. The framework was applied to a region in Portugal, for which we could successfully predict current patterns of plant invasion, of ecosystem service provision, and of potential conflict between alien species richness and the potential provision of selected services. Potential conflicts were identified for all combinations of plant strategy and ecosystem service, with an emphasis on carbon sequestration, water regulation, and wood production. Lower levels of conflict were obtained between invasive plant strategies and the habitat for biodiversity supporting service. The value of the proposed framework for landscape management and planning is discussed with emphasis on anticipation of conflicts, mitigation of negative impacts, and facilitation of positive effects of plant invasions on ecosystems and their services.
23501446|Invasive species can alter the structure and functioning of ecosystems and affect the quality of the services they provide. Effects on biodiversity are well documented, but less is known about their impacts on ecosystem functioning and how these change as their populations increase. Invasive oysters, Crassostrea gigas, were added at increasing abundances to two different estuarine habitats (mussel-beds and mud-flats) and biotic and functional changes were assessed after 15 months. Sedimentwater fluxes and benthic turnover rates of ammonium were greatest at medium cover of C. gigas in both habitats, but for silicate they increased with increasing cover of oysters in mud-flats but, by contrast, decreased at the highest cover of oysters in mussel-beds. Community respiration increased with the greatest cover of oysters in both habitats. Biodiversity was increased by C. gigas in mud-flats, but decreased with the greatest cover of oysters in mussel-beds. Assemblage structure differed between habitats and among different covers of oysters and 33% of the total variation in assemblage structure correlated with the variation in nutrient fluxes and concentrations, suggesting possible direct or indirect effects of C. gigas on the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. C. gigas can alter biodiversity and benthic turnover rates of important limiting nutrients, and may therefore affect provision of ecosystem services. Predicting the effects of invasive species requires knowledge of how their influence varies with abundance and among receiving environments.
3658746|Invasions by exotic forbs are changing large areas of North American grasslands, but their biogeochemical impacts are not well characterized. Additionally, although many invasive plants may alter biogeochemistry, an invasive species' effects have rarely been evaluated across physically diverse sites. We sampled nine sites containing the perennial Eurasian forb Centaurea maculosa to determine if this invasive species alters soil C and N pools in native grasslands in Montana, USA. We sampled surface soil in adjacent microsites with C. maculosa and native grasses and analyzed soil C and N pools with slow to rapid turnover. None of the pools evaluated in the laboratory showed significant differences between C. maculosa and grass microsites when analyzed across all sites. Some differences were found at individual sites, but they were infrequent and inconsistent: Four sites had no differences, four had differences in one or two pools with intermediate (particulate organic matter C or N) or rapid turnover rates (potentially mineralizable N), and just one site had differences encompassing pools with rapid, intermediate, and slow (total C and N, silt-and-clay-associated N) turnover rates. Where they differed, pools were usually smaller under C. maculosa plants than under native grasses, but the opposite was found at one site. In situ N availability, estimated using ion exchange resins, was significantly lower under C. maculosa than under grasses at one of three sites sampled. Results indicate that C. maculosa may sometimes reduce soil C and N pools, including those related to N availability, but they argue against generalizing about the impacts of C. maculosa in grasslands.
41413040|Disease ecology has made important steps in describing how epidemiological processes control the impact of pathogens on populations and communities but fewer field or theoretical studies address disease effects at the ecosystem level. We demonstrate that the same epidemiological mechanisms drive disease intensity and coarse woody debris (CWD) dynamics in natural forest ecosystems impacted by an emerging disease. Sudden oak death (causal agent, Phytophthora ramorum) has caused mortality of tanoak (Notholithocarpus densiflorus) on a spatial scale and rate comparable to other major North American forest diseases caused by invasive pathogens. In pathogen invaded stands, mean CWD masses were 22.4 Mg ha of standing dead tanoak (snags) and 11.5 Mg ha in logs compared to 0.27 and 1.16 Mg ha of snags and logs in an uninvaded stand. Within invaded stands variation in CWD mass and accumulation rates were largely driven by the distribution of pre-disease tanoak biomass and the densities of infected tanoak and California bay laurel (Umbellularia californica) which jointly determine P. ramorum sporulation and disease emergence rates. In a narrow range of community and host characteristics sudden oak death can result in woody debris dynamics similar to discrete disturbances such as fire and forest harvest but it is more common to have lower maximum amounts with slower rates of accumulation than these better studied disturbances. Our results indicate that models of CWD dynamics need to integrate epidemiological processes to predict realistic ecosystem impacts and lead to management applications for forest pathogens.
3658867|In 1981, we began to monitor the stream flow and chemistry of 13 first-order basins at the Turkey Lakes Watershed, with the objective of measuring the response of an undisturbed forested ecosystem to acid deposition. There was no trend in total annual precipitation received by the watershed, but the average annual water yield (percentage of annual precipitation) declined over the observation period. The proportion of runoff occurring in different seasons also changed, decreasing in the winter and increasing in the spring. In most streams the concentration of
23328061|Nutrient nitrogen and water availability are co-limiting factors for grassland productivity in the Inner Mongolian steppe. The objective of this study was to evaluate the interactive effects of water and nitrogen (N) addition on soil abiotic factors and soil nematode community composition. A 3-year experiment with addition of water (with and without irrigation simulating wet year precipitation) and nitrogen (0, 25, and 50 kg N ha -1 ) was conducted at two sites in Inner Mongolia with histories of heavy grazing (HG) and moderate grazing (MG). The results showed that HG had several lower nematode ecological indicators; namely, the Simpson index (P < 0.01), maturity index (MI, including free-living nematodes), and plant parasite index (PPI, including plant-parasitic nematodes). In addition, HG had a lower proportion of omnivorespredators and higher proportion of bacterivores (P < 0.01), with reduced soil moisture, total nitrogen and total carbon (C), and increased C/N ratio. A relatively low addition of N did not influence soil total carbon and total nitrogen and had only a slight effect on the composition and structure of the soil nematode community. Water addition increased the proportion of plant parasites, reduced the proportion of bacterivores and omnivores-predators and increased the soil total carbon and total nitrogen. Redundancy analysis revealed that grazing history alone explained more variation in nematode taxon composition (17.4%, P < 0.01) and PPI (35.6%, P < 0.01) and MI (17.5%, P < 0.01) and Simpson index (10.5%, P < 0.01). Water addition explained more variation in the nematode feeding group (24.4%, P < 0.01), total nematodes (7.9%, P < 0.01) and PPI (78.7%, P < 0.01). Nitrogen addition explained variation in the nematode taxon composition (6.2%, P < 0.01). These results suggested that HG caused soil degradation, and water addition facilitated plant parasites and enhanced soil properties, whereas application of small amounts of nitrogen to N-limited semiarid grasslands did not induce clear changes in this system in the short term.
3658695|Leaching losses of nitrate from forests can have potentially serious consequences for soils and receiving waters. In this study, based on extensive sampling of forested watersheds in the Catskill Mountains of New York State, we examine the relationships among stream chemistry, the properties of the forest floor, and the tree species composition of watersheds. We report the first evidence from North America that nitrate export from forested watersheds is strongly influenced by the carbon:nitrogen (C:N) ratio of the watershed soils. We also show that variation in soil C:N ratio is associated with variation in tree species composition. This implies that N retention and release in forested watersheds is regulated at least in part by tree species composition and that changes in species composition caused by introduced pests, climate change, or forest management could affect the capacity of a forest ecosystem to retain atmospherically deposited N.
25470374|We investigated the influence of landscape-level variation in soil fertility and topographic position on leaf litter nutrient dynamics in a tropical rain forest in Costa Rica. We sampled across the three main edaphic conditions (ultisol slope, ultisol plateau, and inceptisol) to determine the effect of soil nutrients on leaf litter nutrient concentrations while controlling for topography, and to examine topographic effects while controlling for soil nutrients. Both leaf litter macronutrient [phosphorus (P), nitrogen (N), sulfur (S), calcium (Ca), potassium (K), magnesium (Mg)] and micronutrient concentrations were quantified throughout a 4-year period. Leaf litter [P], [N] and [K] varied significantly among soil types. The variation in [P], [N], and [K] was explained by soil fertility alone. Leaf litter [S], [Ca], and [Mg] did not vary among the three soil types. Macronutrient (P, K, Mg, S, Ca) concentrations in the leaf litter were much less variable than those of Fe and Al. Lower variability in essential plant nutrients suggests a great deal of plant control over the amount of nutrients resorbed before senescense. Leaf litter macronutrient concentrations varied significantly over the 4-year period, but the temporal variation did not differ among the three edaphic types as anticipated. Hence, although the magnitude of nutrient fluxes may be controlled by local factors such as soil fertility, temporal patterns are likely regulated by a common environmental variable such as precipitation or temperature.
43677523|Coarse woody debris (CWD, dead wood sections 10 cm diameter) represents a large store of carbon in tropical forests; however, estimates of the flux of carbon from CWD in these forests remain poorly constrained. The objective of this study was to resolve the dry/wet season response of respiration in CWD (Rcwd), and investigate the importance of biotic and abiotic factors for predicting the seasonal change of Rcwd at the ecosystem level. This study presents a 4-month time series of Rcwd measurements conducted on 42 dead trees (26 species) at the Paracou Research Station in French Guiana, Rcwd measurements were repeated 13 times on each CWD sample from July to November 2011, spanning the transition from wet to dry season, and then from dry season to the following wet season. Seasonal drought caused monthly Rcwd to drop by 20.5  5.1% over the wet-dry transition. Changes in woody tissue moisture content explained 41.9% of the measured seasonal variability in Rcwd, but 60% of the seasonal variability in mean forest Rcwd rates could be modelled using surface soil water content. We estimate that Rcwd is approximately 5% of annual ecosystem respiration (Reco) and that seasonal variations in Rcwd contribute appreciably to seasonal variations of Reco, and should be included in functional models simulating the response of tropical rainforest ecosystems to current and future climate.
25470329|The task of modeling the distribution of a large number of tree species under future climate scenarios presents unique challenges. First, the model must be robust enough to handle climate data outside the current range without producing unacceptable instability in the output. In addition, the technique should have automatic search mechanisms built in to select the most appropriate values for input model parameters for each species so that minimal effort is required when these parameters are fine-tuned for individual tree species. We evaluated four statistical models-Regression Tree Analysis (RTA), Bagging Trees (BT), Random Forests (RF), and Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines (MARS)-for predictive vegetation mapping under current and future climate scenarios according to the Canadian Climate Centre global circulation model. To test, we applied these techniques to four tree species common in the eastern United States: loblolly pine (Pinus taeda), sugar maple (Acer saccharum), American beech (Fagus grandifolia), and white oak (Quercus alba). When the four techniques were assessed with Kappa and fuzzy Kappa statistics, RF and BT were superior in reproducing current importance value (a measure of basal area in addition to abundance) distributions for the four tree species, as derived from approximately 100,000 USDA Forest Service's Forest Inventory and Analysis plots. Future estimates of suitable habitat after climate change were visually more reasonable with BT and RF, with slightly better performance by RF as assessed by Kappa statistics, correlation estimates, and spatial distribution of importance values. Although RTA did not perform as well as BT and RF, it provided interpretive models for species whose distributions were captured well by our current set of predictors. MARS was adequate for predicting current distributions but unacceptable for future climate. We consider RTA, BT, and RF modeling approaches, especially when used together to take advantage of their individual strengths, to be robust for predictive mapping and recommend their inclusion in the ecological toolbox.
23501439|Ontogenetic niche shifts are taxonomically and ecologically widespread across the globe. Consequently, identifying the ecological mechanics that promote these shifts at diverse scales is central to an improved understanding of ecosystems generally. We evaluated multiple potential drivers of ontogenetic niche shifts (predation, growth, maturation, diet shifts, and food availability) for three fish species between connected coral reef and nearshore habitats. In all cases, neither diet compositional change nor sexual maturity functioned as apparent triggers for emigration from juvenile to adult habitats. Rather, the fitness advantages conferred on reef inhabitants (that is, enhanced growth rates) were primarily related to high prey availability on reefs. However, there exists a clear trade-off to this benefit as survival rates for small fishes were significantly reduced on reefs, thereby revealing the potential value of (and rationale behind high juvenile abundances in) nearshore habitat as predation refugia. We ultimately conclude that predation risk functions as the primary early life stage inhibitor of ontogenetic niche shifts towards more profitable adult habitats in these systems. Furthermore, this study provides a case study for how complex, meta-dynamic populations and ecosystems might be better understood through the elucidation of simple ecological trade-offs.
25622902|The distribution of plant species in boreal forest understories is hypothesized to reflect mycorrhizal guilds and associated adaptations for organic nitrogen (N) acquisition. In this study of a natural edaphic gradient, where supply rates of inorganic N increase with site productivity, we noted a decline in understory ectomycorrhizal, ericoid, and arbutoid plant communities on productive sites, in contrast to a positive response by most arbuscular species. We then assessed the rate of change in foliar N concentration $({\rm N}_{{\rm conc}})$ and abundance of N (N) of select plants from these mycorrhizal guilds. Two arbuscular plant species (Rubus parviflorus and Viburnum edule) had the sharpest increases in foliar ${\rm N}_{{\rm conc}}$ with enhanced supplies of NH and NO, but with no differences in foliar N. An ectomycorrhizal species, Abies lasiocarpa, and ericoid species, Vaccinium membranaceum, had parallel increases in both ${\rm N}_{{\rm conc}}$ and N with soil N supply. The foliar N of two arbutoid plants (Orthilia secunda and Pyrola asarifolia) were as enriched as ectomycorrhizal sporocarps, likely indicating N transfer from mycorrhizal networks. The depletion of foliar N by ectomycorrhizal and ericoid plants on poorer sites likely reflected a high degree of N retention and photosynthate demand by fungi, whereas arbuscular plants may have had a less significant N response because of a more passive role by fungi in scavenging organic N. The results suggest differences in how mycorrhiza exploit diverse soil N supplies (recalcitrant and labile organic N, NH, NO, and parasitized N) could be an important factor in boreal plant community composition.
40296387|Patterns and controls of annual aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) are fundamental metrics of ecosystem functioning. It is generally assumed, but rarely tested, that determinants of ANPP in one region within a biome will operate similarly throughout that biome, as long as physiognomy and climate are broadly consistent. We tested this assumption by quantifying ANPP responses to fire, grazing history, and nitrogen (N) addition in North American (NA) and South African (SA) savanna grasslands. We found that total ANPP responded in generally consistent ways to fire, grazing history, and N addition on both continents. Annual fire in both NA and SA consistently stimulated total ANPP (28-100%) relative to unburned treatments at sites with deep soils, and had no effect on ANPP in sites with shallow soils. Fire did not affect total ANPP in sites with a recent history of grazing, regardless of whether a single or a diverse suite of large herbivores was present. N addition interacted strongly and consistently with fire regime in both NA and SA. In annually burned sites that were not grazed, total ANPP was stimulated by N addition (29-39%), but there was no effect of N fertilization in the absence of fire. In contrast, responses in forb ANPP to fire and grazing were somewhat divergent across this biome. Annual fire in NA reduced forb ANPP, whereas grazing increased forb ANPP, but neither response was evident in SA. Thus, despite a consistent response in total ANPP, divergent responses in forb ANPP suggest that other aspects of community structure and ecosystem functioning differ in important ways between these mesic savanna grasslands.
3658730|This paper examines the functional relationships among species in an Australian rangeland community with mixed life forms. It follows a previous study (Walker and others 1999) that explored the role of dominant and minor species in maintaining functional diversity and resilience in a rangeland ecosystem. Unlike our previous results, which were based on estimates of five plant functional attributes, the dominant species in this second community apparently are functionally no more dissimilar to each other than to all other species. We suggest that the lack of clear results in mixed life form communities represents a confounding of the relationships between the "hard" attributes that actually govern how a plant performs in an ecosystem and the "soft" attributes that we use as surrogates. There are very few data on the hard functional attributes of plant species and consequently little information on precisely how the (soft) measurable traits are related to their imputed functions. What evidence there is shows that although the relationships are strong within life forms, they differ between life forms. This poses a problem for the development of research relating plant biodiversity to ecosystem function. Until such a database is developed, it will be very difficult to advance our understanding and measurement of functional diversity in mixed life form communities.
3658766| The hydraulic residence time (or flushing rate of water) is a key variable for any aquatic ecosystem and is used in many types of models and calculations. Rather than being measured directly, the hydraulic residence time is usually inferred from estimates of watershed size, precipitation, and water yield. Such estimates can be problematic in any environment but are especially so in environments in which flat or complex topography makes delineations of mapped watershed boundaries difficult to discern. We added lithium bromide, (LiBr) to three small seepage lakes in the flat topography of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to provide an independent estimate of the water residence time. Water residence time [volume/(outflow + evaporation)] averaged 921  381 (SD) days among lakes and years and ranged from 400 to 1661 days at the extremes. This variation was not clearly related to year-to-year variation in precipitation, which was relatively constant [
23328055|Tropical forests determine global biogeochemical cycles to a large extent, but control factors for key ecosystem processes such as decomposition remain poorly understood. With a full-factorial C (cellulose), N (urea), and P (phosphate) fertilization experiment, we tested the relative importance of C and nutrient limitation on litter decomposition in a mature lowland moist forest of French Guiana. Despite the previously demonstrated litter C quality control over decomposition and the very low soil P content (0.1 mg g -1 of soil) at our study site, fertilization with C or P alone did not increase the decomposition of a wide range of litter types (N:P ratios between 20 and 80). Nitrogen fertilization alone also had no effect on decomposition. However, the combined fertilization with N and P resulted in up to 33.5% more initial litter mass lost, with an increasing effect with wider litter N:P ratios. Soil fauna strongly stimulated litter mass loss and enhanced nutrient fertilization effects. Moreover, nutrient effects on decomposition increased with additional C fertilization in the presence of fauna. Our results suggest that increased N availability is required for a positive P effect on decomposition in the studied P-poor tropical forest. Further stimulation of decomposition by C amendment through priming indicates energy limitation of decomposers that is co-determined by nutrient availability. The demonstrated intricate control of the key resources C, N, and P on decomposition calls for an intensified research effort on multiple resource limitation on key processes in tropical forests and how they change under multiple human impacts.
27823658|In brackish lagoons, Daphnia is replaced by calanoid copepods (Eurytemora affinis, Acartia spp.) and rotifers when a certain threshold (depending on, for instance, fish density) is reached. We hypothesize that loss of Daphnia induces a regime shift from clear to turbid at high nutrient concentrations. We conducted a factorial designed enclosure experiment with contrasting salinities (016), low fish predation (one three-spined stickleback, Gasterosteus aculeatus, m2) and three levels of nutrient loading in a shallow brackish lagoon. A change point analysis suggests a strong regime shift from a clear to a turbid state at 68 salinity at low and high loading, but not for the control. From the low to the high salt regime, chlorophyll a (Chla), Chla:total phosphorus (TP) and Chla:total nitrogen (TN) ratios shifted highly significantly for all nutrient treatments, and the bacterioplankton production followed the changes in Chla. These changes occurred parallel with a shift from cladoceran and cyclopoid copepod to rotifer dominance. Monitoring data from 60 Danish brackish lagoons show increasing Chla with increasing TP and TN as well as interactive effects of TN and salinity, peaking at intermediate salinity. A relatively weak effect of salinity at low nutrient concentrations and the stronger effect at intermediate high salinity are in accordance with the experimental results. However, these data suggest a lower salinity threshold than in the experiment, which may be explained by a higher fish density. Our results have implications for the management of coastal lagoons both at present and in a future (predicted) warmer climate: (1) improved water quality can be obtained by reducing the nutrient loading or enhancing the freshwater input to a level triggering a shift to Daphnia dominance (typically <2), (2) fish manipulation is probably not a useful tool for brackish lagoons, unless the salinity is below the threshold for a potential shift to a clear Daphnia dominated state, and (3) more abrupt changes will expectedly occur in low-saline coastal lagoons at increasing salinity during summer in a future warmer climate.
40296282|We investigated the linkages between leaf litter quality and decomposability in a savanna plant community dominated by palatable-spinescent tree species. We measured: (1) leaf litter decomposability across five woody species that differ in leaf chemistry; (2) mass decomposition, nitrogen (N); and carbon (C) dynamics in leaf litter of a staple browse species (Acacia nigrescens) as well as (3) variation in litter composition across six sites that experienced very different histories of attack from large herbivores. All decomposition trials included litter bags filled with chopped straw to control for variation in site effects. We found a positive relationship between litter quality and decomposability, but we also found that Acacia and straw litter mass remaining did not significantly vary between heavily and lightly browsed sites. This is despite the fact that both the quality and composition of litter returned to the soil were significantly different across sites. We observed greater N resorption from senescing Acacia leaves at heavily browsed sites, which in turn contributed to increase the C: N ratio of leaf litter and caused greater litter N immobilization over time. This, together with the significantly lower tree- and herb-leaf litter mass beneath heavily browsed trees, should negatively affect decomposition rates. However, estimated dung and urine N deposition from both browsers and grazers was significantly greater at high- than at low-herbivory sites. We hypothesize that N inputs from dung and urine boost litter N mineralization and decomposition (especially following seasonal rainfall events), and thereby offset the effects of poor leaf litter quality at chronically browsed sites.
41505895|We tested the hypothesis that the carcasses of anadromous Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) constitute a significant source of nutrients in the nutrient-poor freshwaters where these fish migrate, spawn, senesce, and die. In a 110 m-long stream reach in Southeast Alaska, we retained nearly 3000 salmon carcasses and compared streamwater nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and the biomass of benthic biofilm in this reach with an upstream reference reach. The study spanned 5 months, bracketed the entire salmon run, and encompassed significant seasonal variation in abiotic stream conditions. Concentrations of dissolved and paniculate N and P followed distinctly unimodal patterns through time, which tracked the abundance of live salmon, and we observed strong predictive relationships between live-salmon abundance and streamwater-nutrient concentrations. In contrast, we did not observe clear relationships between salmon carcasses and streamwater nutrients. Biofilm biomass within our study reaches seemed to more closely track the abundance of live salmon than the abundance of carcasses. The experimental retention of carcasses had a minor or undetectable influence on nutrient concentrations and biofilm within the study reach as compared to the reference reach. We conclude that physical factors such as temperature, discharge, nutrient limitation, and irradiance vary seasonally in ways that maximize the influence of nutrients provisioned by live salmon and minimize the influence of carcass-derived nutrients on the aspects of stream ecosystems that we examined. Overall, our results promote a new perspective on the ecological role of salmon in freshwaters, and contribute to a more mechanistic understanding of how migratory fishes can influence aquatic ecosystems.
3658615|This article reports responses of two different forest ecosystems to 9 years (1988-96) of chronic nitrogen (N) additions at the Harvard Forest, Petersham, Massachusetts. Ammonium nitrate
40296272|Anthropogenic disturbances of forest ecosystems are increasingly recognized as fundamental ecological processes with important long-term implications for biogeochemical cycles and vegetation patterns. This article aims at reconstructing the extent and intensity of the two most common types of traditional forest usesforest litter collecting and wood pasturein the Swiss Rhone valley (Valais) by (i) identifying the spatiotemporal patterns, and (ii) modeling the biomass removal through these practices. Detailed information on agricultural practices and socio-economic context were essential to develop reliable estimates of anthropogenic disturbance regimes. In the Valais, predominately goats and sheep grazed in the forests. The intensity of grazing was a function of the number of grazing animals and the available grazing area. Forest litter was used as bedding for farm animals during the winter. Key factors determining the intensity of litter collecting were the number of animal units, the amount of available substitute products (straw), and the area where litter raking could be practiced. The results show that wood pasture and forest litter collecting were practiced on a significant proportion of the forested landscape in the Valais up to the second half of the 20th century. Until the implementation of forest management plans in the 1930s, almost half of the forests in the study area were affected by wood pasture and/or forest litter collecting. The regulations in the management plans led to an essential reduction of the area available for these traditional practices but likewise to an increased pressure on the remaining areas. The results suggest that the notion of a slow but steady disappearance of traditional non-timber forest uses and the associated effects on forest ecosystems is oversimplified. Quantitative reconstructions of biomass output resulting from these practices confirm the importance of traditional non-timber forest uses for ecosystem development in this region. Furthermore, it is very likely that similar effects have been widespread throughout regions with similar natural and socio-economic context, for example, throughout a significant proportion of the European Alps. This study underlines the importance of environmental history for ecological sciences as well as for forest management and conservation planning.
25470403|Recent projections of climatic change have focused a great deal of scientific and public attention on patterns of carbon (C) cycling as well as its controls, particularly the factors that determine whether an ecosystem is a net source or sink of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO). Net ecosystem production (NEP), a central concept in C-cycling research, has been used by scientists to represent two different concepts. We propose that NEP be restricted to just one of its two original definitions-the imbalance between gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER). We further propose that a new term-net ecosystem carbon balance (NECB)-be applied to the net rate of C accumulation in (or loss from [negative sign]) ecosystems. Net ecosystem carbon balance differs from NEP when C fluxes other than C fixation and respiration occur, or when inorganic C enters or leaves in dissolved form. These fluxes include the leaching loss or lateral transfer of C from the ecosystem; the emission of volatile organic C, methane, and carbon monoxide; and the release of soot and CO from fire. Carbon fluxes in addition to NEP are particularly important determinants of NECB over long time scales. However, even over short time scales, they are important in ecosystems such as streams, estuaries, wetlands, and cities. Recent technological advances have led to a diversity of approaches to the measurement of C fluxes at different temporal and spatial scales. These approaches frequently capture different components of NEP or NECB and can therefore be compared across scales only by carefully specifying the fluxes included in the measurements. By explicitly identifying the fluxes that comprise NECB and other components of the C cycle, such as net ecosystem exchange (NEE) and net biome production (NBP), we can provide a less ambiguous framework for understanding and communicating recent changes in the global C cycle.
27823671|Extensive fires in recent decades in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) garnered much attention for causing a significant decrease in the extent of conifer forest cover. Meanwhile, conifer forests in unburned parts of the GYE have continued to increase in extent and density. Conifer cover increase has been well documented by repeat historical photography, but the average rate of increase and the spatial variation remain unquantified. We examined changes in conifer cover across biophysical gradients in the GYE based on stratified random samples from aerial photographs. The percent conifer cover for samples in 1971 and 1999 was quantified to determine the frequency and rate of conifer cover change. A slight majority of samples (56%) showed no change, whereas increases (22%) were balanced by decreases (22%). However, among samples that were not recently burned or logged, or already closed-canopy, nearly 40% increased in conifer cover, at an average annual rate of 0.22%. We quantified significant variability in the frequency and rate of conifer cover increase across gradients of elevation, aspect, vegetation type, and proximity to nearby conifer forest. The most dynamic locations were low density conifer woodlands on northerly aspects at lower elevations, with average annual rates of increase up to 0.51%. This study is significant because it demonstrates that rates of conifer cover increase vary across biophysical gradients, an important consideration for management of dynamic forest ecosystems. Improved understanding of this variability helps us to better understand what factors ultimately cause conifer cover increase. It is also a critical step towards accurate quantification of the magnitude of carbon uptake by conifer cover increase.
27823706|Gross rates of N mineralization and nitrification, and soilatmosphere fluxes of N2O, NO and NO2 were measured at differently grazed and ungrazed steppe grassland sites in the Xilin river catchment, Inner Mongolia, P. R. China, during the 2004 and 2005 growing season. The experimental sites were a plot ungrazed since 1979 (UG79), a plot ungrazed since 1999 (UG99), a plot moderately grazed in winter (WG), and an overgrazed plot (OG), all in close vicinity to each other. Gross rates of N mineralization and nitrification determined at in situ soil moisture and soil temperature conditions were in a range of 0.54.1 mg N kg1 soil dry weight day1. In 2005, gross N turnover rates were significantly higher at the UG79 plot than at the UG99 plot, which in turn had significantly higher gross N turnover rates than the WG and OG plots. The WG and the OG plot were not significantly different in gross ammonification and in gross nitrification rates. Site differences in SOC content, bulk density and texture could explain only less than 15% of the observed site differences in gross N turnover rates. N2O and NOx flux rates were very low during both growing seasons. No significant differences in N trace gas fluxes were found between plots. Mean values of N2O fluxes varied between 0.39 and 1.60 g N2O-N m2 h1, equivalent to 0.030.14 kg N2O-N ha1 y1, and were considerably lower than previously reported for the same region. NOx flux rates ranged between 0.16 and 0.48 g NOx-N m2 h1, equivalent to 0.010.04 kg NOx-N ha1 y1, respectively. N2O fluxes were significantly correlated with soil temperature and soil moisture. The correlations, however, explained only less than 20% of the flux variance.
41505988|Ecological trade-offs by organisms to minimize mortality and maximize growth is a foundational theme in ecology. Yet, these trade-offs are rarely examined within spatially complex, temporally variable ecosystems, such as floodplain rivers. Here, we evaluate ecological trade-offs across space and time for the bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus) in two unregulated river ecosystems in southeastern USA. Life-history differences among spatially segregated main channel and floodplain lake populations were used to assess effects of habitat type on bluegill fitness. Growth, condition, and gonadal somatic index were all significantly enhanced in floodplain lakes relative to the main channel. Furthermore, stomach fullness was significantly higher, and predator densities significantly lower in floodplain lakes thereby providing an ecological explanation for the life-history plasticity observed across the riverscape. However, historical observations suggested that although floodplain lakes are highly productive for bluegills, they are also prone to complete desiccation by drought approximately every 5 years, revealing the ultimate value of channel habitat, which does not dry, as desiccation refugia. Bluegills are faced with a balancing act associated with variation in foraging opportunities, and risks to prdation and desiccation, that change in both the temporal and the spatial dimensions of floodplain rivers. The differential responses to these opportunities and risks help to explain why both habitats remain actively populated by bluegills, as well as many other organisms, in these and many other natural rivers.
27823766|The fate of terrestrially-derived dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is important to carbon (C) cycling in both terrestrial and aquatic environments, and recent evidence suggests that climate warming is influencing DOC dynamics in northern ecosystems. To understand what determines the fate of terrestrial DOC, it is essential to quantify the chemical nature and potential biodegradability of this DOC. We examined DOC chemical characteristics and biodegradability collected from soil pore waters and dominant vegetation species in four boreal black spruce forest sites in Alaska spanning a range of hydrologic regimes and permafrost extents (Well Drained, Moderately Well Drained, Poorly Drained, and Thermokarst Wetlands). DOC chemistry was characterized using fractionation, UVVis absorbance, and fluorescence measurements. Potential biodegradability was assessed by incubating the samples and measuring CO2 production over 1 month. Soil pore water DOC from all sites was dominated by hydrophobic acids and was highly aromatic, whereas the chemical composition of vegetation leachate DOC varied significantly with species. There was no seasonal variability in soil pore water DOC chemical characteristics or biodegradability; however, DOC collected from the Poorly Drained site was significantly less biodegradable than DOC from the other three sites (6% loss vs. 1315% loss). The biodegradability of vegetation-derived DOC ranged from 10 to 90% loss, and was strongly correlated with hydrophilic DOC content. Vegetation such as Sphagnum moss and feathermosses yielded DOC that was quickly metabolized and respired. In contrast, the DOC leached from vegetation such as black spruce was moderately recalcitrant. Changes in DOC chemical characteristics that occurred during microbial metabolism of DOC were quantified using fractionation and fluorescence. The chemical characteristics and biodegradability of DOC in soil pore waters were most similar to the moderately recalcitrant vegetation leachates, and to the microbially altered DOC from all vegetation leachates.
40296391|Predicting if ecosystems will mitigate or exacerbate rising CO requires understanding how elevated CO will interact with coincident changes in diversity and nitrogen (N) availability to affect ecosystem carbon (C) storage. Yet achieving such understanding has been hampered by the difficulty of quantifying belowground C pools and fluxes. Thus, we used mass balance calculations to quantify the effects of diversity, CO , and N on both the total amount of C allocated belowground by plants (total belowground C allocation, TBCA) and ecosystem C storage in a periodically burned, 8-year Minnesota grassland biodiversity, CO, and N experiment (BioCON). Annual TBCA increased in response to elevated CO , enriched N, and increasing diversity. TBCA was positively related to standing root biomass. After removing the influence of root biomass, the effect of elevated CO remained positive, suggesting additional drivers of TBCA apart from those that maintain high root biomass. Removing root biomass effects resulted in the effects of N and diversity becoming neutral or negative (depending on year), suggesting that the positive effects of diversity and N on TBCA were related to treatmentdriven differences in root biomass. Greater litter production in high diversity, elevated CO, and enhanced N treatments increased annual ecosystem C loss in fire years and C gain in non-fire years, resulting in overall neutral C storage rates. Our results suggest that frequently burned grasslands are unlikely to exhibit enhanced C sequestration with increasing atmospheric CO levels or N deposition.
25053836|Because nitrogen is considered to be the major growth-limiting element in boreal forests, the increasing nitrogen availability from deposition should lead to increasing growth. We have tested this assumption by simulating, with a simple model, carbon and nitrogen development in seven long-term fertilization experiments in three Nordic countries. The only differences between sites in the model are climate, the ambient nitrogen deposition, nitrogen fertilization regimes, and the initial conditions at the start of the experiment. The model simulates the observed stand development well as long as nitrogen remains the limiting factor. The simulated retention of deposited nitrogen is in general low (less than 50%), whereas retention of fertilizer nitrogen is higher. This seems to imply that the higher production in the fertilized stands will not be maintained once the fertilization is stopped. The model results also indicate that the major effect of climate on site productivity is through soil processes, not tree physiology.
3658716|Riparian zones effectively remove nitrogen (N) from water flowing through riparian soils, particularly in agricultural watersheds. The mechanism of N removal is still unclear, especially the role of vegetation. Uptake and denitrification are the two most commonly studied mechanisms. Retention of groundwater N by plant uptake is often inferred from measurements of N in net incremental biomass. However, this assumes other sources of N are not contributing to the N demand of plants. The purpose of this work was to investigate the relative importance of three sources of available N to riparian trees in a desert stream-input in stream water during floods, input during baseflow, and mineralization of N from soil organic matter. Two approaches were used; a mass balance approach in which the mass of available N from each source was estimated, and a correlational approach in which indexes of each source were compared to leaf N for individual willow trees. Total N from all sources was
41505994|We analyzed the influence of above-and belowground factors on the soil microbial community in a Chinese subtropical forest, one of the most diverse biomes in the northern hemisphere. Soil samples were taken at different depths from four replicate comparative study plots in each of three forest age classes (young 10-40 years, medium 40-80 years, old >80 years). Microbial biomass and community structure were then determined using phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis, and basal respiration and microbial biomass carbon (C mic ) were determined by substrate-induced respiration. These data were then related to plant community and soil variables using non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis and post-hoc permutational correlations. We found that microbial lipid composition and abundance were not related to forest age class. Instead, microbial lipid composition and abundance were related to factors reflecting primary production, i.e., percent litter cover, percent dead wood cover, and percent tree layer cover. Specifically, the relative abundance (mol fraction) of indicators for arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria were positively significantly correlated with percent litter cover. We also found that the biomass of all microbial groups and total PLFA were negatively significantly related to percent deadwood cover. In addition, pH H2O was the only soil parameter that was correlated significantly to microbial biomass. Our results indicate that overarching ecological factors such as plant productivity and soil pH are important factors influencing the soil microbial community, both in terms of biomass and of community composition in this subtropical ecosystem.
40928239|Invasion of exotic forest pests and pathogens is a serious environmental problem for many forests throughout the world, and has been especially damaging to forests of eastern North America. We studied the impacts of an exotic pest/pathogen complex, the beech bark disease (BBD), in the Catskill Mountains of New York State, USA. In this region, BBD has caused a decline in the basal area of American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) over the last 60 years and this decline has been accompanied by an increase in the basal area of sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.). We studied the impacts of the BBD on carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycling using a series of stands that represented a sequence of disease impact and beech replacement by sugar maple. Our study showed that these longterm changes in tree species composition can lead to important changes in C and N cycling in the ecosystem, including an increase in litter decomposition, a decrease in soil C:N ratio, and an increase in extractable nitrate in the soil and nitrate in soil solution. Rates of potential net N mineralization and nitrification did not change across the BBD sequence, but the fraction of mineralized N that was nitrified increased significantly. Many of the observed changes in ecosystem function are larger in magnitude than those attributed to climate change or air pollution, suggesting that the impacts of invasive pests and pathogens on tree species composition could be one of the most important factors driving changes in C and N cycling in these forests in the coming decades.
40296301|Bythotrephes longimanus is an invertebrate predator that has invaded the North American Great Lakes and a number of inland lakes, where it preys on crustacean zooplankton. We examined the effect of Bythotrephes on two measures of ecosystem function during a four-month observational study of freshwater lakes on the boreal shield. Bythotrephes-in vaded lakes had significantly lower epilimnetic zooplankton abundance and production compared to reference lakes. On average, Bythotrephes consumed 34% of zooplankton production when it was present in lakes. There was some evidence of changes in the timing of zooplankton production, as well as shifts to cooler, less productive habitats, which may lessen the overall effect of the invader on the transfer of energy to higher trophic levels. We experimentally demonstrated a weak trophic cascade where invader predation reduced zooplankton biomass, and subsequently increased phytoplankton growth. However, the response was small in magnitude and not biologically relevant at the whole lake-scale. The most conspicuous effect of Bythotrephes that we measured was a diversion of energy away from native predators at higher trophic levels.
40296410|Effects of gap-size classes on litter decomposition rates were investigated in a high-elevation forest for 4 years by placing leaf litter of beech (Fagus orientalis Lipsky.), oak (Quercus robur L.), and chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) in (1) a closed canopy, (2) small gaps with a diameter of less than 15 m, (3) intermediate gaps with a diameter of 15-30 m, and (4) large gaps with a diameter of more than 30 m. The leaf litter placed under the closed canopy or within the small gaps decayed more rapidly than those in the intermediate or the large gaps for all three deciduous species. Among the microclimatic and soil factors, soil temperature was most strongly positively correlated with litter decomposition rates, and among the three species, initial lignin concentration was the best predictor of litter decomposition rates. Differences in litter decomposition rates among the four gap-size classes were generally significant, but varied among the three species. Litter with low lignin concentrations tended to be more responsive to canopy openings. Large forest gaps significantly reduced litter decomposition rates in this study by changing environmental conditions, especially by decreasing soil temperature and soil pH which reduced soil respiration rates. These changes may result in reduced nutrient cycling, carbon cycling, and organic matter turnover rates in these forest ecosystems.
3658742| Soil water chemistry and element budgets were studied at three northwestern European Calluna vulgaris heathland sites in Denmark (DK), The Netherlands (NL), and Wales (UK). Responses to experimental nighttime warming and early summer drought were followed during a two-year period. Soil solution chemistry measured below the organic soil layer and below the rooting zone and water fluxes estimated with hydrological models were combined to calculate element budgets. Remarkably high N leaching was observed at the NL heath with 18 and
27823684|Nutrient over-enrichment is a major threat to marine environments, but system-specific attributes of coastal ecosystems may result in differences in their sensitivity and susceptibility to eutrophication. We used fertilization experiments in nitrogen (N)- and phosphorus (P)-limited mangrove forests to test the hypothesis that alleviating different kinds of nutrient limitation may have different effects on ecosystem structure and function in natural systems. We compared a broad range of ecological processes to determine if these systems have different thresholds where shifts might occur in nutrient limitation. Growth responses indicated N limitation in Avicennia germinans (black mangrove) forests in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida, and P limitation at Twin Cays, Belize. When nutrient deficiency was relieved, A. germinans grew out of its stunted form by increasing wood relative to leaf biomass and shoot length relative to lateral growth. At the P-limited site, P enrichment (+P) increased specific leaf area, N resorption, and P uptake, but had no effect on P resorption. At the N-limited site, +N increased both N and P resorption, but did not alter biomass allocation. Herbivory was greater at the P-limited site and was unaffected by +P, whereas +N led to increased herbivory at the N-limited site. The responses to nutrient enrichment depended on the ecological process and limiting nutrient and suggested that N- versus P-limited mangroves do have different thresholds. +P had a greater effect on more ecological processes at Twin Cays than did +N at the IRL, which indicated that the P-limited site was more sensitive to nutrient loading. Because of this sensitivity, eutrophication is more likely to cause a shift in nutrient limitation at P-limited Twin Cays than N-limited IRL.
3658837|The invasion of north temperate forests by exotic species of earthworms is an important issue that has been overlooked in the study and management of these forests. We initiated research to address the hypothesis that earthworm invasion will have large consequences for nutrient retention and uptake in these ecosystems. In this special feature of Ecosystems, we present five papers describing results from our experiment. In this paper, we (a) introduce our experimental approach and conceptual model of how earthworms influence forest ecosystem processes, (b) describe the characteristics of the study areas and earthworm communities at our two study locations, and (c) provide a brief overview and synthesis of the main findings. The most dramatic effect of earthworm invasion was the loss of the forest floor at an undisturbed forest site, which altered the location and nature of nutrient cycling activity in the soil profile. Invasion changed soil total carbon (C) and phosphorus (P) pools, carbon-nitrogen (C:N) ratios, the loss and distribution of different soil P fractions, and the distribution and function of roots and microbes. Response to invasion varied with site characteristics and earthworm species. Our results suggest that exotic earthworm invasion is a significant factor that will influence the structure and function of northern temperate forest ecosystems over the next few decades. Regional evaluations of these forests will need to consider the presence or absence of earthworms along with other important ecosystem drivers, such as pollution, climate, and underlying soil characteristics.
27823760|West Coast prairies in the US are an endangered ecosystem, and effective conservation will require an understanding of how changing climate will impact nutrient cycling and availability. We examined how seasonal patterns and micro-heterogeneity in edaphic conditions (% moisture, total organic carbon, % clay, pH, and inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus) control carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycling in an upland prairie in western Oregon, USA. Across the prairie, we collected soils seasonally and measured microbial respiration, net nitrogen mineralization, net nitrification, and phosphorus availability under field conditions and under experimentally varied temperature and moisture treatments. The response variables differed in the degree of temperature and moisture limitation within seasons and how these factors varied across sampling sites. In general, we found that microbial respiration was limited by low soil moisture year-round and by low temperatures in the winter. Net nitrogen mineralization and net nitrification were never limited by temperature, but both were limited by excessive soil moisture in winter, and net nitrification was also inhibited by low soil moisture in the summer. Factors that enhanced microbial respiration tended to decrease soil phosphorus availability. Edaphic factors explained 76% of the seasonal and spatial variation in microbial respiration, 35% of the variation in phosphorus availability, and 29% of the variation in net nitrification. Much of the variation in net nitrogen mineralization remained unexplained (R2 = 0.19). This study, for the first time, demonstrates the complex seasonal controls over nutrient cycling in a Pacific Northwest prairie.
3658614|Residential development of lakeshores is expected to change a variety of key lake features that include increased nutrient loading, increased invasion rate of nonnative species, increased exploitation rates of fishes by anglers, and alteration of littoral habitats. All of these factors may alter the capacity of lakes to support productive native fish populations. Fourteen north temperate lakes were surveyed to examine how growth rates of two common fish species (bluegill sunfish, Lepomis macrochirus; largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides) varied along a residential development gradient. Size-specific growth rates for both species were negatively correlated with the degree of lakeshore residential development, although this trend was not statistically significant for largemouth bass. On average, annual growth rates for bluegill sunfish were 2.6 times lower in heavily developed lakes than in undeveloped lakes. This effect of lakeshore development on fish growth was not size specific for bluegills between 60 and 140 mm in total length. An index of population production rate that accounted for both the size-specific growth rate and the size distribution of fishes showed that bluegill populations were approximately 2.3 times less productive in highly developed lakes than in undeveloped lakes. Our results suggest that extensive residential development of lakeshores may reduce the fish production capacity of aquatic ecosystems.
3658906|We analyzed data sets on phytomass production, basal cover, and monthly precipitation of a semiarid grassland in South Africa for good, medium, and poor rangeland condition (a) to investigate whether phytomass production per unit of basal cover differed among rangeland conditions, (b) to quantify the time scales of a carryover effect from production in previous months, and (c) to construct predictive models for monthly phytomass. Finally, we applied the best models to a 73-year data set of monthly precipitation data to study the long-term variability of grassland production. Our results showed that mean phytomass production per unit of basal cover did not vary significantly among the rangeland conditions-that is, vegetated patches in degraded grassland have approximately the same production as vegetated patches in grassland in good condition. Consequently, the stark decline in production with increasing degradation is a first-order effect of reduced basal area. Current-year precipitation accounted for 64%, 62%, and 36% of the interannual variation in phytomass production for good, medium, and poor condition, respectively. We found that 61%, 68%, and 33%, respectively, of the unexplained variation is related to a memory index that combines mean monthly temperature and a memory of past precipitations. We found a carryover effect in production from the previous 4 years for grassland in good condition and from the previous 1 or 3S month for grassland in medium and poor condition. The memory effect amplified the response of production to changes in precipitation due to alternation of prolonged periods of dry or wet years/months at the time scale of the memory. The interannual variability in phytomass production per unit basal cover (coefficient of variation [CV] = 0.42-0.50 for our 73-year prediction, CV = 0.57-0.71 for the 19-year data) was greater than the corresponding temporal variability in seasonal rainfall (CV = 0.29).
3658893|Plans for the restoration of aquatic ecosystems are increasingly focusing on the restoration and rehabilitation of self-sustaining native fish communities. Such efforts have not traditionally adopted an ecosystem-based perspective, which considers species as embedded within a broader food web context. In this study, we quantify food web changes in Lake Tahoe (California-Nevada) over the last century based on stable isotope analysis of museum-archived, preserved fish specimens collected during 4 historical periods and under present conditions. We also examine the contemporary food web of nearby Cascade Lake, which is free from most exotic species and contains a species assemblage resembling that of Lake Tahoe prior to historical species introductions. During the last century, the freshwater shrimp Mysis relicta and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) have been introduced and established in Lake Tahoe, and the native top predator, Lahontan cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki henshawi; hereafter LCT), has been extirpated. Isotope analysis indicates that lake trout now occupy a trophic niche similar to that of historical LCT. Fish production has shifted from benthic to pelagic, corresponding with the eutrophication of Lake Tahoe during recent decades. The current Cascade Lake food web resembles that of the historical Lake Tahoe food web. Our isotope-based food web reconstructions reveal long-term food web changes in Lake Tahoe and can serve as the basis for setting historically relevant restoration targets. Unfortunately, the presence of nonnative species, particularly Mysis and lake trout, have dramatically altered the pelagic food web structure; as such, they are barriers to native fish community restoration. Fish community restoration efforts should focus on adjacent ecosystems, such as Cascade Lake, which have a high likelihood of success because they have not been heavily affected by nonnative introductions.
23325687|Forest ecosystems are the most important terrestrial carbon (C) storage globally, and presently mitigate anthropogenic climate change by acting as a large and persistent sink for atmospheric CO 2 . Yet, forest C density varies greatly in space, both globally and at stand and landscape levels. Understanding the multi-scale drivers of this variation is a prerequisite for robust and effective climate change mitigation in ecosystem management. Here, we used airborne light detection and ranging (Lidar) and a novel high-resolution simulation model of landscape dynamics (iLand) to identify the drivers of variation in C density for an old-growth forest landscape in Oregon, USA. With total ecosystem C in excess of 1 Gt ha -1 these ecosystems are among the most C-rich globally. Our findings revealed considerable spatial variability in stand-level C density across the landscape. Notwithstanding the distinct environmental gradients in our mountainous study area only 55.3% of this variation was explained by environmental drivers, with radiation and soil physical properties having a stronger influence than temperature and precipitation. The remaining variation in C stocks was largely attributable to emerging properties of stand dynamics (that is, stand structure and composition). Not only were density- and size-related indicators positively associated with C stocks but also diversity in composition and structure, documenting a close link between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. We conclude that the complexity of old-growth forests contributes to their sustained high C levels, a finding that is relevant to managing forests for climate change mitigation.
3659065|The accumulation and decomposition of coarse woody debris (CWD) are processes that affect habitat, soil structure and organic matter inputs, and energy and nutrient flows in forest ecosystems. Natural disturbances such as fires typically produce large quantities of CWD as trees fall and break, whereas human disturbances such as timber harvesting remove much of the CWD. Our objective was to compare the amount of CWD removed and left behind after clear-cutting to the amount consumed and left behind after natural fires in Rocky Mountain lodgepole pine. The masses of fallen logs, dead-standing trees, stumps, and root crowns more than 7.5 cm in diameter were estimated in clear-cut and intact lodgepole pine forests in Wyoming and compared to estimates made in burned and unburned stands in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), where no timber harvesting has occurred. Estimates of downed CWD consumed or converted to charcoal during an intense crown fire were also made in YNP. No significant differences in biomass of downed CWD more than 7.5 cm in diameter were detected between burned stands and those following a single clear-cut. However, the total mass of downed CWD plus the mass of snags that will become CWD was nearly twice as high in burned stands than in clear-cuts. In YNP, approximately 8% of the downed CWD was consumed by fire and an additional 8% was converted to charcoal, for an estimated loss of about 16%. In contrast, approximately four times more wood (70%) was removed by clear-cutting. Considering all CWD more than 7.5 cm in diameter that was either still present in the stand or removed by harvesting, slash treatment, or burning, clear-cut stands lost an average of
3658902|To elucidate the sensitivity of bog ecosystems to high levels of nitrogen (N) deposition, we investigated the fate of
3658718|Seagrass meadows within estuaries are highly sensitive to increased supplies of nitrogen (N). The urbanization of coastal watersheds increases the delivery of N to estuaries, threatening seagrass habitats; both seagrass production per unit area and the area of seagrass meadows diminish as land-derived N loads increase. The damaging effects of land-derived N loads may be lessened where there are fringes of coastal wetlands interposed between land and seagrass meadows. Data compiled from the literature showed that production per unit area by seagrasses increased and losses of seagrass habitat were lower in estuaries with relatively larger areas of fringing wetlands. Denitrification and the burial of land-derived N within fringe wetlands may be sufficient to protect N-sensitive seagrass habitats from the detrimental effects of land-derived N. The protection furnished by fringing wetlands may be overwhelmed by increases in anthropogenic N loads in excess of
25622898|Reliable soil organic carbon (SOC) stock measurements of all major ecosystems are essential for predicting the influence of global warming on global soil carbon pools, but hardly any detailed soil survey data are available for tropical montane cloud forests (TMCF) and adjacent high elevation grasslands above (puna). TMCF are among the most threatened of ecosystems under current predicted global warming scenarios. We conducted an intensive soil sampling campaign extending 40 km along the tree line in the Peruvian Andes between 2994 and 3860 m asl to quantify SOC stocks of TMCF, puna grassland, and shrubland sites in the transition zone between the two habitats. SOC stocks from the soil surface down to the bedrock averaged (standard error SE) 11.8 (1.5, N = 24) kg C/m in TMCF, 14.7 (1.4, N = 9) kg C/m in the shrublands and 11.9 (0.8, N = 35) kg C/m in the grasslands and were not significantly different (P > 0.05 for all comparisons). However, soil profile analysis revealed distinct differences, with TMCF profiles showing a uniform SOC distribution with depth, shrublands a linear decrease, and puna sites an exponential decrease in SOC densities with soil depth. Organic soil layer thickness reached a maximum (70 cm) at the upper limit of the TMCF and declined with increasing altitude toward puna sites. Within TMCF, no significant increase in SOC stocks with increasing altitude was observed, probably because of the large variations among SOC stocks at different sites, which in turn were correlated with spatial variation in soil depth.
43677527|Emergent aquatic insects can provide inputs to terrestrial ecosystems near lentic and lotie waterbodies, producing ecosystem linkages at the aquatic-terrestrial interface. Although aquatic insect emergence has been examined for individual sites, the magnitude and spatial distribution of this phenomenon has not been examined at regional spatial scales. Here, we characterize this cross-habitat linkage for the state of Wisconsin, USA (169,639 km). We combined GIS hydrological data with empirical data and predictive models of aquatic insect production to estimate annual aquatic emergence for the state of Wisconsin. Total emergence (lentic + lotie) was estimated to be about 6,800 metric tons of C y. Lentic systems comprised 79% of total estimated insect emergence, primarily due to the large amount of lake surface area relative to streams. This is due to both basic ecosystem geometry and the overall abundance of lakes in Wisconsin. Spatial variation was high: insect emergence in southwestern Wisconsin was dominated by streams, whereas for most of the rest of the state insect emergence was dominated by lakes. Lentic inputs to land were highly concentrated (relative to lotic inputs) because lakes have a high ratio of surface area to buffer area. Although less concentrated, the spatial extent of lotie influence was greater: statewide, four times more land area fell within the 100 m buffer zones of streams compared to lakes. Large waterbodies (almost all of which were lakes) were hotspots of insect emergence and input to land. Aquatic insect inputs exceed estimated terrestrial secondary production in 13% of buffer area, and by a factor of 100 or more adjacent to large lakes (>50,000 ha). The model sensitivity analysis showed that the simplifying assumptions and sources of potential error in the input variables had a minor impact on the overall results.
3659064|Ecosystems provide a wide range of services to society. Some forms of use affect the quality of the ecosystem, reducing its value for other users. This leads to a conflict of interest that is often settled through political processes, resulting in some form of regulation. We link theory on ecosystem response to theories from the socioeconomic branches of science to analyze the mechanisms behind two widespread problems associated with such political solutions. First, they often represent a compromise rather than an integrative solution. We demonstrate that, particularly in sensitive ecosystems, integrative solutions yield a higher average social utility and imply a higher ecosystem quality. Integrative solutions require insight into ecosystems responses to different forms of use and a complete overview of ecosystem services to society. Second, there is a systematic bias away from optimal shared use toward activities that are detrimental to ecosystem quality. This bias arises from the fact that utilities depending on ecosystem quality are often shared by large diffuse groups, whereas pollution and harvesting activities can usually be traced to relatively small and well-organized groups. Theory and data indicate that this type of concentrated group is systematically better at mustering political power than large groups, which find it difficult to realize collective action due to what is known in game theory as "free-rider problems." Our analysis suggests that the following three key ingredients are needed to correct the problems of bias and compromise: (a) clear insight into ecosystem dynamic responses to human use, (b) a broad inventory of credible measurements of ecosystem utilities, (c) avoidance of bias due to differences in the organizational power of groups of stakeholders. We argue that good ecosystem models, institutionalized ecosystem valuation, and innovative tax-setting schedules are essential to achieving a socially fair and sustainable use of ecosystems by societies. In addition, we highlight the fact that many environmental problems remain unresolved for a long time and briefly identify the social mechanisms responsible for this delay.
27823657|Alternative stable states in shallow lakes have received much attention over the past decades, but less is known about transient dynamics of such lakes in the face of stochastic perturbations such as incidental extremes in water levels driven by climatic variability. Here, we report on the ecosystem dynamics of 70 lakes in the floodplains of the Lower Rhine in The Netherlands from 1999 to 2004. In any particular year, most lakes were either in a macrophyte-dominated clear state or in a contrasting state with turbid water and sparse submerged macrophyte cover. Macrophyte dominance was positively related to the occurrence of drawdown, and negatively to lake surface area and mean depth. We did not find a relation with nutrient levels. Remarkably, shifts between the two contrasting states were common, and episodes of low water levels appear to be an important external driver. A dry period before our study and the exceptionally dry summer of 2003 caused wide-spread drawdown of floodplain lakes, resulting in establishment of submerged macrophytes in the next year upon refill. In the 4 years without drawdown, many lakes returned to a macrophyte-poor turbid state. Although some lakes turned turbid again quickly, others took several years to shift into the turbid state. A model analysis suggests that such prolonged transient vegetated states may be explained by the fact that the system dynamics slow down in the vicinity of the "almost stable" macrophyte-dominated state. Such a "ghost" of an equilibrium causes the system to stick around that state relatively long before slipping into the only true stable state. Our results support the idea that transient dynamics rather than equilibrium may be the key to understanding the overall state of some ecosystems. A practical implication of our findings is that artificial stabilization of the water level in shallow lakes may have been an important factor aggravating the permanent loss of submerged macrophytes due to cultural eutrophication.
3658882|The principle of competitive exclusion is a fundamental tenet of ecology. Commonly used competition models predict that at most only one species per limiting resource can coexist in the same environment at steady state; hence, the upper limit to species diversity depends only on the number of limiting resources and not on the rates of resource supply. We demonstrate that such model behavior is the result of both the growth and biomass turnover functions being proportional to the population biomass. We argue that at least the growth function should be a nonlinear, concave downward function of biomass. This form for the growth function should arise simply because of changes in the allometry of individuals in the population. With this change in model structure, we show that any number of species can coexist at an asymptotically stable steady state, even where there is only one limiting resource. Furthermore, if growth increases nonlinearly with biomass, the steady-state resource concentration and hence the potential for biodiversity increases as the resource supply rate increases.
41413037|The biodiversity of plankton ecosystems may no longer be a paradox, but the mechanisms that determine coexistence of explicit competitors in ecosystems remain a mystery. This is particularly so in ecosystem models, where competitive exclusion remains the dominant process. Climate and fisheries models require plankton ecosystem submodels that maintain competing plankton functional types extant, but coexistence can be reproduced in only a few 'just so' theoretical models. This limits our ability to predict the impacts of climate change and fisheries on ocean biota. We consider ecosystems of Kolmogorov form that conserve mass (CK systems). These systems describe a general class of ecosystem models that includes many theoretical and applied models. We develop heuristics that illuminate the key mechanisms that allow the coexistence of explicit competitors in these systems. These heuristics facilitate the identification of a large class of models with the structural property that all species coexist for all time. Our approach unifies many theoretical and applied models in a common biogeochemical framework, providing a powerful tool with the potential to generate new insights into the properties of complex ecosystems.
3658587|The objective of this study was to test for general effects of patch size, patch isolation, disturbance frequency, and patch life span, on density and diversity of organisms. We sampled predominantly herbivorous insects in 31 alfalfa fields that varied in size, isolation, frequency of disturbance by cutting, and age (number of years planted in alfalfa). Effects on insect relative density and diversity were examined at three taxonomic levels: all insects, eight separate orders, and six legume-specialist weevil species. We found that (a) more isolated alfalfa fields had higher overall insect richness, (b) fields with higher disturbance frequency had lower overall insect richness, and (c) fields of intermediate age had highest insect richness. In some cases these patterns were reflected at lower taxonomic levels, but in many cases they were not. These results are important because they indicate that, although we cannot simultaneously tailor a landscape for each of thousands of species, we may be able to produce desired effects at a more general level.
23501500|Understanding the interactions between predators and prey is essential for predicting the effects of disturbances to ecosystems. Motorways produce changes in the surrounding biotic and abiotic environment and hence have multiple impacts on wildlife. Some species are known to change their activity patterns in the proximity of motorways but the implications for the structure of food webs are unknown. This study analyzes the activity patterns of both mammalian predators and their prey species near nine motorways in attempt to clarify how motorways affect the mammalian community. Habitat structural variables were also sampled to control the effects of microhabitat on relative prey abundance. Our results revealed different activity patterns of both predators and prey near motorways that are independent of structural differences in microhabitat. Both the red fox and small mammals were found to use the zone close to the motorways more frequently, whereas lagomorphs and mustelids were less active there. These differences suggest that motorways favor the population of the predator that is most tolerant of human activity, the red fox, whose activity could have both direct and indirect effects on that of other members of the predator and prey community. On the one hand, the red fox seems to act as "top predator" and mustelids to follow a "safety match" strategy avoiding the area close to the motorway where fox is more active. On the other hand, abundances of prey species are negatively associated with the activity of their most frequent predators. This study is the first to assess how the proximity to motorways affects the activity of mammals in two levels of the food web and opens the field for research to understand the processes driving the detected patterns. Moreover, such effects at the community scale should be taken into account when evaluating the impacts of motorways on the surrounding ecosystems.
23325691|The reciprocal effects between sediment texture and seagrass density are assumed to play an important role in the dynamics and stability of intertidalcoastal ecosystems. However, this feedback relationship has been difficult to study empirically on an ecosystem scale, so that knowledge is mainly based on theoretical models and small-scale (experimental) studies. In this paper we apply a non-recursive structural equation model (SEM) to empirically investigate, at large spatial scale, the mutual dependence between seagrass (Zostera noltii) density and sediment texture, on the pristine, seagrass-dominated, intertidal mudflats of the Banc d'Arguin, Mauritania. The non-recursive SEM allows consistent estimation and testing of a direct feedback between sediment and seagrass whilst statistically controlling for the effects of nutrients and abiotic stress. The resulting model is consistent with the hypothesized negative feedback: grain size decreases with seagrass density, whereas fine grain size has a negative impact on seagrass density because it decreases pore water exchange which leads to hypoxic sediment conditions. Another finding is that seagrass density increases with sediment organic material content up to a threshold level beyond which it levels off. In combination with decreasing grain size, accumulation of organic matter creates hypoxic sediment conditions which lead to the production of toxic hydrogen sulfide which slows down seagrass growth. The negative feedback loop implies that intertidal Z. noltii modifies its own environment, thus controlling its growing conditions. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to demonstrate a direct negative feedback relationship in ecosystems by means of a non-recursive SEM.
25470356|In vegetated terrestrial ecosystems, carbon in below- and aboveground biomass (BGB, AGB) often constitutes a significant component of total-ecosystem carbon stock. Because carbon in the BGB is difficult to measure, it is often estimated using BGB to AGB ratios. However, this ratio can change markedly along resource gradients, such as water availability, which can lead to substantial errors in BGB estimates. In this study, BGB and AGB sampling was carried out in Eucalyptus populnea-dominated woodland communities of northeast Australia to examine patterns of BGB to AGB ratio and vertical root distribution at three sites along a rainfall gradient (367, 602, and 1,101 mm). At each site, a vegetation inventory was undertaken on five transects (100  4 m), and trees representing the E. populnea vegetation structure were harvested and excavated to measure aboveground and coarse-root (diameter of at least 15 mm) biomass. Biomass of fine and small roots (diameter less than 15 mm) at each site was estimated from 40 cores sampled to 1 m depth. The BGB to AGB ratio of E. populnea-dominated woodland plant communities declined from 0.58 at the xeric end to 0.36 at the mesic end of the rainfall gradient. This was due to a marked decline in AGB with increased aridity whereas the BGB was relatively stable. The vertical distribution of fine roots in the top 1 m of soil varied along the rainfall gradient. The mesic sites had more fine-root biomass (FRB) in the upper soil profile and less at depth than the xeric site. Accordingly, at the xeric site, a much larger proportion of FRB was found at depth compared to the mesic sites. The vertical distribution patterns of small roots of the E. populnea woodland plant communities were consistently)-shaped, with the highest biomass occurring at 15-30-cm depth. The potential significance of such a rooting pattern for grass-tree and shrub-tree co-existence in these ecosystems is discussed. Overall, our results revealed marked changes in BGB to AGB ratio of E. populnea woodland communities along a rainfall gradient. Because E. populnea woodlands cover a large area (96 M ha), their contribution to continental-scale carbon sequestration and greenhouse gas emission can be substantial. Use of the rainfall-zone-specific ratios found in this study, in lieu of a single generic ratio for the entire region, will significantly improve estimates of BGB carbon stocks in these woodlands. In the absence of more specific data, our results will also be relevant in other regions with similar vegetation and rainfall gradients (that is, arid and semiarid woodland ecosystems).
23501503|In Europe, many contemporary forests are not continuous, but were established on former agricultural land in territories of deserted villages. We aimed to explore whether medieval settlement activities of only 60 years irreversibly changed soil properties and whether these changes were reflected by contemporary forest vegetation. The research was performed in the deserted village of K, which existed from 1357 to ca 1420 AD in a current oak forest on sandy soils in the Czech Republic. We identified four former land-use types (building sites, courtyards, the village square, and gardens), where we analyzed soil properties and plant species composition of the forest understory. Higher concentrations of plant-available P, K, Ca, and Mg as well as the total concentrations of organic C and trace elements (As, Cd, Cu, and Zn) were recorded at former building sites with neutral soils, compared to the other former land-use types with acidic soils. The four-times higher species richness at former building sites compared to the former gardens indicate the strong effect of soil pH and nutrient availability on plant species composition, even on the spatial scale of several square metres. Understanding recent patterns in soil properties and biodiversity in Central European forests requires detailed knowledge of former land use over centuries. Analysis of contemporary soil properties together with analysis of vegetation can help to identify former land-use types in deserted villages.
40296385|The modification of large areas of tropical forest to agricultural uses has consequences for the movement of inorganic nitrogen (N) from land to water. Various biogeochemical pathways in soils and riparian zones can influence the movement and retention of N within watersheds and affect the quantity exported in streams. We used the concentrations of
25470397|From 1993 to 2001, we conducted a series of experiments in a mixed grassland-woodland system in central New South Wales (NSW) to quantify the interactions between red foxes and their prey and competitors. Foxes were removed from two areas around the perimeter of Lake Burrendong, and data were collected from these areas and a nearby untreated area before, during, and after the period of fox control. The arrival of rabbit hemorrhagic disease (RHD) in 1996 provided an opportunity to examine the interactive effects of controlling foxes and rabbits. In this landscape, typical of central NSW, (a) the fox population was not affected by a large reduction in the abundance of rabbits, or vice versa; (b) the cat population declined in areas where foxes were removed after the large RHD-induced reduction in rabbit numbers, but there was no consistent response to the removal of foxes; (c) the abundance of some macropod species increased in response only to the combined removal of rabbits and foxes; (d) there were no consistent changes in the abundances of bird species in response to the removal of either foxes or rabbits, but there were clear habitat differences in bird species richness; and (e) there was likely to be an increase in woody plant species after the large reduction in rabbit populations by RHD. We conclude that (a) long-term field experiments (more than 3 years) are required to quantify the indirect consequences of controlling foxes and rabbits, and (b) single manipulations, such as fox control or rabbit control, are not necessarily sufficient for the conservation of remnant woodland communities in southeastern Australia.
25470415|The Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries requires that managers take account of the environmental impacts of fishing. We develop linked state and pressure indicators that show the impact of bottomtrawling on benthic communities. The state indicator measures the proportion of an area where benthic invertebrate biomass (B) or production (P) is more than 90% of pristine benthic biomass
43677525|The importance of positive effects of ecosystem engineers on associated communities is predicted to increase with environmental stress. However, incorporating such non-trophic interactions into ecological theory is not trivial because facilitation of associated species is conditional on both the type of engineer and the type of abiotic stress. We tested the influence of two allogenic ecosystem engineers (lugworms, Arenicola marina L. and cockles, Cerastoderma edule L.) on the main primary producers (microphytobenthos) of the tidal flats, under different abiotic stresses controlled by reefs of blue mussels (Mytilus edulis L). We added 25,000 cockles or 2,000 lugworms to 5  5 m plots, both in a muddy site with high sedimentation rates located coastward of a mussel bed, and in a sandy site without mussels and characterized by high hydrodynamic stress. After a year, cockles increased algal biomass in the sandy area, but not in the mussel bed site, where high values were measured in all plots. However, lugworms did not affect algal biomass in any of the sites. Field measurements suggest that cockles outweighed negative effects of water currents in the site without mussels by locally increasing sediment stability, whereas mussels overruled the effects of cockles in the wake of the reefs through hydrodynamic stress alleviation and/or biodeposition. Our results suggest that non-trophic interactions by ecosystem engineering bivalves control primary production of intertidal areas, and that the sediment-stabilizing effect of cockles plays a crucial role where the overruling effects of mussel beds are not present.
41507779|Wildfires are an important agent in driving ecosystem function by altering vegetation structure and geomorphic processes. In recent decades, the number of wildfires and the total area burned has increased around the world, causing changes to natural regimes. In this study, we compared southand north-facing slopes, their vegetation structure and dynamics, and the sediment yield generated in areas burned a number of times at the Carmel Mountain ridge in northern Israel. Our underlying hypothesis was that repeated and frequent fires significantly alter eco-geomorphic processes, including prolonged periods of soil erosion and delayed recovery of tree species. We tested whether these phenomenon are characterized by different rates on opposing aspects. To study the long-term changes of the vegetation we analyzed a 21-year (1985-2006) chrono-sequence of satellite images, in areas burned once, twice, or three times. Additionally, we estimated vegetation structure and cover at high resolutions in monitoring plots following a fire in 2005 in areas burned once or twice during the last two decades. To evaluate the long-term dynamics of the system, specific transition probabilities among the vegetation types, as a function of the number of times each site was burned, were used to construct Markov-based transition matrices. Additionally, runoff and sediment have been collected after precipitation events from the plots. The satellite image classifications revealed changes in the composition of tree, shrub, and herbaceous vegetation cover following wildfire events. Satellite image analyses suggest that recurring fires within short-time intervals may significantly alter the long-term structure of the vegetation communities, and may eliminate woody vegetation from the landscape (both trees and shrubs). Consequently, this results in the establishment and dominance of herbaceous vegetation communities. Similar trends were observed in the high-resolution monitoring plots. Sediment yields differed significantly in areas burned twice on south-facing slopes, compared to lower values obtained in areas burned once, or located on northfacing slopes. Thus, we demonstrate that repeated fires may dramatically alter long-term trajectories of Mediterranean-type vegetation communities and ecosystems. This pattern, in turn, may have significant implications for the associated geo-morphological processes, especially runoff and erosion, and should be of particular concern given recent changes of fire regimes.
3658876|In their review of 24 studies of forest nitrogen (N) budgets, Binkley and others (2000) found that only one of them supported the conclusion that an N accumulation of more than 25 kg
41505915|Inorganic nitrogen (N) availability hot spots have been documented in many ecosystems, but major uncertainties remain about their prevalence, timing, and causes. Using a novel mathematical definition of hot spots, spatially explicit measurements of KCl-extractable inorganic N, 2-week soil incubations in the field, ion-exchange resins deployed for 1 year, and a set of associated biotic and abiotic variables, we investigated inorganic N availability hot spots within a 0.89 km alpine-subalpine ecosystem in the Colorado Front Range. Measurements of KCl-extractable NH and NO taken on multiple dates showed that hot spots of N availability were present in some but not all parts of the study site and that hot spot location varied over the course of the season. Ionexchange resins showed that over a 1-year period hot spots were important contributors to resinavailable N at the landscape level, with 14% of resin locations accounting for 58% of total resin-extractable inorganic N. The KCl-extractable and resinavailable inorganic N measurements showed that although spatial variation in the timing of hot spots (that is, hot moments) spreads the influence of short-term hot spots across the landscape to some extent, spatial variation in inorganic N availability is still important when integrated over 1 year. Resinavailable N was poorly correlated with the biotic and abiotic variables that we measured, though we did observe that hot spots of resin-available N were twice as common below tree and shrub canopies than in herbaceous areas. Beyond this relationship with canopy structure, neither KCl-extractable nor resinavailable inorganic N hot spots were closely related to plant species identity. Instead, the most effective predictor of KCl-extractable NH was the size of the soil organic matter (SOM) N pool, with nearly all hot spots appearing in soils that had greater than 1.4% SOM N.
40603647|Ice storms are an important and recurring ecological disturbance in many temperate forest ecosystems. In 1998, a severe ice storm damaged over ten million hectares of forest across northern New York State, eastern Canada, and New England impacting ecosystem processes across the landscape. This study investigated the spatial arrangement of forest damage at the terrestrial-aquatic interface, an ecological edge of importance to aquatic habitat and nutrient cycling. Vegetation indices, derived from satellite imagery and field-based data, were used to measure forest canopy damage across a 2045 km region in northern New York State affected by the 1998 storm. We investigated the forest damage gradient in the riparian zone of 13 stream segments of varying size (92.5 km total length) and 13 lakes (37.4 km of shoreline). Large streams (-fourth and fifth order), occurring in forests that received modest ice damage (< 15% disturbance coverage), exhibited significantly more damage in the riparian zone within 25 m of the water than in adjacent forest sections; F(3,12) = 7.3 P = 0.005. In similar moderately damaged forests, lake shorelines were significantly more damaged than interior forests; F(3,9) = 6.4 P = 0.013. Analysis of transitions in damage intensity revealed that canopy disturbance followed a decreasing trend (up to 3.5 times less) with movement inland from the terrestrial-aquatic interface. The observed predisposition of forest to disturbance along this ecosystem interface emphasizes the role of the physical landscape in concentrating the movement of wood from the forest canopy to locations proximate to water bodies, thus reinforcing findings that ice storms are drivers of ecological processes that are spatially concentrated.
25053854|Over the next century, ecosystems throughout the world will be responding to rapid changes in climate and rising levels of carbon dioxide, inorganic N and ozone. Because people depend on biological systems for water, food and other ecosystem services, predicting the range of responses to global change for various ecosystem types in different geographic locations is a high priority. Modeling exercises and manipulative experimentation have been the principle approaches used to place upper and lower bounds on community and ecosystem responses. However, each of these approaches has recognized limitations. Manipulative experiments cannot vary all the relevant factors and are often performed at small spatio-temporal scales. Modeling is limited by data availability and by our knowledge of how current observations translate into future conditions. These weaknesses would improve if we could observe ecosystems that have already responded to global change factors and thus presage shifts in ecosystem structure and function. Here we consider whether urban forest remnants might offer this ability. As urban forests have been exposed to elevated temperature, carbon dioxide, nitrogen deposition and ozone for many decades, they may be ahead of the global change "response curve" for forests in their region. Therefore, not only might forests along urbanization gradients provide us with natural experiments for studying current responses to global change factors, but their legacy of response to past urbanization may also constitute space-for-time substitution experiments for predicting likely regional forest responses to continued environmental change. For this approach to be successful, appropriate criteria must be developed for selecting forest remnants and plots that would optimize our ability to detect incipient forest responses to spatial variation in global change factors along urbanization gradients, while minimizing artifacts associated with remnant size and factors other than those that simulate global change. Studying forests that meet such criteria along urban-to-rural gradients could become an informative part of a mixed strategy of approaches for improving forecasts of forest ecosystem change at the regional scale.
3658832|A recently identified dinoflagellate, Pfiesteria piscicida, has been implicated as a cause of fishkills in mid-Atlantic estuaries. To date, field evidence supporting this argument has consisted of samples, analyzed for the presence of the toxic Pfiesteria forms, gathered during a fishkill. I present a probabilistic approach to examine the use of this kind of a posteriori information as an indication of cause and effect relationships. The analysis shows that the conditional probability of the presence of Pfiesteria after a fishkill has begun provides little support for Pfiesteria as a cause of fishkills, without also knowing the probability of Pfiesteria's presence under all conditions. Documenting the relative presence of toxic life stages during fishkills and under non-fishkill conditions will provide supporting evidence to assess Pfiesteria's role in fishkills. However, proving that Pfiesteria causes estuarine fishkills using only 'after the fact' information is essentially impossible.
25053828|Rivers and estuaries transport organic carbon (C) from terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems to the marine environment. During this transit, bacteria actively utilize and transform organic C, but few studies have measured detailed spatial variation in rates of bacterial respiration (BR) and production (BP). We measured BP at 39 stations and BR at 12 stations at monthly intervals along a 200-km reach of the tidal Hudson River. We observed strong repeatable spatial patterns for both BP and BR, with rates declining in the downstream direction. Bacterial Production had much greater dynamic range of spatial variation than BR. We used the detailed seasonal and spatial data on BP and BR to measure the total C demand of bacteria at several scales. We calculated volumetric and areal rates for 12 sections of the Hudson, as well as the total C utilization. Volumetric BR averaged 20
25053890|Resilience theory offers a framework for understanding the dynamics of complex systems. However, operationalizing resilience theory to develop and test empirical hypotheses can be difficult. We present a method in which simple systems models are used as a framework to identify resilience surrogates for case studies. The process of constructing a systems model for a particular case offers a path for identifying important variables related to system resilience, including the slowly-changing variables and thresholds that often are keys to understanding the resilience of a system. We develop a four-step process for identifying resilience surrogates through development of systems models. Because systems model development is often a difficult step, we summarize four basic existing systems models and give examples of how each may be used to identify resilience surrogates. The construction and analysis of simple systems models provides a useful basis for guiding and directing the selection of surrogate variables that will offer appropriate empirical measures of resilience.
3658816|Shrubs have invaded extensive areas of grassland in the southwestern United States. The zones of nutrient-rich soil found beneath plant canopies, referred to as "islands of fertility," are more intense and spaced father apart in shrubland than in grassland. This difference in the spatial pattern of soil nutrients may reinforce shrub invasion. Changes in water availability in the soil could also influence shrub invasion. Here we compare the spatial patterns of infiltration, defined as the total equivalent water depth entering the soil following individual rainfall events or summed over many events, at adjacent grass- and shrub-dominated sites in the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge. We use two infiltration data sets. First, following four rainfall events, we measured soil moisture and wetting front depth at 10-cm intervals along 24-m transects. We estimate infiltration from these data. Second, we use vertical arrays of soil moisture probes to compare infiltration between adjacent canopies and interspaces following 31 storms. In both the grassland and shrubland, infiltration is typically greater beneath plant canopies than beneath interspaces. Canopies are oases where soil moisture is higher than in the surrounding areas. However, infiltration is not greater beneath canopies when surface runoff is limited. In the shrubland, the canopy-interspace infiltration ratio increases as storm size, and therefore runoff, increases. This relationship also exists in the grassland, but it is not as strong or clear. The magnitude of spatial variability of infiltration is similar in shrubland and grassland. In addition, the distance over which infiltration is correlated is approximately 50 cm in both environments. Most of the spatial variability exists between the stem and canopy margin in the shrubland and straddling the canopy margin in the grassland. The most notable difference is that subcanopy oases are spread farther apart in the shrubland because canopies are separated by larger interspaces in this environment.
40928211|Many populations are exposed to naturally occurring or synthetic toxicants. An increasing number of studies demonstrate that the toxicity of such compounds is not only dependent on the concentration or load, but also on the biomass or density of exposed organisms. At high biomass, organisms may be able to alleviate adverse effects of the toxicant by actively lowering ambient concentrations through either a joint detoxification mechanism or growth dilution. We show in a conceptual model that this mechanism may potentially lead to alternative stable states if the toxicant is lethal at low densities of organisms, whereas a high density is able to reduce the toxicant concentrations to sublethal levels. We show in an example that this effect may be relevant in real ecosystems. In an earlier published experimental laboratory study, we demonstrated that ammonia toxicity in eelgrass is highly dependent on the eelgrass shoot density. Here, we used the results of these experiments to construct a model describing the complex interactions between the temperate seagrass Zostera marina and potentially lethal ammonia. Analyses of the model show that alternative stable states are indeed present over wide ranges of key-parameter settings, suggesting that the mechanism might be important especially in sheltered, eutrophicated estuaries where mixing of the water layer is poor. We argue that the same mechanism could cause alternative stable states in other biological systems as well.
40928243|In this study, we investigate changes in ecosystem structure that occur over a gradient of land-degradation in the southwestern USA, where shrubs are encroaching into native grassland. We evaluate a conceptual model which posits that the development of biotic and abiotic structural connectivity is due to ecogeomorphic feedbacks. Three hypotheses are evaluated: 1. Over the shrub-encroachment gradient, the difference in soil properties under each surface-cover type will change non-linearly, becoming increasingly different; 2. There will be a reduction in vegetation cover and an increase in vegetation-patch size that is concurrent with an increase in the spatial heterogeneity of soil properties over the shrub-encroachment gradient; and 3. Over the shrub-encroachment gradient, the range at which soil properties are autocorrelated will progressively exceed the range at which vegetation is autocorrelated. Field-based monitoring of vegetation and soil properties was carried out over a shrubencroachment gradient at the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in New Mexico, USA. Results of this study show that vegetation cover decreases over the shrub-encroachment gradient, but vegetation-patch size increases, with a concurrent increase in the spatial heterogeneity of soil properties. Typically, there are significant differences in soil properties between non-vegetated and vegetated surfaces, but for grass and shrub patches, there are only significant differences for the biotic soil properties. Results suggest that it is the development of larger, wellconnected, non-vegetated patches that is most important in driving the overall behavior of shrubdominated sites. Results of this study support the hypothesis that feedbacks of functional connectivity reinforce the development of structural connectivity, which increases the resilience of the shrubdominated state, and thus makes it harder for grasses to re-establish and reverse the vegetation change.
27823708|The boundaries between mangroves and freshwater hammocks in coastal ecotones of South Florida are sharp. Further, previous studies indicate that there is a discontinuity in plant predawn water potentials, with woody plants either showing predawn water potentials reflecting exposure to saline water or exposure to freshwater. This abrupt concurrent change in community type and plant water status suggests that there might be feedback dynamics between vegetation and salinity. A model examining the salinity of the aerated zone of soil overlying a saline body of water, known as the vadose layer, as a function of precipitation, evaporation and plant water uptake is presented here. The model predicts that mixtures of saline and freshwater vegetative species represent unstable states. Depending on the initial vegetation composition, subsequent vegetative change will lead either to patches of mangrove coverage having a high salinity vadose zone or to freshwater hammock coverage having a low salinity vadose zone. Complete or nearly complete coverage by either freshwater or saltwater vegetation represents two stable steady-state points. This model can explain many of the previous observations of vegetation patterns in coastal South Florida as well as observations on the dynamics of vegetation shifts caused by sea level rise and climate change.
25470360|Spatial variability in hydrological flowpaths and nitrate-removal processes complicates the overall assessment of riparian buffer zone functioning in terms of water quality improvement as well as enhancement of the greenhouse effect by NO emissions. In this study, we evaluated denitrification and nitrous oxide emission in winter and summer along two groundwater flowpaths in nitrate-loaded forested riparian buffer zone and related the variability in these processes to controlling soil factors. Denitrification and emissions of NO were measured using flux chambers and incubation experiments. In winter, NO emissions were significantly higher (12.4 mg N m d) along the flowpath with high nitrate removal compared with the flowpath with high nitrate removal compared with the flowpath with low nitrate removal (2.58 mg N m d). In summer a reverse pattern was observed, with higher NO emissions (13.6 mg N m d) from the flowpath with low nitrate-removal efficiencies. Distinct spatial patterns of denitrification and NO emission were observed along the high nitrate-removal transect compared to no clear pattern along the low nitrate-removal transect, where denitrification activity was very low. Results from this study indicate that spots with high nitrate-removal efficiency also contribute significantly to an increased NO emission from riparian zones. Furthermore, we conclude that high variability in NO:N ratio and weak relationships with environmental conditions limit the value of this ratio as a proxy to evaluate the environmental consequences of riparian buffer zones.
23501448|Climate change (CC) is projected to increase the frequency and severity of natural disturbances (wildfires, insect outbreaks, and debris flows) and shift distributions of terrestrial ecosystems on a global basis. Although such terrestrial changes may affect stream ecosystems, they have not been incorporated into predictions of stream responses to CC. Here, we introduce a conceptual framework to evaluate to what extent responses of streams to CC will be driven by not only changes in thermal and hydrologic regimes, but also alterations of terrestrial processes. We focused on forested watersheds of western North America because this region is projected to experience CC-induced alteration of terrestrial processes. This provided a backdrop for investigating interactive effects of climate and terrestrial responses on streams. Because stream responses to terrestrial processes have been well-studied in contexts largely independent of CC research, we synthesized this knowledge to demonstrate how CC-induced alterations of terrestrial ecosystems may affect streams. Our synthesis indicated that altered terrestrial processes will change terrestrialaquatic linkages and autotrophic production, potentially yielding greater sensitivity of streams to CC than would be expected based on shifts in temperature and precipitation regime alone. Despite uncertainties that currently constrain predictions regarding stream responses to these additional pathways of change, this synthesis highlighted broader effects of CC that require additional research. Based on widespread evidence that CC is linked to changing terrestrial processes, we conclude that accurate predictions of CC effects on streams may be coupled to the accuracy of predictions for long-term changes in terrestrial ecosystems.
3658689|Nitrate leaching to streams is a sensitive indicator of the biogeochemical status of forest ecosystems. Two primary theories predicting long-term (decadal) changes in nitrate loss rates (N saturation theory and the nutrient retention hypothesis) both predict increasing dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) losses for watershed 6 (W6), the biogeochemical reference watershed at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF). Measured values, however, have declined substantially since measurements began in the mid-1960s. Are these theories wrong, or are there other important controls on DIN losses at the annual to decadal time scale that have obscured the tendency toward higher losses over time? We tested the individual and combined effects of several forms of disturbance on DIN loss rates from northern hardwood forests by comparing predictions from a relatively simple model of forest carbon, nitrogen, and water dynamics (PnET-CN) with the long-term record of annual DIN loss from W6 at HBEF. Perturbations tested include interannual climate variation, changes in atmospheric chemistry (
3658871|Critical soil acidification loads (CL) and related exceedances, base cation leaching, N leaching, and forest biomass growth were evaluated for a well-studied deciduous forest site within the Turkey Lake Watershed (TLW). The assessment was done by way of steady-state mass balance considerations of primary inputs for N, Ca, Mg, and K. Critical soil acidification rates were found to be high at TLW. These rates amounted to about 900 or 1400 eq/(ha yr) depending on the forest harvesting regime (selective harvest or maintainence of old-growth condition, respectively). The TLW soil substrate (till derived from basaltic bedrock) appeared to weather well, thereby buffering against natural and anthropogenic soil acidification. As a consequence, soil acidification exceedances were estimated to be relatively low for both the selective harvest and old growth scenarios. In comparing overall S and N input/output data (atmospheric deposition data vs soil leaching losses), we found that the TLW site was essentially near or at S and N saturation. We also found that atmospheric deposition and soil leaching rates have been declining since about 1980. The figures for CL and exceedance varied to some extent depending on the quality of input data and related uncertainties. Estimated exceedances were increased when dry- as well as wet-deposition rates were considered. They varied depending on the yearly sulfate/nitrate/base-cation mix, and the definition of "acceptable acid leaching." In addition, they were dependent on whether the forest was considered old growth or not.
41505964|Net ecosystem exchange (NEE) of two contrasting mountain forest types in Switzerland was measured by eddy covariance (EC) measurements at a montane mixed forest, the Lgeren forest, over 5 years (2005-2009), and at a subalpine coniferous forest the Seehornwald in Davos, over 12 years (1997-2009). NEE was validated against annual carbon (C) storage estimates, based on biometrie and soil respiration measurements as well as soil C modeling. There different approaches were used: (1) calculation of net ecosystem production by quantifying C pools and fluxes, (2) assessment of change in wood biomass and soil C storage (C), and (3) application of biomass expansion factors. Although biometric estimates were sensitive to assumptions made for each method applied, they agreed well with measured NEE. Comparing 5 years of EC measurements available at both sites during 2005 and 2009 revealed that NEE, gross primary production (GPP), and total ecosystem respiration (TER) were larger at the Lgeren forest compared to the Davos forest, whereas soil respiration and soil C sequestration were of similar magnitudes. Both sites showed similar annual trends for NEE, GPP and TER, but different seasonal courses, due to different responses to environmental conditions (temperature, soil moisture, and radiation). Differences in the magnitude as well as in the seasonally of ecosystem CO exchange could mainly be attributed to tree phenology, productivity, and carbon allocation patterns, which are combined effects of tree type (broad-leaved vs. coniferous trees) and site-specific climatic conditions. Flux differences between the two mountain sites highlight the importance of considering the role of altitude in ecological studies and modeling.
41413045|Litter decomposition is a central focus of ecosystem science because of its importance to biogeochemical pools and cycling, but predicting dryland decomposition dynamics is problematic. Some studies indicate photodegradation by ultraviolet (UV) radiation can be a significant driver of dryland decomposition, whereas others suggest soil-litter mixing controls decomposition. To test the influence of soil coverage on UV photodegradation of litter, we conducted a controlled environment experiment with shrub (Prosopis velutina) leaf litter experiencing two UV levels and three levels of coverage with dry sterile soil. Under these conditions, decomposition over 224 days was enhanced by UV, but increasing soil coverage strongly and linearly diminished these effects. In a complementary study, we placed P. glandulosa leaf litter in different habitats in the field and quantified litter surface coverage by soil films. After 180 days, nearly half of the surface area of litter placed under shrub canopies was covered by a tightly adhering film composed of soil particles and fungal hyphae; coverage was less in grassy zones between shrubs. We propose a conceptual model for the shifting importance of photodegradation and microbial decomposition over time, and conclude that (1) soil deposition can ameliorate the direct effects of UV photodegradation in drylands and (2) predictions of C losses based solely on UV effects will overestimate the importance of this process in the C cycle. An improved understanding of how development of the soil-litter matrix mediates the shift from abiotic (photodegradation) to biotic (microbial) drivers is necessary to predict how ongoing changes in land cover and climate will influence biogeochemistry in globally extensive drylands.
40296314|We used tree-ring dating and C dating to document the temporal distribution and carbon storage of oak (Quercus spp.) wood in trees recruited and buried by streams and floodplains in northern Missouri, USA. Frequency distributions indicated that oak wood has been accumulating in Midwest streams continually since at least the late Pleistocene, about 14,000 calibrated radiocarbon years before present (cal. BP). The median residence time of an oak bole in the study streams was 3,515 years (n = 200). More than 30% of sampled oak wood entered the floodplain sediments and stream waters within the last 1,000 years, though very few samples dated to the last 150 years. Temporal variability in the record of oak recruitment to streams suggests a potentially strong influence from shifts in climate and fluvial processes, although other possible influences are addressed. Recent human impacts on streams have altered the dynamics of oak input and sequestered carbon with unknown long-term consequences. The long duration of carbon storage (mean age = 1,960 years) in this waterlogged environment appears to be strongly limited by decreasing wood density resulting from reductions in cell wall thickness. Lack of evidence of biotic degradation may imply that wood loss is largely due to abiotic hydrolyses. These findings document a continuous and long-term form of carbon storage that is sensitive to changes in climate and anthropogenic alteration of fluvial processes.
3658770|The problem of multiple scales permeates the study of ecological process and pattern, uniting aspects of space, time, and organizational complexity. In particular, it supports the maintenance of biological diversity, allowing for the magnification of underlying patterns of variation in the physical environment to create many resources from few, through the evolutionary diversification of species' niches and life histories. Specialization to particular stages of a successional gradient facilitates coexistence of multiple types in the presence of uncorrelated local disturbances, such as gap formation, which reinitiate successional sequences. Superimposed upon such successional dynamics are the effects of multiple stable states and multiple successional pathways (Levin 1976), which increase diversity even more. Multiple stable states more generally raise the possibility of sudden flips of systems from one stable configuration to another, and with such changes may come huge changes in the biotic composition. On larger spatial scales and longer time scales, these flips may become correlated, resulting in the transformation of the landscape, or may result in sustained spatiotemporal mosaics of states. Instability at the local level may lead to the maintenance of biodiversity on broader scales. Finally, the ultimate scale mismatch involves that between the dynamics of natural systems and the cultural dynamics of human societies. Our ability to live sustainably in a global commons is dependent upon adjusting normative behavior, and tightening feedback loops more generally, so that individual actions serve the common good.
41505906|Abandonment of arable land is often assumed to happen mostly in marginal areas where the conditions for arable cultivation are relatively unfavorable, whereas arable expansion is expected to occur mostly in areas with favorable conditions. This assumption, used in many land-use change forecasts, was never properly tested, mainly because the relatively short period of full-coverage land-use inventories did not allow a systematic analysis of the phenomena. With the recent release of CORINE 2006 this has changed. In this article, we explore the typical locations of abandonment and expansion of arable land in Europe during the period 1990-2006 by means of logistic regressions. More specifically, we test whether or not locations of abandonment and expansion can be inferred from the location characteristics of arable land in 1990. If the above assumption holds, this should be the case. We demonstrate that although arable expansion indeed happens in locations that resemble the bulk of arable land in 1990 (the presumably favorable locations), arable abandonment does not necessarily happen in locations that resemble the bulk of uncultivated land (that is, the presumably unfavorable locations). In other words, the assumption does not hold. Particularly, areas close to the road network were found to be associated with both high abandonment rates and high expansion rates, which suggest that abandonment is not limited to areas that are marginal in terms of agricultural production.
25622870|High amounts of phosphorus (P) are in soil of former farmland due to previous fertilizer additions. Draining these residues would provide conditions for grassland plant species diversity restoration amongst other ecosystem benefits. Nitrogen (N) fertilization followed by cutting with subsequent removal of biomass has been suggested as a P residue removal method. We present a general model of N and P ecosystem cycling with nutrients coupled in plant biomass. We incorporate major P pools and biological and physico-chemical fluxes around the system together with transfers into and out of the system given several decades of management. We investigate conditions where N addition and cutting accelerate fertilizer P draining. Cutting does not generally accelerate soil P depletion under short-term management because the benefits of biomass removal through decreased P mineralization occur on too long a timescale compared to cutting's impact on the ability of plants to deplete nutrients. Short-term N fertilization lowers soil fertilizer P residues, provided plant growth remains N limited. In such situations, N fertilization without biomass removal increases soil organic P. Some scenarios show significant reductions in available P following N addition, but many situations record only marginal decreases in problematic soil P pools compared to the unfertilized state. We provide explicit conditions open to experimental testing. Cutting might have minimal adverse impacts, but will take time to be successful. N fertilization either alone or in combination with cutting is more likely to bring about desired reductions in P availability thus allowing grassland restoration, but might have undesired ecosystem consequences.
43677526|Coastal ecosystems are energetically connected through passive transport of nutrients but also by migrations of motile organisms. Mangroves are highly productive tropical ecosystems that replenish offshore populations of many species, but we know little about the degree to which this production is fuelled by prey from mangroves, especially in the cases in which mangroves are only accessible at high tide. Different results have been obtained on the importance of mangroves as feeding habitats, confounded by differences in species composition, seascape configuration, and methodology. In the present study, we took a more holistic approach by exploring reliance by fishes on man-groves as a feeding habitat at multiple ecological levels: from individuals to species to communities in mangrove ecosystems from across the globe, using a stable isotope approach. A two end-member mixing model showed a wide range (12-72%) in degree of reliance on mangrove food sources by fishes from different studies across the globe. However, analyzed at the levels of individual fish and species, reliance was low (for example, <25% for 55% of the species worldwide, or <50% for 85% of species, respectively) even though they were collected from sites that differed in geographical location, tidal regime, seascape structure, and species composition. The high fisheries productivity of mangroves appears to be energetically supported largely by food sources from adjacent habitats. In light of the ongoing rapid demise and fragmentation of mangrove and adjacent ecosystems, loss of ecosystem connectivity is likely to affect the productivity and functioning of tropical coastal ecosystems and the services they provide.
25470396|Invasive species have the capacity to substantially alter soil processes, including rates of litter decomposition. Currently, the few remaining native-dominated lowland wet forests in Hawai'i are being invaded by Falcataria moluccana, a large, fast-growing, N-fixing tree. In this study, we sought to determine the extent to which Falcataria invasion alters decomposition in these lowland wet forests, and whether changes resulted from differences in litter substrate type, lava flow age and type, forest stand type and associated soil biota, or some combination of these factors. We measured decomposition rates and nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) dynamics of Metrosideros polymorpha and Falcataria leaf litter in native-dominated and Falcataria-invaded stands on 48- and 300-year-old a'a lava flows and a 213-year-old phoehoe flow in the Puna district of eastern Hawai'i. Despite significant differences in the initial quality of Metrosideros and Falcataria litter, in nearly all cases mass remaining of the two litter types did not differ within a given forest stand, whether native-dominated or invaded. Instead, stand type accounted for large differences in the decomposition of both litter types, and litter decomposed two to 10 times faster in Falcataria-invaded stands than it did in their native-dominated counterparts on each lava flow. Dynamics of N (that is, immobilization or release) during decomposition were affected by stand, litter, and lava flow type; P dynamics were affected by stand and flow type, but not litter type. Although not definitive proof of causality, the decay rates of both species were positively correlated to previously measured inputs of N mass and P mass via litterfall as well as availability of soil N and P, characteristics that all increased substantially with Falcataria invasion. Given the degree of change to a host of ecosystem processes, including decomposition, after invasion by Falcataria, these transformed forest ecosystems may best be viewed as fundamentally new and different, in both structure and function, from the native ecosystems they have replaced.
27823692|Ecological transition zones are increasingly recognized as systems that play a critical role in controlling or modifying flows of organisms, materials, and energy across landscapes. Many concepts describing transitional areas have been proposed over the years, such as the prevalent and durable ecotone concept. Confusion among ecologists and land managers about transition zone concepts and the isolation of studies that use only one transition concept can hinder unified progress in understanding these key systems. Currently, a movement toward conceptual synthesis under the umbrella concept of 'ecological boundary' is underway. Here we examine the history and theoretical baggage of the ecotone, riparian zone, and several other concepts. Subsequently, we present a conceptual cluster analysis, which facilitates a better understanding of the similarities and differences between boundary and transition concepts. We emphasize the hierarchical nature of these concepts: higher-level synthetic concepts can be used in the development of theory, whereas lower-level concepts allow more specificity and the formulation of operational definitions. Finally, we look briefly at the utility and future use of boundary and transition zone concepts.
23253736|In tropical mountains, trees are the dominant life form from sea level to above 4,000-m altitude under highly variable thermal conditons (range of mean annual temperatures: <8 to > 28C). How light-saturated net photosynthesis of tropical trees adapts to variation in temperature, atmospheric CO 2 concentration, and further environmental factors, that change along elevation gradients, is not precisely known. With gas exchange measurements in mature trees, we determined light-saturated net photosynthesis at ambient temperature (T) and [CO 2 ] (A sat ) of 40 tree species from 21 families in tropical mountain forests at 1000-, 2000-, and 3000-m elevation in southern Ecuador. We tested the hypothesis that stand-level averages of A sat and leaf dark respiration (R D ) per leaf area remain constant with elevation. Stand-level means of A sat were 8.8, 11.3, and 7.2 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 ; those of R D 0.8, 0.6, and 0.7 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 at 1000-, 2000-, and 3000-m elevation, respectively, with no significant altitudinal trend. We obtained coefficients of among-species variation in A sat and R D of 2053% (n = 1016 tree species per stand). Examining our data in the context of a pan-tropical A sat base for maturedata tropical trees (c. 170 species from 18 sites at variable elevation) revealed that area-based A sat decreases in tropical mountains by, on average, 1.3 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 per km altitude increase (or by 0.2 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 per K temperature decrease). The A sat decrease occurred despite an increase in leaf mass per area with altitude. Local geological and soil fertility conditions are related foliar N and P concentrations considerably influenced the altitudinal A sat patterns. We conclude that elevation is an important influencing factor of the photosynthetic activity of tropical trees. Lowered A sat together with a reduced stand leaf area decrease canopy C gain with elevation in tropical mountains.
3659042|In western Oregon, forest ecosystem processes are greatly affected by patterns of stand replacement disturbance. A spatially explicit characterization of clear-cut logging and wildfire is a prerequisite to understanding the causes and consequences of disturbance in this region. We analyzed stand replacement disturbance over 4.6 million forested hectares of three major provinces in western Oregon between 1972 and 1995, contrasting the relative amounts of wildfire and harvest in each province and comparing harvest statistics among the dominant land ownership categories. Clear-cut harvest and wildfire occurred over 19.9% and 0.7% of the study area, respectively. The moist Coast Range Province (CRP) was dominated by private industrial (PI) ownerships and had the greatest concentration of cutting. The relatively dry Klamath Mountains Province (KMP) and the climatically moderate Western Cascades Province (WCP) were dominated by public landowners and had lower concentrations of cutting and larger amounts of wildfire than the CRP. Rates of harvest over time generally followed similar trends across landowners; it was lowest in the early 1970s, peaked in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and then decreased to near 1970s levels by the mid-1990s. PI landowners had harvest rates that were about two and one-half times as high as public owners throughout the study period. Public and private nonindustrial (PNI) owners tended to have relatively small cutting units that remained spatially dispersed throughout the study period, whereas the PI owners had larger individual cutting units that tended toward spatial aggregation over time. Comparing the managed disturbance regimes with historical wild disturbance regimes can help us to understand the relative impact of management regimes on ecosystems.
40296413|Deadwood is an important component for conserving carbon stock and maintaining species diversity. Scarce information is, at present, available concerning the amount and composition of deadwood in Mediterranean-type ecosystems. In this study, 21 sites were chosen to characterize different forest types among representative managed and unmanaged stands in the Central Apennines (Molise, Italy). Data were collected to assess living tree and deadwood volumes, and the relative abundance of different deadwood components in decay classes. The information gathered was related to human-induced disturbances on a regional scale. There were substantial differences in the deadwood volumes between managed and unmanaged stands, although this was not the case in the living tree volumes. Deadwood volumes were larger in unmanaged than in managed stands. In particular, large amounts of deadwood were found in managed Mediterranean and Anatolian fir forests, probably due to minimal management practices. Dead downed trees were less represented in managed forests as they are normally removed to facilitate logging activities. Logs occurred more frequently in managed stands as logging residues left on site. Most deadwood material belonged to early decay classes. Proportionally larger amounts of deadwood ascribed to class 1 in managed stands correlated with recent cutting activities. The relatively large amounts of deadwood attributed in unmanaged stands to class 3 demonstrate its longer persistence in unmanaged forests. This study represents a first systematic analysis of deadwood occurrence in a typical Mediterranean forest area, and should be useful in defining important objectives for sustainable forest management.
41505996|We investigated the influence of rainfall attributes on litter decomposition over an 8-year period in a well-preserved tropical dry forest ecosystem in western Mexico. We examined the relationship between the size and number of rainfall events and rainy-season litter decomposition rates and determined if this relationship varied along a landscape gradient. A mass balance approach was used to estimate decomposition rate in four permanent 2,400 m plots located in two small watersheds. Watershed I included three plots in different landscape positions (upper, middle, and lower) in the elevation gradient, whereas Watershed IV included one plot in the middle position. Surface litter C mass was lower in the rainy than in the dry season in all plots in response to seasonal fluctuations in rainfall. The frequency of small ( 5 mm) and medium (5.1-9.9 mm) size rainfall events largely did not correlate with litter decomposition, but the frequency of large events (10 mm) had a positive correlation with decomposition rates (P < 0.05), except in plot IV (P < 0.1). Decomposition rates were similar among plots at the different landscape positions within Watershed I (P > 0.05). The relevance of large rainfall events (10 mm) in rainyseason litter decomposition suggests that changes in the precipitation regime which alter the frequency of these rainfall pulses or increase their variability would affect the vulnerability of the litter C and nutrient pools to extreme events.
40296415|Massive anthropogenic acceleration of the global nitrogen (N) cycle has stimulated interest in understanding the fate of excess N loading to aquatic ecosystems. Nitrate (NO) is traditionally thought to be removed mainly by microbial respiratory denitrification coupled to carbon (C) oxidation, or through biomass assimilation. Alternatively, chemolithoautotrophic bacterial metabolism may remove NO by coupling its reduction with the oxidation of sulfide to sulfate (SO). The NO may be reduced to N or to NH , a form of dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA). The objectives of this study were to investigate the importance of S oxidation as a NO removal process across diverse freshwater streams, lakes, and wetlands in southwestern Michigan (USA). Simultaneous NO removal and SO production were observed in situ using modified "push-pull" methods in nine streams, nine wetlands, and three lakes. The measured SO production can account for a significant fraction (25-40%) of the overall NO removal. Addition of 15 NO and measurement of 15 NH production using the push-pull method revealed that DNRA was a potentially important process of NO removal, particularly in wetland sediments. Enrichment cultures suggest that Thiomicrospira denitriflcans may be one of the organisms responsible for this metabolism. These results indicate that NO-driven SO production could be widespread and biogeochemically important in freshwater sediments. Removal of NO by DNRA may not ameliorate problems such as eutrophication because the N remains bio-available. Additionally, if sulfur (S) pollution enhances NO removal in freshwaters, then controls on N processing in landscapes subject to S and N pollution are more complex than previously appreciated.
25053847|The amount, chemical composition, and source of dissolved organic carbon (DOC), together with in situ ultraviolet (UV-B) attenuation, were measured at 1-2 week intervals throughout the summers of 1999, 2000, and 2001 at four sites in Rocky Mountain National Park (Colorado). Eight additional sites, four in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Park/John Muir Wilderness (California) and four in Glacier National Park (Montana), were sampled during the summer of 2000. Attenuation of UV-B was significantly related to DOC concentrations over the three years in Rocky Mountain
40603614|The seasonality of pan-tropical wet forests has been highlighted by recent remote sensing and eddy flux measurements that have recorded both increased and sustained dry-season gross primary productivity (GPP). These observations suggest that wet tropical forests are primarily light limited and that the mechanisms for resilience to drought and projected climate change must be considered in ecosystem model development. Here we investigate two proposed mechanisms for drought resilience of tropical forests, deep soil water access and the seasonality of phenology, using the LPJmL Dynamic Global Vegetation Model. We parameterize a new seasonal phenology module for tropical evergreen trees using remotely sensed leaf area index (LAI) and incoming solar radiation data from the Terra Earth Observing System. Simulations are evaluated along a gradient of dry-season length (DSL) in South America against MODIS GPP estimates. We show that deep soil water access is critical for maintaining dry-season GPP, whereas implementing a seasonal LAI did not enhance simulated dry-season GPP. The Farquhar-Collatz photosynthesis scheme used in LPJmL optimizes leaf nitrogen allocation according to light conditions, causing maximum photosynthetic capacity in the dry season. High LAI, characteristic of tropical forests, also dampens the seasonal amplitude of the fraction of photosynthetically active radiation (FPAR). Given the relatively high uncertainty in tropical phenology observations and their corresponding proximate drivers, we recommend that ecosystem model development focus on belowground processes. An improved representation of soil depths and rooting distributions is necessary for modeling the dynamics of dry-season tropical forest functioning and may have important impacts for modeling tropical forest vulnerability to climate change.
3658715|Forest growth is important both economically (yielding billions of dollars of annual revenues) and ecologically (with respect to ecosystem health and global carbon budgets). The growth of all forests follows a predictable general trend with age. In young forests, it accelerates as canopies develop; it then declines substantially soon after full canopy leaf area is reached. The classic explanation for the decline in growth invoked the increasing respiration costs required to sustain the larger masses of wood characteristic of older forests. Direct measurements of respiration have largely refuted this hypothesis, and recent work has focused on stand-level rates of resource supply, resource use, and growth. We developed and tested a hypothesis at the scale of individual trees (in relation to stand structure) to explain this declining stand-level rate of stem growth. According to our hypothesis, changes in stand structure allow dominant trees to sustain high rates of growth by increasing their acquisition of resources and using these resources efficiently (defined as stem growth per unit of resource used); smaller, nondominant trees grow more slowly as a result of their more limited acquisition of resources and a reduced rate of growth per unit of resource acquired. In combination, these two trends reduce overall stand growth. We tested this hypothesis by comparing growth, growth per unit of leaf area, and variation among trees within plots in two series of plantations of Eucalyptus in Brazil and by estimating individual-tree rates of growth and use of light, water, and nutrients in a plantation of Eucalyptus saligna in Hawaii. Our results supported the individual-tree hypothesis. We conclude that part of the universal age-related decline in forest growth derives from competition-related changes in stand structure and the resource-use efficiencies of individual trees.
3658890|Black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP) is the most dominant forest ecosystem in the North American boreal region. There are at least two contrasting boreal black spruce forest communities: open-canopy black spruce overstory with Sphagnum ground cover (BSSP) and closed-canopy black spruce overstory with feathermoss ground cover (BSFM). The objectives of this study were (a) to compare net primary production (NPP) and light-use efficiency (LUE) for the two contrasting black spruce communities, and (b) to quantify the contribution of different vegetation strata (bryophytes, understory, overstory, and belowground) to total NPP and LUE in a mature black spruce forest stand in central Saskatchewan, Canada. Total NPP for the BSFM community
23501302|Soil organic carbon (soil C) sequestration in forests is often higher under nitrogen (N 2 )-fixing than under non-N 2 -fixing tree species. Here, we examined whether soil C could be increased using mixed-species plantations compared to monocultures, which are less productive aboveground than mixtures. In addition, we compared soil C sequestration under N 2 -fixing trees with non-N 2 -fixing trees that received N fertilizer. Monocultures of Eucalyptus globulus (E) and the N 2 -fixing Acacia mearnsii (A) and mixtures of these species were planted in a replacement series: 100%E, 75%E + 25%A, 50%E + 50%A, 25%E + 75%A and 100%A. Soil samples were also collected from fertilized monoculture treatments (100%EFer) of E. globulus (250 kg N ha -1 ). Total organic C, N and phosphorus were determined at age 8 years at two soil depths (010 cm and 1030 cm) and three density fractions of soil organic matter (SOM) were quantified for 05 cm depth. Soil C was highest in the 50%E + 50%A mixed stand and was highly correlated with aboveground biomass, not to the percentage of A. mearnsii in mixtures. This was largely due to soil C at 1030 cm because there were no treatment effects on soil C at 010 cm. All density fractions of SOM at 05 cm increased with the percentage of A. mearnsii. In E. globulus monocultures, N fertilization did not increase soil C when compared with unfertilized stands. These results indicate that the inclusion of N 2 -fixing trees into eucalypt plantations may increase soil C stocks through increased productivity.
3659057|Urban ecological systems are characterized by complex interactions between the natural environment and humans at multiple scales; for an individual urban ecosystem, the strongest interactions may occur at the local or regional spatial scale. At the regional scale, external ecosystems produce resources that are acquired and transported by humans to urban areas, where they are processed and consumed. The assimilation of diffuse human wastes and pollutants also occurs at the regional scale, with much of this process occurring external to the urban system. We developed the urban funnel model to conceptualize the integration of humans into their ecological context. The model captures this pattern and process of resource appropriation and waste generation by urban ecosystems at various spatial scales. This model is applied to individual cities using a modification of traditional ecological footprint (EF) analysis that is spatially explicit; the incorporation of spatial heterogeneity in calculating the EF greatly improves its accuracy. The method for EF analysis can be further modified to ensure that a certain proportion of potential ecosystem services are left for in situ processes. Combining EF models of human appropriation with ecosystem process models would help us to learn more about the effects of ecosystem service appropriation. By comparing the results for food and water, we were able to identify some of the potentially limiting ecological factors for cities. A comparison of the EFs for the 20 largest US cities showed the importance of urban location and interurban competition for ecosystem services. This study underscores the need to take multiple scales and spatial heterogeneity into consideration to expand our current understanding of human-ecosystem interactions. The urban funnel model and the spatially heterogeneous EF provide an effective means of achieving this goal.
25622875|The effects of experimental nitrogen (N) additions (0, 12.5, and 50 kg N ha Y) on long-term (12 years) understorey vegetation dynamics were examined in a boreal forest. The results showed that two types of natural enemies of the dominant dwarf-shrub Vaccinium myrtillus (pathogenic fungs of the species Valdensia heterodoxa and herbivorous larvae of the genus Operophtera) influenced the vegetation dynamics. The pathogenic fungus, causing premature leaf-shed of V. myrtillus, showed a strong positive N response during the initial 5-year period. For the larvae, a relatively modest N response was overshadowed by an almost 40-fold population increase during an outbreak event that followed the initial 5-year period. This outbreak occurred irrespective of N addition, resulting in V. myrtillus decline and depriving the pathogenic fungus of its substrate. Hence our study demonstrates that vegetation dynamics in this relatively species poor and seemingly simple ecosystem are driven by complex biotic interactions. Further, we show that an important component of these interactions is the temporal alternation of the two natural enemies and, resultant regulation of the dominant plant's abundance. Finally, we emphasize that long-term data are essential to capture the complexity of this type of biotic interactions. In our case, a short-term study may have resulted in markedly different conclusions regarding effects of N enrichment and the role of biotic interactions for forest vegetation dynamics.
3658682|The objectives of this study were to understand the ecological processes and possible management strategies in desertified shrublands. We hypothesized that biological production and diversity in desertified shrublands in the Negev in Israel are low due to water, soil, and nutrient leakage from the ecosystem. We designed a series of field experiments in order to examine (a) whether source-sink relationships exist between the crusted soil and the shrub patches, (b) whether resources (water, soil, and nutrients) leak from the system, and (c) whether management, which changes the landscape mosaic by introducing new sink patches that reduce leakage of resources, may increase productivity and diversity. The results indicate that the low number of shrub patches, which serve as sinks for resources, leads to water, soil, and nutrient leakage from the ecosystem. This leakage reduces ecosystem production and diversity. We found that artificially created pits, which act as sinks for resources, decrease leakage and increase biomass production and annual plant species diversity. Based on the experimental results, we developed conceptual models for shrubland desertification and ecosystem management. The models are based on a source-sink relationship between two patch types characteristic of shrublands. The models relate landscape productivity to the number of sink patches and suggest that, in cases where there are too few sinks, artificially created sink patches should be added. Management methods were developed to reduce resource leakage in the desertified shrubland of the Negev. Methods included construction of man-made pits in the landscape that add resource-enriched patches to the landscape. These patches are used to create parks consisting of clusters of trees integrated into a matrix of shrubs and herbaceous vegetation. The managed parks are used for recreational purposes and for rangeland.
41505905|Carbon (C) inputs and nutrient availability are known to affect soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks. However, general rules regarding the operation of these factors across a range of soil nutrient availabilities and substrate qualities are unidentified. "Priming" (stimulated decomposition by labile C inputs) and 'preferential substrate utilization' (retarded decomposition due to shifts in community composition towards microbes that do not mineralize SOC) are two hypotheses to explain effects of labile C additions on SOC dynamics. For effects of nutrient additions (nitrogen and phosphorus) on SOC dynamics, the stoichiometric (faster decomposition of materials of low carbon-to-nutrient ratios) and 'microbial mining' (that is, reduced breakdown of recalcitrant C forms for nutrients under fertile conditions) hypotheses have been proposed. Using the natural gradient of soil nutrient availability and substrate quality of a chronosequence, combined with labile C and nutrient amendments, we explored the support for these contrasting hypotheses. Additions of labile C, nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and combinations of C and N and C and P were applied to three sites: 2-year fallow grassland, mature grassland and forest, and the effects of site and nutrient additions on litter decomposition and soil C dynamics were assessed. The response to C addition supported the preferential substrate hypothesis for easily degradable litter C and the priming hypothesis for SOC, but only in nitrogen-enriched soils of the forest site. Responses to N addition supported the microbial mining hypothesis irrespective of C substrate (litter or SOC), but only in the forest site. Further, P addition effects on SOC support the stoichiometric hypothesis; P availability appeared key to soil C release (priming) in the forest site if labile C and N is available. These results clearly link previously contrasting hypotheses of the factors controlling SOC with the natural gradient in litter quality and nutrient availability that exists in ecosystems at different successional stages. A holistic theory that incorporates this variability of responses, due to different mechanisms, depending on nutrient availability and substrate quality is essential for devising management strategies to safeguard soil C stocks.
27823666|Primary productivity on old, weathered soils often is assumed to be limited by phosphorus (P), especially in the lowland tropics where climatic conditions promote the rapid depletion of rock-derived nutrients. This assumption is based on a static view of soils weathering in place with no renewal of the bedrock source. In reality, advection of material through the soil column introduces a spatially variable supply of rock-derived nutrients. This flux is dependent on the residence time of soil, which can range from a few hundred years in rapidly uplifting collisional mountain belts to tens of millions of years in tectonically quiescent tropical cratons. We modeled the effects of tectonic uplift, erosion, and soil depth on the advection of P through the soil column and P availability, calibrating rate of change in biologically available P over time with data from two basaltic chronosequences in Hawai'i and a series of greywacke terraces in New Zealand. Combining our model with the global distribution of tectonic uplift rates and soil depths, we identified tectonic settings that are likely to support P-depleted ecosystemsassuming that tectonic uplift and erosion are balanced (that is, landscape development has reached steady state). The model captures the occurrence of transient P limitation in rapidly uplifting young ecosystems where mineral weathering is outpaced by physical erosiona likely occurrence where biological N fixation is important. However, we calculate that P depletion is unlikely in areas of moderate uplift, such as most of Central America and Southeast Asia, due to the continuous advection of P into the rooting zone. Finally, where soil advection is slow, such as the Amazon Basin, we expect widespread P depletion in the absence of exogenous nutrient inputs.
25470381|Disturbed grassland soils are often cited as having the potential to store large amounts of carbon (C). Fertilization of grasslands can promote soil C storage, but little is known about the generation of recalcitrant pools of soil organic matter (SOM) with management treatments, which is critical for long-term soil C storage. We used a combination of soil incubations, size fractionation and acid hydrolysis of SOM, [C], [N], and stable isotopic analyses, and biomass quality indices to examine how fertilization and haying can impact SOM dynamics in Kansan grassland soils. Fertilized soils possessed 113% of the C possessed by soils subjected to other treatments, an increase predominantly harbored in the largest size fraction (212-2,000 m). This fraction is frequently associated with more labile material. Haying and fertilization/haying, treatments that more accurately mimic true management techniques, did not induce any increase in soil C. The difference in N-enrichment between size fractions was consistent with a decoupling of SOM processing between pools with fertilization, congruent with gains of SOM in the largest size fraction promoted by fertilization not moving readily into smaller fractions that frequently harbor more recalcitrant material. Litterfall and root biomass C inputs increased 104% with fertilization over control plots, and this material possessed lower C:N ratios. Models of incubation mineralization kinetics indicate that fertilized soils have larger pools of labile organic C. Model estimates of turnover rates of the labile and recalcitrant C pools did not differ between treatments (65.5  7.2 and 2.9  0.3 g C d, respectively). Although fertilization may promote greater organic inputs into these soils, much of that material is transformed into relatively labile forms of soil C; these data highlight the challenges of managing grasslands for long-term soil C sequestration.
25622869|A positive feedback between submerged vegetation and water clarity forms the backbone of the alternative state theory in shallow lakes. The water clearing effect of aquatic vegetation may be caused by different physical, chemical, and biological mechanisms and has been studied mainly in temperate lakes. Recent work suggests differences in biotic interactions between (sub)tropical and cooler lakes might result in a less pronounced clearing effect in the (sub)tropics. To assess whether the effect of submerged vegetation changes with climate, we sampled 83 lakes over a gradient ranging from the tundra to the tropics in South America. Judged from a comparison of water clarity inside and outside vegetation beds, the vegetation appeared to have a similar positive effect on the water clarity across all climatic regions studied. However, the local clearing effect of vegetation decreased steeply with the contribution of humic substances to the underwater light attenuation. Looking at turbidity on a whole-lake scale, results were more difficult to interpret. Although lakes with abundant vegetation (>30%) were generally clear, sparsely vegetated lakes differed widely in clarity. Overall, the effect of vegetation on water clarity in our lakes appears to be smaller than that found in various Northern hemisphere studies. This might be explained by differences in fish communities and their relation to vegetation. For instance, unlike in Northern hemisphere studies, we find no clear relation between vegetation coverage and fish abundance or their diet preference. High densities of omnivorous fish and coinciding low grazing pressures on phytoplankton in the (sub)tropics may, furthermore, weaken the effect of vegetation on water clarity.
3658687|We studied the aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) of wheat crops in the Argentine Pampas. Our specific objectives were to determine (a) the response of ANPP to changes in water availability (b) the regional patterns of ANPP and (c) the interannual variability and environmental controls of ANPP. We used ground and satellite data to address these questions. Wheat ANPP was calculated as the ratio between grain yield and harvest index. We developed a simple model that took into account environmental and genetic improvement effects upon harvest index. We used the normalized difference vegetational index (NDVI) as a surrogate for ANPP at the county level. Straight-line regression models were fitted to single-year and average values of ANPP and precipitation to derive temporal and spatial models for wheat. For grasslands, we used spatial and temporal models already published. At any given site, there was no difference between modeled wheat and grassland average ANPP. The response of ANPP to changes in interannual water availability decreased along the precipitation gradient when vegetation structure (for example, species composition, density, and total cover) was held constant (wheat crops). Wheat ANPP and total production variability, estimated from remotely sensed data, decreased as mean annual precipitation (MAP) increased. The percentage of soils without drainage problems was the variable that explained most of the wheat ANPP spatial variability as shown by stepwise linear regression. Precipitation variability accounted for 49% of wheat ANPP variability. Remotely sensed estimates of ANPP variability showed lower and wheat ANPP higher temporal variability than annual precipitation.
40793011|Ecological functions of bioturbation in ecosystems have received increasing attention over the recent decades, and crab burrowing has been considered as one of the major bioturbations affecting the physical and chemical processes in salt marshes. This study assessed the integrated effects of crab excavating and burrow mimic trapping on sediment turnover and vertical and N distributions in a Chinese salt marsh in the Yangtze River estuary. Crab burrowing increased soil water content and the turnover of carbon and nitrogen and decreased bulk soil density. Vertical movement of materials, nutrient cycling and reuse driven by crab burrowing might be obstructed by vegetation (Phragmites australis and Spartina alterniflora communities). The amount of soil excavated by crab burrowing was higher than that deposited into burrow mimics. In Phragmites marshes, Spartina marshes and unvegetated mudflats, net transport of soil to the marsh surface was 171.73, 109.54, and 374.95 g m d , respectively; and the corresponding estimated soil turnover time was 2.89, 4.07 and 1.83 years, respectively. Crab burrowing in salt marshes can mix surface and deeper soil over a period of years, accelerating litter decomposition and promoting the efficient reuse of nutrients by plants. Therefore, bioturbation affects soil physical processes and functioning of ecosystems, and needs to be addressed in ecosystem management.
23501298|Climate change is expected to affect forest landscape dynamics in many ways, but it is possible that the most important direct impact of climate change will be drought stress. We combined data from weather stations and forest inventory plots (FIA) across the upper Great Lakes region (USA) to study the relationship between measures of drought stress and mortality for four drought sensitivity species groups using a weight-of-evidence approach. For all groups, the model that predicted mortality as a function of mean drought length had the greatest plausibility. Model tests confirmed that the models for all groups except the most drought tolerant had predictive value. We assumed that no relationship exists between drought and mortality for the drought-tolerant group. We used these empirical models to develop a drought extension for the forest landscape disturbance and succession model LANDIS-II, and applied the model in Oconto county, Wisconsin (USA) to assess the influence of drought on forest dynamics relative to other factors such as stand-replacing disturbance and site characteristics. The simulations showed that drought stress does affect species composition and total biomass, but effects on age classes, spatial pattern, and productivity were insignificant. We conclude that (for the upper Midwest) (1) a drought-induced tree mortality signal can be detected using FIA data, (2) tree species respond primarily to the length of drought events rather than their severity, (3) the differences in drought tolerance of tree species can be quantified, (4) future increases in drought can potentially change forest composition, and (5) drought is a potentially important factor to include in forest dynamics simulations because it affects forest composition and carbon storage.
41505913|We report on soil leaching of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) along transects across exposed edges of four coniferous and four deciduous forest stands. In a 64-m edge zone, DIN leaching below the main rooting zone was enhanced relative to the interior (at 128 m from the edge) by 21 and 14 kg N ha y in the coniferous and deciduous forest stands, respectively. However, the patterns of DIN leaching did not univocally reflect those of DIN throughfall deposition. DIN leaching in the first 20 m of the edges was lower than at 32-64 m from the edge (17 vs. 36 kg N ha y and 15 vs. 24 kg N ha y in the coniferous and deciduous forests, respectively). Nitrogen stocks in the mineral topsoil (0-30 cm) were, on average, 943 kg N ha higher at the outer edges than in the interior, indicating that N retention in the soil is probably one of the processes involved in the relatively low DIN leaching in the outer edges. We suggest that a complex of edge effects on biogeochemical processes occurs at the forest edges as a result of the interaction between microclimate, tree dynamics (growth and litterfall), and atmospheric deposition of N and base cations.
40296317|Plants across diverse biomes tend to produce smaller leaves and a reduced total leaf area when exposed to drought. For mature trees of a single species, however, the leaf areawater supply relationship is not well understood. We tested the paradigm of leaf area reduction upon drought by a transect study with 14 mature Fagus sylvatica forests along a steep precipitation gradient (970-520 mm y) by applying two independent methods of leaf size determination. Contrary to expectation, average leaf size in dry stands (520550 mm y) was about 40% larger and SLA was higher than in moist stands (910-970 mm y). As a result of increased leaf sizes, leaf area index significantly increased from the high-to the low-precipitation stands. Multiple regression analyses suggested that average leaf size was primarily controlled by temperature, whereas the influence of soil moisture and soil C/N ratio was low. Summer rainfall of the preceding year was the most significant predictor of total leaf number. We assume that leaf expansion of beech was independent of water supply, because it takes place in May with ample soil water reserves along the entire transect. In contrast, bud formation, which determines total leaf number, occurs in mid-summer, when droughts are severest. We conclude that leaf expansion and stand leaf area oi beech along this precipitation gradient are not a simple function of water availability, but are controlled by several abiotic factors including spring temperature and possibly also nitrogen supply, which both tend to increase toward drier sites, thus overlaying any negative effect of water shortage on leaf development.
3658792|Here we report measurements of organic and inorganic nitrogen (N) fluxes from the high-elevation Green Lakes Valley catchment in the Colorado Front Range for two snowmelt seasons (1998 and 1999). Surface water and soil samples were collected along an elevational gradient extending from the lightly vegetated alpine to the forested subalpine to assess how changes in land cover and basin area affect yields and concentrations of ammonium-N ( NH
3658784|The movement of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) through soils is an important process for the transport of carbon within ecosystems and the formation of soil organic matter. In some cases, DOC fluxes may also contribute to the carbon balance of terrestrial ecosystems; in most ecosystems, they are an important source of energy, carbon, and nutrient transfers from terrestrial to aquatic ecosystems. Despite their importance for terrestrial and aquatic biogeochemistry, these fluxes are rarely represented in conceptual or numerical models of terrestrial biogeochemistry. In part, this is due to the lack of a comprehensive understanding of the suite of processes that control DOC dynamics in soils. In this article, we synthesize information on the geochemical and biological factors that control DOC fluxes through soils. We focus on conceptual issues and quantitative evaluations of key process rates to present a general numerical model of DOC dynamics. We then test the sensitivity of the model to variation in the controlling parameters to highlight both the significance of DOC fluxes to terrestrial carbon processes and the key uncertainties that require additional experiments and data. Simulation model results indicate the importance of representing both root carbon inputs and soluble carbon fluxes to predict the quantity and distribution of soil carbon in soil layers. For a test case in a temperate forest, DOC contributed 25% of the total soil profile carbon, whereas roots provided the remainder. The analysis also shows that physical factors-most notably, sorption dynamics and hydrology-play the dominant role in regulating DOC losses from terrestrial ecosystems but that interactions between hydrology and microbial-DOC relationships are important in regulating the fluxes of DOC in the litter and surface soil horizons. The model also indicates that DOC fluxes to deeper soil layers can support a large fraction (up to 30%) of microbial activity below 40 cm.
40603622|Peatland-margin habitats with organic matter accumulation of 40-150 cm make up a significant but poorly quantified portion of Canada's boreal forest region. Spanning the transition between non-wetland forest and fen proper, these ecosystems represent a zone of complex environmental and vegetation change, yet little is known about their ecological function or development. We here use vegetation and macrofossil analysis, traditional C, bomb-spike C, and Pb dating to investigate the development, organic matter accumulation, and recent vegetation history of peat margin communities at two sites in central Saskatchewan, Canada. Although similar in general shape, bomb-spike C and Pb chronologies show limited agreement in three of the four profiles examined, with Pb generally producing younger ages than C. Peat initiation and long-term organic matter accumulation at the Old Black Spruce (OBS) transect were probably by the dynamics of Sphagnum, whereas at the Sandhill Fen (SF) transect, they were controlled by water level fluctuations in the neighboring fen. Bryophyte macrofossils suggest a recent drying of the vegetation surface at both sites, most likely triggered by regional drought in the late 1950s and 1960s. At OBS, the shift from Sphagnum-to feather moss-dominated communities continued in the 1990s, possibly reflecting effects of direct disturbance on local drainage patterns. Overall, our results suggest that community composition and C dynamics of peat-margin swamps respond dynamically to climatic and hydrologie fluctuations. However, uncertainties regarding the reliability of different chronologies limit our ability to link observed community changes to specific causal events.
25053879|Riparian zones associated with alluvial rivers are spatially dynamic, forming distinct vegetative mosaics that exhibit sharp contrasts in structure and processes related to the underlying biophysical template. The productivity of riparian plants, especially trees, influences streamside community characteristics as well as the forms and fluxes of organic matter to adjacent streams - thereby strongly impacting patterns of channel morphology, water flow, sedimentation, and habitat in rivers. As part of a comprehensive investigation of riparian dynamics in coastal rain forest rivers of the Pacific Northwest (USA), we examined riparian tree abundance (density, basal area, and biomass) and rates of production (basal area growth [BAI] and bole wood biomass increase [P]) of seven common species - red alder (Alnus rubra), Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis), bigleaf maple (Acer macrophyllum), western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla), black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa), vine maple (Acer circinatum) and willow (Salix spp.) - in the lowland floodplain of the Queets River (Olympic National Park), Washington. Measurements were made annually for three years (1999 - 2001) in 16 permanent plots on three biophysical templates that formed a toposequence - active floodplain, young terrace and mature terrace. Stem density was highest in the active floodplain (27,000 stems/ ha), decreasing in the young terrace (2,700 stems /ha) and the mature terrace (500 stems/ha). Basal area and total stem biomass were lowest in the active floodplain (16
43677501|The natural abundance of nitrogen (N) stable isotopes (N) has the potential to enhance our understanding of the ecosystem N cycle at large spatial scales. However, vegetation and soil N patterns along climatic and edaphic gradients have not yet been fully understood, particularly for highaltitude ecosystems. Here we determined vegetation and soil N in alpine grasslands on the Tibetan Plateau by conducting four consecutive regional surveys during 2001-2004, and then examined their relationships with both climatic and edaphic variables. Our results showed that both vegetation and soil N in Tibetan alpine grasslands were more N-enriched than global averages. Vegetation N did not exhibit any significant trend along the temperature gradient, but decreased significantly with an increase in precipitation amount. In contrast, soil N did not vary with either mean annual temperature or precipitation. Our results also indicated that soil (N exhibited a slight increase with day content, but decreased with soil carboninitrogen ratio. A general linear model analysis revealed that variations in vegetation N were dominantly determined by climatic variables, whereas soil N was related to edaphic variables. These results provide clues for potential climatic and edaphic regulations on ecosystem N cycle in these high-altitude regions.
23501502|In aquatic systems, light and subsidy input often co-vary along a canopy cover gradient. This creates systems where subsidies are more prevalent in areas with low primary productivity and less prevalent in areas with high primary productivity. We expect ecosystem processes and community structure to respond to these changes in resources. We examined the effects of light and subsidy input (leaf litter) on ponds by placing pond mesocosms along a canopy gradient and manipulating litter input. We then sampled mesocosms for ecosystem and community parameters for 2 years during April (pre-leaf out), July (full canopy), and November (start of leaf fall). Neither canopy cover nor litter input tended to dominate effects overall, highlighting the importance of the light-subsidy gradient combination that is frequently encountered in temperate aquatic systems. Ponds shifted from an autotrophy/heterotrophy balance to net heterotrophy with increasing canopy cover in concordance with our predictions. Although litter input affected dissolved oxygen, we did not detect an effect of litter on trophic state, primary production, or community respiration. We additionally found effects of both canopy cover and litter input on community composition, but very differently than that found in streams. In general, the grazer and shredder macroinvertebrate functional feeding groups were rare in the pond mesocosms, and thus did not respond to treatments. The collector proportion of the community, mainly chironomids, increased with canopy cover and was higher in mesocosms with litter input than those without. Contrary to predictions, there were few differences between subsidy input type (leaves or grass) despite differences in litter quality. This study, along with many others, highlights the importance of canopy gradients in determining ecosystem function and community composition.
27823730|The ecosystems of coastal and enclosed seas are under increasing anthropogenic pressure worldwide, with Chesapeake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico and the Black and Baltic Seas as well known examples. We use an ecosystem model (Ecopath with Ecosim, EwE) to show that reduced top-down control (seal predation) and increased bottom-up forcing (eutrophication) can largely explain the historical dynamics of the main fish stocks (cod, herring and sprat) in the Baltic Sea between 1900 and 1980. Based on these results and the historical fish stock development we identify two major ecological transitions. A shift from seal to cod domination was caused by a virtual elimination of marine mammals followed by a shift from an oligotrophic to a eutrophic state. A third shift from cod to clupeid domination in the late 1980s has previously been explained by overfishing of cod and climatic changes. We propose that the shift from an oligotrophic to a eutrophic state represents a true regime shift with a stabilizing mechanism for a hysteresis phenomenon. There are also mechanisms that could stabilize the shift from a cod to clupeid dominated ecosystem, but there are no indications that the ecosystem has been pushed that far yet. We argue that the shifts in the Baltic Sea are a consequence of human impacts, although variations in climate may have influenced their timing, magnitude and persistence.
43677496|Palsa peatlands, permafrost-affected peatlands characteristic of the outer margin of the discontinuous permafrost zone, form unique ecosystems in northern-boreal and arctic regions, but are now degrading throughout their distributional range due to climate warming. Permafrost thaw and the degradation of palsa mounds are likely to affect the biogeochemical stability of soil organic matter (that is, SOM resistance to microbial decomposition), which may change the net C source/sink character of paisa peatland ecosystems. In this study, we have assessed both biological and chemical proxies for SOM stability, and we have investigated SOM bulk chemistry with mid-infrared spectroscopy, in surface peat of three distinct peatland features in a paisa peatland in northern Norway. Our results show that the stability of SOM in surface peat as determined by both biological and chemical proxies is consistently higher in the permafrost-associated paisa mounds than in the surrounding internal lawns and bog hummocks. Our results also suggest that differences in SOM bulk chemistry is a main factor explaining the present SOM stability in surface peat of palsa peatlands, with selective preservation of recalcitrant and highly oxidized SOM components in the active layer of palsa mounds during intense aerobic decomposition over time, whereas SOM in the wetter areas of the peatland remains stabilized mainly by anaerobic conditions. The continued degradation of paisa mounds and the expansion of wetter peat areas are likely to modify the bulk SOM chemistry of paisa peatlands, but the effect on the future net C source/sink character of paisa peatlands will largely depend on moisture conditions and oxygen availability in peat.
27823769|A series of recent high-profile papers in Science and Nature have led readers to believe that most fisheries worldwide are overexploited and that current fisheries management practices have universally failed. In reality, current fisheries management is working well to achieve the legislated objective of MSY in some countries but is failing in others. Here, I present three interpretations about the status of fisheries management that are widely accepted and for each consider an alternative interpretation of the data. I propose that, rather than abandoning current approaches to fisheries management, we should expand the use of the management tools used in fisheries that currently achieve biological and economic sustainability.
25053812|Scenarios can help planners and decision makers to think through uncertainties about the future and make decisions that are robust to a variety of possible outcomes. To develop useful scenarios we need to understand the main processes of relevance to the system of interest. Ecological processes, and the feedbacks that they can create between human actions and human well-being, are thought to be important for human societies. Current uncertainties over the long-term resilience of ecosystems and the substitutability of ecosystem goods and services can be translated into three alternative realities: ecosystems may be relatively brittle, relatively resilient, or largely irrelevant. Although these extremes are only rough characterizations of reality, they help us to focus our thinking about the possible outcomes of interactions between humans and the rest of the biosphere. Existing global scenarios can be categorized into a small number of families based on shared themes and assumptions about the future. Considering the internal consistency of four of the main scenario families in relation to the three alternative ecological realities suggests that all existing scenarios make strong, implicit assumptions about the resilience of ecosystems. After a detailed discussion of individual examples, we present a synthesis of the incorporation of ecology in existing scenarios. All current scenarios are inconsistent with at least one possible property of ecosystems and their likely interaction with society. The interrelationships between ecological reality, human views of ecosystems, and social responses to actual and perceived ecological change are complex. For the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment and future scenario exercises, we recommend that essential ecological assumptions should be made explicit to ensure that the details of each scenario are consistent with both the perceived and the actual degree of resilience of ecosystems.
41505920|Pelagic, littoral, and terrestrial resources can all play a role in supporting consumers in lakes. The role of benthic algal-derived food web pathways in lakes is perhaps the least understood because limnologists have historically focused on pelagic (open-water) production and processes. We compiled carbon stable isotope data from 546 fish populations (75 lakes), and used a two end-member mixing model to calculate littoral-benthic reliance for each fish species in each lake. Fish littoral-benthic reliance values were averaged by lake to assess overall fish species benthic reliance for each lake. Lake-specific mean littoral reliance (BR L ; fish species not weighted according to production or biomass) averaged 57% and was independent of lake morphological and limnological attributes. For these same lakes, water column nutrients, light, and morphometry data were used to estimate whole-lake benthic algal and phytoplankton primary production. On average, benthic algae comprised 36% of whole-lake primary production (BP f = 0.36). BP f and BR L were weakly correlated: BR L tends to be high even in large/deep lakes in which benthic algae is a minor contributor to whole-lake primary production. The high littoralbenthic contribution to individual fish species appears to reflect the high concentration of fish species diversity in the littoral zone. Our work cannot be extrapolated to whole-lake fish production. However, the result is consistent with other work indicating that most fish species inhabit the littoral zone, whereas relatively few exclusively inhabit the pelagic. Our results suggest that it takes less primary production to support a single fish species in the littoral zone than is required to support a species in the pelagic.
23328062|Management efforts to promote forest resiliency as climate changes have often used historical forest structure and composition to provide general guidance for fuels reduction and forest restoration treatments. However, it has been difficult to identify what stand conditions might be fire and drought resilient because historical data and reconstruction studies are generally limited to accurate estimates only of large, live tree density and composition. Other stand features such as smaller tree densities, dead wood, understory structure, regeneration, and fuel loads have been difficult to quantify, estimate how they may vary across a landscape, or assess how they would be affected by fire under current climate conditions. We sampled old-growth, mixed-conifer forests with at least two low-intensity fires within the last 65 years in 150 plots at 48 sample sites ranging over 400 km of the Sierra Nevada. Recent fire history had the strongest influence on understory conditions with small tree density decreasing and shrub cover increasing with the increased intensity and frequency of fire associated with upper-slope and ridge-top locations. In contrast, stand structures associated with large, overstory trees such as total basal area, canopy cover, and the abundance of large snags and logs increased in topographic locations associated with more mesic, productive sites regardless of fire history. In forests with restored fire regimes, topography, fire and their interaction influence productivity and burn intensity, creating the structural heterogeneity characteristic of frequent-fire forests.
40296278|In this 'perspectives' article, we share experiences gained from the century-old Kruger National Park (KNP) in South Africa to illustrate the dynamic complexity of biophysical and socio-political systems, the interactions that occur between them, and the consequences for ecosystem-scale functions and resources and for their management. As in KNP, the social-ecological milieu surrounding many national parks and protected areas is changing rapidly. There will be significant managerial adjustments as human populations grow and the needs for resources accelerate. The changes, driven largely by global-scale environmental shifts as well as by new knowledge, are intimately intertwined with evolving societal perceptions, values, and expectations. Many KNP resource-related issues of the past century originated more internally and were largely environmental, whereas the emerging issues are more external and largely social. Here, we illustrate how interrelated scientific and managerial advances in integrating biophysical and social systems are acting to conserve and rehabilitate resources within KNP, and to aid in their conservation. Where appropriate, we relate these advances to similar examples in the region or other protected areas in the world. Strategies to address emerging issues are identified and discussedand their combined effects on resource conservation and management are evaluated. In our experience the approach to conservation within KNP has been successful, despite well-intended but damaging management actions in the past. We believe that the perceived success stems from a willingness to continually incorporate new knowledge into management, to foster close working and personal associations among scientists, managers, and rangers, to acquire an intimate knowledge and understanding of the social-ecological system by the administrators as well as by the staff, and to be actively 'forward' thinking in an increasingly complex and uncertain world. We accept that many decisions taken today will be challenged by future managers and scientists, and we expect that some will be found wanting as emerging knowledge and continued learning shape future decisions. Further, evolving political, social, and environmental contexts may mean that protected areas will need to be managed in different ways. Therefore, we emphasize the importance of minimizing the permanency and impact of decisions so that today's actions do not compromise future decisions when meaningful changes need to be made.
3658861|Studies in temperate grassland ecosystems have shown that differences in composition of C
3658930|Bighorn Lake, a fishless alpine lake, was stocked with nonnative brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalis, in 1965 and 1966. The newly introduced trout rapidly eliminated the large crustaceans Hesperodiaptomus arcticus and Daphnia middendorffiana from the plankton. In July 1997, we began to remove the fish using gill nets. The population comprised 261 fish that averaged 214 g in wet weight and 273 mm in fork length. Thereafter, zooplankton abundance increased within weeks. Early increases were caused by the maturation of Diacyclops bicuspidatus, few of which reached copepodid stages before the removal of the fish because of fish predation. Daphnia middendorffiana, absent when fish were present, reappeared in 1998. Hesperodiaptomus arcticus, which had been eliminated by the stocked fish, did not return. The proportion of large zooplankton increased after fish removal, but their overall biomass did not change. Algal biomass was low and variable throughout the 1990s and correlated with water temperature but not with nutrient concentrations or grazer densities. Diatoms were the most abundant algal taxon in the lake, followed by Dinophyceae. Chrysophyceans and cryptophyceans were eliminated after the fish were removed. Chlorophyll a concentrations were unaffected. Gill netting is a viable fish eradication technique for smaller (less than 10 ha), shallow (less than 10 m deep) lakes that lack habitable inflows and outflows or other sensitive species. Further work is required to define appropriate removal methods for larger lakes and watersheds.
27823709|Wastelands are likely to host a significant part of urban floristic diversity but have received limited attention because they are not considered interesting green zones. Here, we explore the potential role of wastelands in maintaining urban biodiversity to help define effective urban management plans. We quantified floristic diversity in 98 wasteland sites of Hauts-de-Seine, one of the most densely populated areas in France, and characterized the environmental parameters and spatial distribution of sites to identify some of the factors that influence plant species composition and to explore the impact of urban environment on the floristic interest of wastelands. Their floristic richness represented 58% of the total richness observed in the whole study area. Site richness depended on site area (the largest sites were the richest) and site age, with a maximum in sites of intermediate age (413 years). In the largest sites only (>2,500 m2), the floristic distance among sites was positively correlated with geographic distance, which suggests that migration of species among large sites partly controls local floristic composition. In contrast, the environmental distance among sites was not correlated with floristic distance. Finally, we showed that the presence of collective and individual dwellings within 200 m of a wasteland decreased its floristic rarity, whereas the presence of rivers or ponds increased it. We derive several recommendations to optimize the management of wastelands with respect to conservation of urban biodiversity.
40296421|Research that connects ecosystem processes to genetic mechanisms has recently gained significant ground, yet actual studies that span the levels of organization from genes to ecosystems are extraordinarily rare. Utilizing foundation species from the genus Populus, in which the role of condensed tannins (CT) has been investigated aboveground, belowground, and in adjacent streams, we examine the diverse mechanisms for the expression of CT and the ecological consequences of CT for forests and streams. The wealth of data from this genus highlights the importance of form and function of CT in large-scale and long-term ecosystem processes and demonstrates the following four patterns: (1) plant- specific concentration of CT varies as much as fourfold among species and individual genotypes; (2) large within-plant variation in CT occurs due to ontogenetic stages (that is, juvenile and mature), tissue types (that is, leaves versus twigs) and phenotypic plasticity in response to the environment; (3) CT have little consistent effect on plant-herbivore interactions, excepting organisms utilizing woody tissues (that is, fungal endophytes and beaver), however; (4) CT in plants consistently slow rates of leaf litter decomposition (aquatic and terrestrial), alter the composition of heterotrophic soil communities (and some aquatic communities) and reduce nutrient availability in terrestrial ecosystems. Taken together, these data suggest that CT may play an underappreciated adaptive role in regulating nutrient dynamics in ecosystems. These results also demonstrate that a holistic perspective from genesto-ecosystems is a powerful approach for elucidating complex ecological interctions and their evolutionary implications
27823738|The importance of the spatial pattern of vegetation for hydrological behavior in semiarid environments is widely acknowledged. However, there is little empirical work testing the hypothetical covariation between vegetation spatial structure and hillslope water and sediment fluxes. We evaluated the relationships between vegetation structural attributes (spatial pattern, functional diversity), soil surface properties (crust, stone, plant, and ground cover, and particle size distribution) and hillslope hydrologic functioning in a semiarid Mediterranean landscape; in particular, we tested whether decreasing patch density or coarsening plant spatial pattern would increase runoff and sediment yield at the hillslope scale. Runoff and sediment yield were measured over a 45-month period on nine 8  2-m plots that varied in vegetation type and spatial pattern. We grouped vegetation into functional types and derived plant spatial pattern attributes from field plot maps processed through a GIS system. We found that there was an inverse relationship between patch density and runoff, and that both runoff and sediment yields increased as the spatial pattern of vegetation coarsened. Vegetation pattern attributes and plant functional diversity were better related to runoff and sediment yield than soil surface properties. However, a significant relationship was found between physical crust cover and plant spatial pattern. Our results present empirical evidence for the direct relationship between the hydrologic functioning of semiarid lands and both the spatial pattern and the functional diversity of perennial vegetation, and suggest that plant spatial pattern, physical crust cover, and functional diversity may be linked through feedback mechanisms.
23501437|Water availability is the dominant control of global terrestrial primary productivity with concurrent effects on evapotranspiration and ecosystem respiration, especially in water-limited ecosystems. Process-oriented ecosystem models are critical tools for understanding landatmosphere exchanges and for up-scaling this information to regional and global scales. Thus, it is important to understand how ecosystem models simulate ecosystem fluxes under changing weather conditions. Here, we applied both time-series analysis and meta-analysis techniques to study how five ecosystem process-oriented models-simulated gross primary production (GPP), ecosystem respiration (Reco), and evapotranspiration (ET). Ecosystem fluxes were simulated for 3 years at a daily time step from four evergreen and three deciduous Mediterranean oak woodlands (21 site-year measurements; 105 site-year-simulations). Mediterranean ecosystems are important test-beds for studying the interannual dynamics of soil moisture on ecosystem mass and energy exchange as they experience cool, wet winters with hot, dry summers and are typically subject to drought. Results show data-model disagreements at multiple temporal scales for GPP, Reco, and ET at both plant functional types. Overall there was a systematic underestimation of the temporal variation of Reco at both plant functional types at temporal scales between weeks and months, and an overestimation at the yearly scale. Modeled Reco was systematically overestimated during drought for all sites, but daily GPP was systematically underestimated only for deciduous sites during drought. In contrast, daily estimates of ET showed good data-model agreement even during drought conditions. This meta-analysis brings attention to the importance of drought conditions for modeling purposes in representing forest dynamics in water-limited ecosystems.
41507771|Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia) is a non-native riparian tree that has become common and continues to rapidly spread throughout the western United States. Due to its dinitrogen (N)-fixing ability and proximity to streams, Russian olive has the potential to subsidize stream ecosystems with nitrogen (N), which may in turn alter nutrient processing in these systems. We tested these potential effects by comparing background N concentrations; nutrient limitation of biofilms; and uptake of ammonium (NH-N), nitrate (NO-N), and phosphate (PO-P) in paired upstream-reference and downstream-invaded reaches in streams in southeastern Idaho and central Wyoming. We found that stream reaches invaded by Russian olive had higher organic N concentrations and exhibited reduced N limitation of biofilms compared to reference reaches. However, at low inorganic N background concentrations, reaches invaded by Russian olive exhibited higher demand for both NH-N and NO-N compared to their paired reference reaches, suggesting these streams have the potential to retain the N subsidy from Russian olive N fixation and diminish its downstream export and effects. Our findings demonstrate the potential for a nonnative riparian plant to significantly alter biogeochemical cycling in streams. Finally, we used our results to develop a conceptual model that describes predicted effects of Russian olive and other nonnative riparian N fixers on in-stream N dynamics.
25470408|We compiled a time series of Earth Observing-1 Hyperion satellite observations with field measurements to compare the structural, biochemical, and physiological characteristics of an invasive nitrogen-fixing tree Myrica faya and native Metro-sideros polymorpha in montane rainforests in Hawai'i. Satellite-based canopy water measurements closely tracked variations in leaf area index, and the remotely sensed photochemical and carotenoid reflectance indices (PRI, CRI) indicated variations in upper-canopy leaf chlorophyll and carotenoid content during a climatological transition. The PRI and CRI were related to differences in light-use efficiency of each species, as indicated by field measurements of leaf electron transport rate. The suite of hyperspectral metrics indicated maximum differences in the structure, biochemistry, and physiology of Myrica and Metrosideros when canopy vapor pressure deficit was high during hotter and drier periods. These satellite data, combined with the Carnegue-Ames-Stanford Approach (CASA) carbon cycle model, suggested that Myrica growth rates were 16-44% higher than Metrosideros, with relative differences between species closely linked to climate conditions. The satellite hyperspectral data identified the basic biological mechanisms favoring the spread of an introduced tree, and provided a more detailed understanding of how vegetation-climate interactions affect the time course of plant growth with respect to the invasion process.
43677540|Sustainable nutrient cycling in agroecosystems combining grazing and crops has global ramifications for protecting these ecosystems and for the livelihoods they support. We sought to understand environmental, management, and social drivers of nutrient management and sustainability in Andean grazing/crop systems. We assessed the impact of farmer wealth, fields' proximity to villages, topography, and rangeland net primary productivity (NPP) on mass balances for nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) of 43 fields. Wealthier farmers applied greater total amounts (kg) of manure nutrients. However, higher manure application rates (kg ha) were associated with field proximity and NPP rather than wealth. Manure P inputs in far fields (> 500-m distant) were half those in near fields. Harvest exports increased with manure inputs (P < 0.001) so that balances varied less than either of these flows. Erosion nutrient losses in steeper far fields matched crop exports, and yields declined with increasing field slope (P < 0.001), suggesting that erosion reduces productivity. Balances for P were slightly positive in near and far fields (+ 2.2 kg P ha y, combined mean) when calculated without erosion, but zero in near fields and negative in far fields with erosion included (-6.1 kg P ha y in far fields). Near/far differences in both inputs and erosion thus drove P limitation. Crop K exports dominated K balances, which were negative even without accounting for erosion. Modeled intensification scenarios showed that remediating far field deficits would require P addition and erosion reduction. Management nested within environmental constraints (NPP, erosion) rather than socioeconomic status drives soil nutrient sustainability in these agroecosystems. Time-lags between management and long-term degradation are a principal sustainability challenge to farming in these montane grazing/crop agroecosystems.
43677533|We investigated long-term responses (since 1850) of Fagus sylvatica (Luxembourg; central Europe) to shifts in temperature, precipitation, and nitrogen deposition by analyzing diameter at breast height (DBH) increment, basal area increment (BAI), and tree-ring stable isotopes (C, N). We compared stands on soils with contrasting water supply (Regosols and Cambisols with an available water capacity of ca. 40 and 170 mm, respectively) and of two different age classes (ca. 60 vs. 200 years). All stands showed a peak in DBH increment in the decade 1978-1987, but a decline in increment growth in subsequent decades. In addition, BAI declined in mature stands in the last two decades. Decreasing increment rates were attributable to an increasing drought limitation of stands, mainly induced by increasing temperatures in the last two decades. Contrary to our expectations, stands on Cambisols showed a similar susceptibility to shifts in temperature and precipitation as stands on Regosols, suggesting a strong adaptation of the respective ecotypes grown at dryer sites. This result was in line with long-term trends for tree-ring C signatures, which did not differ significantly between stands on Cambisols and Regosols. Climate impacts on tree-ring N signatures were low. High spring precipitation and temperatures caused increasing and decreasing N values, respectively, but only in mature stands on Cambisols. Stands on Regosols tended to have lower N values than stands on Cambisols. Decreasing N values in recent decades suggest an increasing impact of allochthonous N loads with isotopically lighter N.
41413971|Production and distribution of fine roots (< 2.0 mm diameter) are central to belowground ecological processes. This is especially true where vegetation serves as a pump to prevent saturation of soil and possible drainage of excess water into or from potentially toxic waste material stored underground or in mounds aboveground. In this study undertaken near Sydney in Australia, we determined fine root biomass and evapotranspiration (ET) on a waste disposal site restored with either a 15-year-old grass sward or plantations of mixed woody species that were either 5 years old (plantation-5) with a vigorous groundcover of pasture legumes and grasses, or 3 years old (plantation-3) with sparse groundcover. These sites were compared with nearby remnant woodland; all four were located within 0.5-km radius at the same site. Ranking of fine root biomass was in the order woodland (12.3 Mg ha) > plantation-5 (8.3 Mg ha) > grass (4.9 Mg ha) > plantation-3 (1.2 Mg ha) and was not correlated with nutrient contents in soil or plants, but reflected the form and age of the vegetation covers. Trends in root length density (RLD) and root area index (RAI) followed those in root biomass, but the differences in RAI were larger than those in biomass amongst the vegetation covers. Annual ET in the dry year of 2009 was similar in the three woody vegetation covers (652-683 mm) and was at least 15% larger than for the grass (555 mm), which experienced restrained growth in winter and periodic mowing. This resulted in drainage from the grass cover while there was no drainage from any of the woody vegetation covers. In plantation-5, root biomass, RAI and RLD were reduced in the rain shadow side of the tree rows. Similarly, the amount and depth of rooting in the groundcover were reduced close to the trees compared to midway between rows. Differences in the root variables were larger than those in ET, which suggested that more roots were produced than were needed for water uptake and/or presence of considerable amounts of necromass. We conclude that vegetation covers, such as plantation-5 consisting of widely spaced trees and a heavy groundcover containing winter-active pasture legumes, will promote year-round water-use with a reduced risk of deep rooting that could breach buried wastes. This function could be sustained through progressive thinning of trees to account for not more than 25% of the whole canopy cover; this will minimize competition for limited soil-water and thereby constrain deep rooting as vegetation ages and attains climax.
25622884|Successful ecosystem-based management requires the selection and use of informative indicators of ecosystem status. We analyzed seven marine food web models to evaluate the performance of candidate indicators of ecosystem structure and function. The basic approach involved simulating fishing perturbations to each model, measuring the response of ecosystem attributes and candidate indicators to the perturbations, and testing the ability of the indicators to track changes in the values of the attributes. We focused on 22 ecosystem attributes, encompassing structural and functional properties that are relevant to a number of stakeholder groups but are typically difficult to measure directly (for example, food web structure, energy recycling). We tested for correlations between the attributes and 27 empirically tractable candidate indicators (for example, foraging guild biomasses, ratios of community-level groups) within each of the models and quantified consistency in indicator performance across the models. Our analysis suggests that no single indicator is sufficient to describe all of the ecosystem attributes, but at the same time highlights broad, catch-all indicators (for example, detritivores, jellyfish) and distinguishes the strongest attribute-indicator relationships. Ecosystem indicators consisting of lower-trophic level, higher-productivity functional groups tended to perform particularly well. We also identified indicators that showed strong or weak associations with different attributes, but together captured changes in nearly all of them. Examples of such complementary indicators include phytoplankton, zooplanktivorous fish, piscivorous fish, and trophic level of the catch. Quantitative approaches such as this one will enable managers to make informed decisions about ecosystem-scale monitoring in the oceans.
40793008|A ubiquitous problem for community-based regional environmental agencies is to set strategic management priorities among a myriad of issues and multiple stakeholder perspectives. Here, we quantify the strategic management priorities for natural capital and ecosystem services using multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) in a case study of the South Australian Murray-Darling Basin Natural Resources Management Board (the Board) region. A natural capital and ecosystem services framework was tailored to present decision-makers with a range of potential issues for strategic consideration as goal hierarchies in MCDA. Priorities were elicited from the Board and its four regionally based consultative groups using the Analytical Hierarchy Process and swing weights. Centered log ratio transformed weights were analyzed using multiple pairwise ANOVA comparisons (Dunnett's T3) and hierarchical cluster analysis. Substantial variation in priorities occurred between decision -makers. Nonetheless, analysis of priorities for assets and services robustly demonstrated that water was the highest priority, followed by land, then biota, with atmosphere the lowest priority. Decisionmakers also considered that environmental management should not impact negatively on built or social capital. Few significant differences in priorities were found between decision-maker groups. However, clusters of manager types were found which represent distinct alternative management strategies, notably the prioritization of either intermediate or final ecosystem services. The results have implications for regional environmental decision-making and suggest that embracing variation in perspectives may be a better way forward for multistakeholder MCDA. The study operationalizes natural capital and ecosystem services by providing strategic priorities for targeting management and policy within the context of communitybased, regional environmental management.
40603507|Coastal mangrove forests were historically considered as a source of organic matter (OM) for adjacent marine systems due to high net primary production; yet recent research suggesting little uptake through the food web because of low nutritional quality, challenges the concept of trophic linkage between mangrove forests and coral reefs. To examine the importance of mangrove forests to coral reef nutrient availability, we examined sessile reef-forming invertebrate consumers including hard corals, sponges, a bivalve mollusc, polychaete annelid and tunicate, and potential sources of OM (decaying mangrove leaves, microalgae, macroalgae, and seagrass) in Bocas del Toro, Panama. Using stable isotope analyses of  and C and a concentrationdependent version of the IsoSource mixing model, we were able to discriminate among and determine the range of potential contributions of our four OM sources to consumers. Contributions of microalgae and macroalgae were often indeterminate due to high variability, yet seagrass and mangrove contributions were often substantial. Mangrove OM ranged across sites and species of filter feeders from 0 to 57%, 7 to 41%, and 18 to 52% for sponges, file clams, and feather duster worms, respectively. Mangrove contribution to corals (Acropora cervicor nis, Agaricia fragilis, Agaricia tenuifolia, Montastrea annularis, Diploria sp.) ranged from 0 to 44%. To examine whether OM contribution varied with distance from mangroves, we conducted a sponge transplant experiment that demonstrated declining mangrove contribution across three sponge species with increasing distance from the shore. These results supported the hypothesis of mangrove-coral reef nutrient linkages, providing the first evidence that mangrove inputs of OM to sessile invertebrates are substantial, accounting for 0-57% of the composition.
25470346|The arrangement and composition of flowpath types within a given network are thought to govern its functioning. This concept assumes that different flowpath types are functionally distinct. We investigated this assumption in a fluvial ecosystem by comparing the riparian zone, parafluvial zone (in-channel gravel bars), and surface stream. We hypothesized that differences in advection, uptake, and sorption would render material cycles more (a) open and (b) mutable in the surface stream, whereas the converse would occur in the riparian zone, and an intermediate state would be seen in the intervening parafluvial zone. To test our first hypothesis, we predicted that spatial heterogeneity in solute concentrations would be least in the surface stream, greater in the parafluvial zone, and greatest in the riparian zone. Using a null model, we ascertained that this pattern was shown by all solute species we examined (nitrate, ammonium, total dissolved inorganic nitrogen [DIN], dissolved organic N, total dissolved N, soluble reactive phosphorus, dissolved organic carbon, and chloride). To test our second hypothesis, we predicted that temporal change in spatial heterogeneity would be greatest in the surface stream, less in the parafluvial zone, and least in the riparian zone. Nitrate, DIN, and chloride showed this pattern. In particular, surface stream inorganic N was less spatially variable following months of high rainfall. According to an extant hypothesis, these results suggest that inorganic N processing may be a stable function in this ecosystem. Other solute species did not support our second prediction, perhaps because their retention and release dynamics are influenced principally by geochemistry. Generally, our findings indicate that a geomorphic template can generate spatial patterns in ecosystem function, warranting an expansion of the spiraling framework to a variety of flowpath types.
27823689|It has only recently become apparent that biological activity during winter in seasonally snow-covered ecosystems may exert a significant influence on biogeochemical cycling and ecosystem function. One-seventh of the global soil carbon pool is stored in the bulk soil component of arctic ecosystems. Consistent climate change predictions of substantial increases in winter air temperatures and snow depths for the Arctic indicate that this region may become a significant net annual source of CO2 to the atmosphere if its bulk soil carbon is decomposed. We used snow fences to investigate the influence of a moderate increase in snow depth from approximately 0.3 m (ambient) to approximately 1 m on winter carbon dioxide fluxes from mesic birch hummock tundra in northern Canada. We differentiated fluxes derived from the bulk soil and plant-associated carbon pools using an experimental 'weeding' manipulation. Increased snow depth enhanced the wintertime carbon flux from both pools, strongly suggesting that respiration from each was sensitive to warmer soil temperatures. Furthermore, deepened snow resulted in cooler and relatively stable soil temperatures during the spring-thaw period, as well as delayed and fewer freezethaw cycles. The snow fence treatment increased mean total winter efflux from 27 to 43 g CO2-C m2. Because total 2004 growing season net ecosystem exchange for this site is estimated at 2937 g CO2-C m2, our results strongly suggest that a moderate increase in snow depth can enhance winter respiration sufficiently to switch the ecosystem annual net carbon exchange from a sink to source, resulting in net CO2 release to the atmosphere.
25053880|Recent, parallel developments in the study of freshwater and marine ecosystems have provided evidence that net heterotrophic systems (those in which respiratory organic matter destruction exeeds photosynthetic production) are more prevalent than hitherto believed, including most rivers, oligo- to mesotrophic lakes and some oligotrophic regions of the ocean. In parallel, these aquatic ecosystems have been shown to act as
3658973|Nomadism in animals is a response to resource distributions that are highly variable in time and space. Using the avian fauna of the Mediterranean-climate region of southcentral Australia, we tested a number of variables to determine if they predicted nomadism. These variables were species body mass, the distance in body mass terms to the edge of a body mass aggregation, and diet (for example, seeds, invertebrates, nectar, or plants). We utilized two different classifications of the avifauna that diverged in their definition of nomadic to build two different predictive models. Using both classifications, distance to the edge of a body mass aggregation was found to be a significant predictor of nomadism. There was also evidence that nomads tend to feed on nectar and tend to be large. The significance of the variables body mass and diet (nectar) may reflect the greater energy requirements of large birds and the inherent variability of nectar as a food source. The significance of the variable distance to the edge of a body mass aggregation provides further evidence of inherent variability in resources between domains of scale. The edges of body mass aggregations are hypothesized to be areas of increased resource variability that reflect the transition from one scale of landscape pattern to another.
41505961|The sensitivity of surface waters to acidic deposition is governed by the interaction of catchment geology, soils, topography, land use, climate and atmospheric deposition. Accordingly at the landscape scale, catchment attributes may be used to predict lake chemistry (for example, acid neutralising capacity (ANC), pH, calcium (Ca) and dissolved organic carbon (DOC)). Empirical (multiple linear regression) models based on average measured chemistry (2000-2006) for 204 lakes in Nova Scotia (NS) Canada, and their catchment attributes, were used to predict chemistry for all lakes in NS (n = 6104). Damage to aquatic biota, such as loss of species and/or reduced biodiversity has been widely evaluated using critical chemical thresholds commonly based on pH, ANC and Ca. The proportion of sensitive lakes in NS (that is, the stock at risk) was estimated as lakes with ANC less than 20 eq l, pH below 6, and Ca less than 75 eq l (13, 73 and 74%, respectively). Many lakes in NS are characterized by high DOC (> 7 mg l); in these lakes organic acids contribute to total acidity, making anthropogenic influences difficult to discern. To account for the potential contribution of organic acidity, all lakes with pH below 6 (and DOC < 7 mg l) and lakes below a threshold for ANC adjusted for organic acids were quantified; 63% of the lakes fell below either of these thresholds. Despite substantial reductions in sulphur emissions in North America since the 1980s, many lakes in NS remain at risk to acidic deposition.
3658616|Old forests are generally believed to exhibit low net primary productivity (NPP) and therefore to be insignificant carbon sinks. This relationship between age and NPP is based, in part, on the hypothesis that the biomass of respiratory tissues such as sapwood increases with age to a point where all photosynthate is required just to maintain existing tissue. However, this theoretical connection between respiration:assimilation ratios and forest productivity is based on age-dependent trends in the sapwood:leaf ratios of individual trees and even-aged stands; it does not take into account such processes in natural forests as disproportional increases in shade-tolerant species over time and multiple-age cohorts. Ignoring succession and structural complexity may lead to large underestimates of the productivity of old forests and inaccurate estimates of the ages at which forest productivity declines. To address this problem, we compared biomass allocation and productivity between whitebark pine, a shade-intolerant, early-successional tree species, and subalpine fir, a shade-tolerant, late-successional species, by harvesting 14 whitebark pines and nine subalpine firs that varied widely in dbh and calculating regression models for dbh vs annual productivity and biomass allocation to leaves, sapwood, and heartwood. Late-successional subalpine fir allocated almost twice as much biomass to leaves as early-successional whitebark pine. Subalpine firs also had a much lower allocation to sapwood and higher growth rates across all tree sizes. We then modeled biomass allocation and productivity for 12 natural stands in western Montana that were dominated by subalpine fir and whitebark pine varying in age from 67 to 458 years by applying the regressions to all trees in each stand. Whole-stand sapwood:leaf ratios and stand productivity increased asymptotically with age. Sapwood:leaf ratios and productivity of whitebark pine in these stands increased for approximately 200-300 years and then decreased slowly over the next 200 years. In contrast, sapwood:leaf ratios of all sizes of subalpine fir were lower than those of pine and productivity was higher. As stands shifted in dominance from pine to fir with age, subalpine fir appeared to maintain gradually increasing rates of whole-forest productivity until stands were approximately 400 years old. These results suggest that forests such as these may continue to sequester carbon for centuries. If shade-tolerant species that predominate late in succession maintain high assimilation-to-respiration ratios in other forests, we may be underestimating production in old forests, and current models may underestimate the importance of mature forests as carbon sinks for atmospheric CO
40296320|Secondary forests are becoming increasingly widespread in the tropics, but our understanding of how secondary succession affects carbon (C) cycling and C sequestration in these ecosystems is limited. We used a well-replicated 80-year pasture to forest successional chronosequence and primary forest in Puerto Rico to explore the relationships among litterfall, litter quality, decomposition, and soil C pools. Litterfall rates recovered rapidly during early secondary succession and averaged 10.5 ( 0.1 SE) Mg/ha/y among all sites over a 2-year period. Although forest plant community composition and plant life form dominance changed during succession, litter chemistry as evaluated by sequential C fractions and by C-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy did not change significantly with forest age, nor did leaf decomposition rates. Root decomposition was slower than leaves and was fastest in the 60-year-old sites and slowest in the 10-and 30-year-old sites. Common litter and common site experiments suggested that site conditions were more important controls than litter quality in this chronosequence. Bulk soil C content was positively correlated with hydrophobic leaf compounds, suggesting that there is greater soil C accumulation if leaf litter contains more tannins and waxy compounds relative to more labile compounds. Our results suggest that most key C fluxes associated with litter production and decomposition re-establish rapidly: within a decade or two during tropical secondary succession. Therefore, recovery of leaf litter C cycling processes after pasture use are faster than aboveground woody biomass and species accumulation, indicating that these young secondary forests have the potential to recover litter cycling functions and provide some of the same ecosystem services of primary forests.
27823754|Stable isotope ratios of terrestrial ecosystem nitrogen (N) pools reflect internal processes and inputoutput balances. Disturbance generally increases N cycling and loss, yet few studies have examined ecosystem 15N over a disturbance-recovery sequence. We used a chronosequence approach to examine N distribution and 15N during forest regrowth after agricultural abandonment. Site ages ranged from 10 to 115 years, with similar soils, climate, land-use history, and overstory vegetation (white pine Pinus strobus). Foliar N and 15N decreased as stands aged, consistent with a progressive tightening of the N cycle during forest regrowth on agricultural lands. Over time, foliar 15N became more negative, indicating increased fractionation along the mineralizationmycorrhizalplant uptake pathway. Total ecosystem N was constant across the chronosequence, but substantial internal N redistribution occurred from the mineral soil to plants and litter over 115 years (>25% of ecosystem N or 1,610 kg ha1). Temporal trends in soil 15N generally reflected a redistribution of depleted N from the mineral soil to the developing O horizon. Although plants and soil 15N are coupled over millennial time scales of ecosystem development, our observed divergence between plants and soil suggests that they can be uncoupled during the disturbance-regrowth sequence. The approximate 2 decrease in ecosystem 15N over the century scale suggests significant incorporation of atmospheric N, which was not detected by traditional ecosystem N accounting. Consideration of temporal trends and disturbance legacies can improve our understanding of the influence of broader factors such as climate or N deposition on ecosystem N balances and 15N.
40603646|Ecosystem nutrient budgets often report values for pools and fluxes without any indication of uncertainty, which makes it difficult to evaluate the significance of findings or make comparisons across systems. We present an example, implemented in Excel, of a Monte Carlo approach to estimating error in calculating the N content of vegetation at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire. The total N content of trees was estimated at 847 kg ha with an uncertainty of 8%, expressed as the standard deviation divided by the mean (the coefficient of variation). The individual sources of uncertainty were as follows: uncertainty in allometric equations (5%), uncertainty in tissue N concentrations (3%), uncertainty due to plot variability (6%, based on a sample of 15 plots of 0.05 ha), and uncertainty due to tree diameter measurement error (0.02%). In addition to allowing estimation of uncertainty in budget estimates, this approach can be used to assess which measurements should be improved to reduce uncertainty in the calculated values. This exercise was possible because the uncertainty in the parameters and equations that we used was made available by previous researchers. It is important to provide the error statistics with regression results if they are to be used in later calculations; archiving the data makes resampling analyses possible for future researchers. When conducted using a Monte Carlo framework, the analysis of uncertainty in complex calculations does not have to be difficult and should be standard practice when constructing ecosystem budgets.
27823664|We tested whether pelagic light and nutrient availability, metabolism, organic pools and CO2- supersaturation were related to lake size and surrounding forest cover in late summerautumn measurements among 64 small (0.0220 ha), shallow seepage lakes located in nutrient-rich, calcareous moraine soils in North Zealand, Denmark. We found a strong implicit scaling to lake size as light availability increased significantly with lake size as light availability increased significantly with lake size while nutrient availability, phytoplankton biomass and dissolved organic matter declined. Forest lakes had significantly stronger net heterotrophic traits than open lakes as higher values were observed for light attenuation above and in the water, dissolved organic matter, pelagic community respiration (R) relative to maximum gross primary production (R/GPP) and CO2-supersaturation. Total-phosphorus was the main predictor of phytoplankton biomass (Chl) despite a much weaker relationship than observed in previous studies of larger lakes. Maximum gross primary production increased with algal biomass and decreased with dissolved organic matter, whereas community respiration increased with dissolved organic matter and particularly with gross primary production. These results suggest that exogenous organic matter supplements primary production as an energy source to heterotrophs in these small lakes, and particularly so in forest lakes experiencing substantial shading from the forest and dissolved humic material. This suggestion is supported by 2030-fold CO2 supersaturaiton in the surface water of the smallest forest lakes and more than sixfold supersaturation in 75% of all measurements making these lakes among the most supersaturated temperate lakes examined so far.
3658866|We investigated the atmospheric concentrations and deposition fluxes of major ions to the Turkey Lakes Watershed (TLW) between 1980 and 1996. During that time, daily
23501476|Nitrogen immobilization in fresh litter represents a significant N flux in forest ecosystems, and changes in this process resulting from atmospheric N deposition could have important implications for ecosystem responses. We conducted two leaf decay experiments, using 15 N-labeled sugar maple leaf litter, to quantify N transport from old litter and soil to fresh litter during early stages of decomposition, and we examined the influence of litter N concentration and soil N availability on upward N transfer in a northern hardwood forest. After one year of decay, the average N transfer from soil to fresh litter (2.63 mg N g -1 litter) was much higher than the N transfer from older litter (1 - to 2-years-old) to fresh litter (0.37 mg N g -1 litter). We calculated the ratio of annual N transfer per unit of excess 15 N pool for these two N sources. The ratio was not significantly different between old litter and soil, suggesting that fungi utilize N in the old litter and mineral soil pools for transport to decaying fresh litter with similar efficiency. Initial litter N concentration had a significant effect on upward N flux into decaying leaf litter, whereas no effect of soil N fertilization was observed. Reduction in the flux from soil to fresh litter owing to anthropogenic N inputs probably contributes significantly to changing soil N dynamics. Future work is needed on fungal N acquisition and transport as well as the fungal taxa involved in this process and their responses to changing environments.
3659046|Land use can exert a powerful influence on ecological systems, yet our understanding of the natural and social factors that influence land use and land-cover change is incomplete. We studied land-cover change in an area of about
27823685|We examined the dynamics of organic nitrogen (N) turnover in situ across a primary successional sequence in interior Alaska, USA, in an attempt to understand the magnitude of these fluxes in cold, seasonally frozen soils. Through a combination of soil extraction procedures and measurements of 13C-enriched CO2 efflux from soils amended in the field with 13C-labeled amino acids, we were able to trace the fate of this N form. Amino acid turnover in situ at soil temperatures of 10C or below show that amino acids represent a highly dynamic soil N pool with turnover times of approximately 36 h. The rapid turnover of free amino acids is associated with high soil proteolytic activity, which in turn is tightly correlated with soil protein concentration. Moreover, these estimates of soil amino acid turnover in the field correspond well with measurements of amino acid turnover under equivalent temperatures in the laboratory. The gross flux of amino acid-N over the growing season greatly exceeded the annual vegetation N requirement, suggesting that microbial biomass represent a significant sink for this organic N. Depending on the strength of this sink, N flow via free soil amino acids can potentially account for the entire N demand of vegetation in the absence of net N mineralization. These relationships underscore the important biogeochemical role of labile DON fractions in high-latitude forest ecosystems.
27823717|We conducted a 2-year in situ experiment to test the capacity of iron additions to reverse the decline experienced by a Posidonia oceanica meadow colonizing carbonate, iron poor sediment. Iron additions improved the sediment conditions that support seagrass growth by decreasing the sediment sulfide concentration and sulfate reduction rates, and decreased sulfide intrusion into the plants. Iron additions for 2 years did not significantly change survivorship of shoots present at the onset of the experiment, but significantly increased shoot recruitment and survivorship of shoots recruited during the experiment. After 2 years, iron additions reversed seagrass decline and yielded positive growth rates of shoots relative to control populations where seagrass continued to decline. This research demonstrates that seagrass decline in carbonate sediments may be reversed by targeting critical processes such are sediment sulfide pools and seagrass nutritional status, controlling the functioning of the ecosystem.
41413035|Recent advances in soil C saturation concepts have increased our understanding of soil C storage and mineralization without explicit links to N retention and saturation theories. Here, we exploit soil texture and organic matter (OM) gradients in a Maryland, USA hardwood forest to test hypotheses that link soil organic C saturation with soil N retention and nitrification. At our site, mineral-associated OM (MAOM) N concentrations in the silt + clay particle fraction (g MAOM-N g silt + clay) were negatively correlated with the fraction of NH-N transferred to MAOM during a 3-day in situ incubation (R = -0.85), but positively correlated with potential net nitrification (R = 0.76). Moreover, the fraction of NH-N transferred to MAOM was negatively correlated with potential net nitrification (R =  0.76). Due to physicochemical stabilization mechanisms, MAOM is considered to be resistant to mineralization. Carbon saturation theory suggests that the proportion of new C inputs that can be stabilized in MAOM decreases in proportion to the amount of C already present in the fraction; C inputs not stabilized in MAOM are susceptible to rapid mineralization. We demonstrate that NH-N stabilization in MAOM is similar to C stabilization in MAOM and associated with nitrification, thereby extending soil C saturation theory to mineral N and linking it with N retention and saturation theories. These data and concepts complement N saturation models that emphasize vegetation type, N input levels, and microbial turnover. Incorporating the OM retention capacity of fine mineral particles into N saturation theory can improve predictions of N saturation rates and resolve inconsistent relationships between soil organic matter, texture, N mineralization, and N retention.
40928242|Determination of the direct causal factors controlling wildfires is key to understanding wildfirevegetation-climate dynamics in a changing climate and for developing sustainable management strategies for biodiversity conservation and maintenance of long-term forest productivity. In this study, we sought to understand how the fire frequency of a large mixedwood forest in the central boreal shield varies as a result of temporal and spatial factors. We reconstructed the fire history of an 11,600-km area located in the northwestern boreal forest of Ontario, using archival data of large fires occurring since 1921 and dendrochronological dating for fires prior to 1921. The fire cycle decreased from 295 years for the period of 1820-1920 to approximately 100 years for the period of 1921-2008. Spatially, fire frequency increased with latitude, attributable to higher human activities that have increased fragmentation and fire suppression in the southern portion of the study area. Fire frequency also increased with distance to waterbodies, and was higher on Podzols that were strongly correlated with moderate drainage and coniferous vegetation. The temporal increase of fire frequency in the central region, unlike western and eastern boreal forests where fire frequency has decreased, may be a result of increased warm and dry conditions associated with climate change in central North America, suggesting that the response of wildfire to global climate change may be regionally individualistic. The significant spatial factors we found in this study are in agreement with other wildfire studies, indicating the commonality of the influences by physiographic features and human activities on regional fire regimes across the boreal forest. Overall, wildfire in the central boreal shield is more frequent than that in the wetter eastern boreal region and less frequent than that in the drier western boreal region, confirming a climatic top-down control on the fire activities of the entire North American boreal forest.
43677495|Recent studies report that multifunctionalitythe simultaneous provision of multiple ecosystem functionsin drylands depends on biodiversity. Others report that specific size distributions of vegetation patches indicate overall ecosystem health and function. Using a biocrust (micro-vegetation of mosses, lichens, and cyanobacteria) model system, and multivariate modeling, we determined the relative importance of biodiversity, patch-size distribution, and total abundance to nutrient cycling and multifunctionality. In most cases we explained at least 20%, and up to 65%, of the variation in ecosystem functions, and 42% of the variation in multifunctionality. Species richness was the most important determinant of C cycling, constituting an uncommonly clear link between diversity and function in a non-experimental field setting. Regarding C cycling in gypsiferous soils, we found that patch size distributions with a greater frequency of small to medium patches, as opposed to very small patches, were more highly functional. Nitrogen cycling was largely a function of biocrust cover in two soil types, whereas in gypsiferous soils, more central-tending patch size distributions were less functional with regards to N cycling. All three community properties were about equally important to multifunctionality. Our results highlight the functional role of biotic attributes other than biodiversity, and indicate that high cover and diversity, together with a particular patch-size distribution, must be attained simultaneously to maximize multifunctionality. The results also agree with trends observed with other terrestrial and aquatic communities that more biodiversity is needed to sustain multifunctionality compared to single functions considered independently.
27823661|Ephemeral wetlands in the Antarctic dry valleys alternate as sites of in situ net primary production when inundated and sources of organic matter for eolian export when desiccated. Evidence of this switch was obtained from observations made in two field seasons (2001 and 2003), coincidentally separated by a season of exceptionally high water yield from nearby glaciers (2002). In 2001, organic matter on soil surfaces adjacent to several ponds in Taylor Valley often exceeded 500 g C/m2. One pond had a total stock of approximately 1,388 kg organic C on soils within 20 m of the shoreline. These materials formed concentric rings around the pond, suggesting historically higher water levels, consistent with aerial photographs taken a decade earlier (1993). In 2003, these materials were submerged by water apparently received during the intervening year. Also in 2003, pitfall traps were placed along the edges of exposed organic matter adjacent to another pond to evaluate organic material erosion by wind. Over 4.5 days, traps collected 0.22  0.12 to 2.91  1.68 g C/m2, both confirming and quantifying wind transport. These results indicate that organic matter production and movement, driven by seasonal and decadal patterns of inundation/desiccation of small, ephemeral wetlands, overlay longer term (centuries and millennia) and larger scale (landscape) patterns of production and distribution driven by regional fluctuations in hydrological balance between glaciers and large freshwater lakes.
40603434|Over the past 50 years, China's ancient agricultural village landscapes have been transformed by unprecedented social technological, and ecological changes. Although these dense anthropogenic mosaics of croplands, settlements, and other used lands cover more than 2 million square kilometers across China, the nature of these changes and their environmental impacts remain poorly understood because their spatial scale is generally too small to measure accurately using conventional landchange methods. Here, we investigate the regional consequences of fine-scale landscape changes across China's village regions from 1945 to 2002 using high-resolution, field-validated ecological mapping of a regionally stratified sample of village landscapes at five sites across China, with uncertainties estimated using model-based resampling and Monte Carlo methods. From 1945 to 2002, built surface areas increased by about 7% (90% credible interval = 2-17%) across China's village regions, an increase equivalent to about three times the total urban area of China in 2000. Although this striking result is explained by a near doubling of already large village populations and by lower housing density per capita in rural areas, two unexpected changes were also observed: a 9% net increase (4% to + 21%) in regional cover by closed canopy trees and an 11 % net decline (30% to + 3%) in annual crops. These major regional changes were driven primarily by intensive finescale land-transformation processes including tree planting and regrowth around new buildings, cropland abandonment, and by the adoption of perennial crops and improved forestry practices. Moreover, the fragmentation, heterogeneity, and complexity of village landscapes increased over time. By coupling regional sampling and upscaling with observations in the field, this study revealed that fine-scale land-change processes in anthropogenie landscapes have the potential for globally significant environmental consequences that are not anticipated, measured, or explained by conventional coarser resolution approaches to global and regional change measurement or modeling.
40603501|The GLOBIO3 model has been developed to assess human-induced changes in biodiversity, in the past, present, and future at regional and global scales. The model is built on simple cause-effect relationships between environmental drivers and biodiversity impacts, based on state-of-the-art knowledge. The mean abundance of original species relative to their abundance in undisturbed ecosystems (MSA) is used as the indicator for biodiversity. Changes in drivers are derived from the IMAGE 2.4 model. Drivers considered are landcover change, land-use intensity, fragmentation, climate change, atmospheric nitrogen deposition, and infrastructure development. GLOBIO3 addresses (i) the impacts of environmental drivers on MSA and their relative importance; (ii) expected trends under various future scenarios; and (iii) the likely effects of various policy response options. GLOBIO3 has been used successfully in several integrated regional and global assessments. Three different global-scale policy options have been evaluated on their potential to reduce MSA loss. These options are: climate-change mitigation through expanded use of bio-energy, an increase in plantation forestry, and an increase in protected areas. We conclude that MSA loss is likely to continue during the coming decades. Plantation forestry may help to reduce the rate of loss, whereas climate-change mitigation through the extensive use of bioenergy crops will, in fact, increase this rate of loss. The protection of 20% of all large ecosystems leads to a small reduction in the rate of loss, provided that protection is effective and that currently degraded protected areas are restored.
3658917| To evaluate the effects of climate change on boreal forest ecosystems, both atmospheric CO
3658940|Applied ecological models that are used to understand and manage natural systems often rely on spatial data as input. Spatial uncertainty in these data can propagate into model predictions. Uncertainty analysis, sensitivity analysis, error analysis, error budget analysis, spatial decision analysis, and hypothesis testing using neutral models are all techniques designed to explore the relationship between variation in model inputs and variation in model predictions. Although similar methods can be used to answer them, these approaches address different questions. These approaches differ in (a) whether the focus is forward or backward (forward to evaluate the magnitude of variation in model predictions propagated or backward to rank input parameters by their influence); (b) whether the question involves model robustness to large variations in spatial pattern or to small deviations from a reference map; and (c) whether processes that generate input uncertainty (for example, cartographic error) are of interest. In this commentary, we propose a taxonomy of approaches, all of which clarify the relationship between spatial uncertainty and the predictions of ecological models. We describe existing techniques and indicate a few areas where research is needed.
3658651|Land-use change in the tropics is creating secondary forest at an unprecedented rate. In the tropical Americas, mature dry tropical forest is rapidly being converted to secondary forest during the fallow period of shifting cultivation. We investigated litter phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) dynamics in forests recovering from shifting cultivation of maize (corn) in three regions of the Southern Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. Our goal was to understand how nutrient and water availability affect forest recovery following conversion of mature forest to agricultural land. To investigate such changes at a regional scale, newly fallen litter was collected monthly along a seasonal, a successional, and a precipitation gradient. Reflecting possible P limitation, litter P concentration declined with forest age, while litter N concentration did not differ between age classes. Average litter P concentration from the southern, wettest region was 0.87 mg/g, almost twice the litter P concentration in the drier central and northern regions (0.44 and 0.45 mg/g, respectively). Average N concentrations of litter from the three regions ranged from 1.1% to 1.2%, with no regional differences. However, minima in both P and N concentration from all regions were pronouncedly timed with peak litterfall, suggesting nutrient retranslocation during periods of water stress. Additionally, successional differences in litter P were clearest during wetter months. P nutrient-use efficiency was lowest in the southern region and highest in the central and northern study regions. N nutrient-use efficiency was up to 40 times lower than P nutrient-use efficiency and showed no regional differences. Overall, our results suggest that litter nutrient dynamics in secondary dry tropical forests of the Southern Yucatan are strongly influenced by water and nutrient availability, especially P, as well as land-use history.
40296280|Plant biomass accumulation and productivity are important determinants of ecosystem carbon (C) balance during post-fire succession. In boreal black spruce (Picea mariana) forests near Delta Junction, Alaska, we quantified aboveground plant biomass and net primary productivity (ANPP) for 4 years after a 1999 wildfire in a welldrained (dry) site, and also across a dry and a moderately well-drained (mesic) chronosequence of sites that varied in time since fire (2 to ~116 years). Four years after fire, total biomass at the 1999 burn site had increased exponentially to 160  21 g m (mean  1SE) and vascular ANPP had recovered to 138  32 g m y, which was not different than that of a nearby unburned stand (160  48 g m y) that had similar pre-fire stand structure and understory composition. Production in the young site was dominated by re-sprouting graminoids, whereas production in the unburned site was dominated by black spruce. On the dry and mesic chronosequences, total biomass pools, including overstory and understory vascular and non-vascular plants, and lichens, increased logarithmically (dry) or linearly (mesic) with increasing site age, reaching a maximum of 2469  180 (dry) and 4008  233 g m (mesic) in mature stands. Biomass differences were primarily due to higher tree density in the mesic sites because mass per tree was similar between sites. ANPP of vascular and non-vascular plants increased linearly over time in the mesic chronosequence to 335  68 g m y in the mature site, but in the dry chronosequence it peaked at 410  43 g m y in a 15-year-old stand dominated by deciduous trees and shrubs. Key factors regulating biomass accumulation and production in these ecosystems appear to be the abundance and composition of re-sprouting species early in succession, the abundance of deciduous trees and shrubs in intermediate aged stands, and the density of black spruce across all stand ages. A better understanding of the controls over these factors will help predict how changes in climate and fire regime will affect the carbon balance of Interior Alaska.
40928222|We examine macronutrient limitation in New Zealand (NZ) lakes where, contrary to the phosphorus (P) only control paradigm, nitrogen (N) control is widely adopted to alleviate eutrophication. A review of published results of nutrient enrichment experiments showed that N more frequently limited lake productivity than P; however, stoichiometric analysis of a sample of 121 NZ lakes indicates that the majority (52.9%) of lakes have a mean ratio of total nitrogen (TN) to total phosphorus (TP) (by mass) indicative of potential P-limitation (> 15:1), whereas only 14.0% of lakes have mean TN:TP indicative of potential N-limitation (< 7:1). Comparison of TN, TP, and chlorophyll a data between 121 NZ lakes and 689 lakes in 15 European Union (EU) countries suggests that at the national scale, N has a greater role in determining lake productivity in NZ than in the EU. TN:TP is significantly lower in NZ lakes across all trophic states, a difference that is driven primarily by significantly lower in-lake TN concentrations at low trophic states and significantly higher TP concentrations at higher trophic states. The form of the TN:TP relationship differs between NZ and the EU countries, suggesting that lake nutrient sources and/or loss mechanisms differ between the two regions. Dual control of N and P should be the status quo for lacustrine eutrophication control in New Zealand and more effort is needed to reduce P inputs.
40296310|In a combined field and laboratory study in the southwest of Burkina Faso, we quantified soilatmosphere NO and NO exchange. NO emissions were measured during two field campaigns throughout the growing seasons 2005 and 2006 at five different experimental sites, that is, a natural savanna site and four agricultural sites planted with sorghum (n = 2), cotton and peanut. The agricultural fields were not irrigated and not fertilized. Although NO exchange mostly fluctuated between -2 and 8 g NO-N m h, peak NO emissions of 10-35 g NO-N m h during the second half of June 2005, and up to 150 g NO N m h at the onset of the rainy season 2006, were observed at the native savanna site, whereas the effect of the first rain event on N O emissions at the crop sites was low or even not detectable. Additionally, a fertilizer experiment was conducted at a sorghum field that was divided into three plots receiving different amounts of N fertilizer (plot A: 140 kg N ha; plot B: 52.5 kg N ha; plot C: control). During the first 3 weeks after fertilization, only a minor increase in NO emissions at the two fertilized plots was detected. After 24 days, however, NO emission rates increased exponentially at plot A up to a mean of 80 g NO-N m h, whereas daily mean values at plot B reached only 19 g NO-N m h, whereas NO flux rates at plot C remained unchanged. The calculated annual NO emission of the nature reserve site amounted to 0.52 kg NO-N ha a in 2005 and to 0.67 kg NO-N ha a in 2006, whereas the calculated average annual NO release of the crop sites was only 0.19 kg NO-N ha a and 0.20 kg NO-N ha a in 2005 and 2006, respectively. In a laboratory study, potential NO and NO formation under different soil moisture regimes were determined. Single wetting of dry soil to medium soil water content with subsequent drying caused the highest increase in NO and NO emissions with maximum fluxes occurring 1 day after wetting. The stimulating effect lasted for 3-4 days. A weaker stimulation of NO and NO fluxes was detected during daily wetting of soil to medium water content, whereas no significant stimulating effect of single or daily wetting to high soil water content (>67%
23325685|The quantity of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emissions from inland waters into the atmosphere varies, depending on spatial and temporal variations in the partial pressure of CO 2 (pCO 2 ) in waters. Using 22,664 water samples from 851 boreal lakes and 64 boreal streams, taken from different water depths and during different months we found large spatial and temporal variations in pCO 2 , ranging from below atmospheric equilibrium to values greater than 20,000 atm with a median value of 1048 atm for lakes (n = 11,538 samples) and 1176 atm for streams (n = 11,126). During the spring water mixing period in April/May, distributions of pCO 2 were not significantly different between stream and lake ecosystems (P > 0.05), suggesting that pCO 2 in spring is determined by processes that are common to lakes and streams. During other seasons of the year, however, pCO 2 differed significantly between lake and stream ecosystems (P < 0.0001). The variable that best explained the differences in seasonal pCO 2 variations between lakes and streams was the temperature difference between bottom and surface waters. Even small temperature differences resulted in a decline of pCO 2 in lake surface waters. Minimum pCO 2 values in lake surface waters were reached in July. Towards autumn pCO 2 strongly increased again in lake surface waters reaching values close to the ones found in stream surface waters. Although pCO 2 strongly increased in the upper water column towards autumn, pCO 2 in lake bottom waters still exceeded the pCO 2 in surface waters of lakes and streams. We conclude that throughout the year CO 2 is concentrated in bottom waters of boreal lakes, although these lakes are typically shallow with short water retention times. Highly varying amounts of this CO 2 reaches surface waters and evades to the atmosphere. Our findings have important implications for up-scaling CO 2 fluxes from single lake and stream measurements to regional and global annual fluxes.
3658696|Many types of ecosystems have little or no N
23501480|Wood ants (Formica rufa group) are regarded as key-stone species in boreal and mountain forests of Europe and Asia by their effect on ecosystem carbon (C) and nutrient pools and fluxes. To quantify the impact of their activity on boreal forest ecosystems, C, nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) and calcium (Ca) pools and fluxes in wood ant nests (WAN), and soil were assessed along a 5-, 30-, 60-, and 100-year-old Norway spruce (Picea abies L. Karsten) dominated successional gradient in eastern Finland. Amounts of C and nutrients in WAN increased with stand age, but contained less than 1 % of total C and nutrient pools in these stands. The CO 2 -efflux from nests was also insignificant, as compared to CO 2 -efflux from the forest floor. Annually, the amount of C brought by wood ants into their nests as honeydew, prey and nest-building materials ranged from 2.7 to 49.3 kg ha -1 C, but this is only 0.10.7% of the combined net primary production of trees and understorey in boreal forests. The difference between wood ant nest C inputs and outputs was very small in the younger-aged stands, and increased in the older stands. Carbon accumulation rates in nests over a 100 year period are estimated to be less than 10 kg ha -1 a -1 . In contrast to C, annual inputs of N, P, and K are larger compared to wood ant nest nutrient pool size, ranging from 3 to 6% of the annual tree stand and understorey uptake. This indicates a more rapid turnover and transport of N, P, and K out of WAN, and suggests that wood ants increase the cycling rate of these nutrients in boreal forests.
25470412|Industrial ecosystems are fruitful sites for examinating ecosystem management. Sewage treatment plants, breweries, biotechnology reactors, and ethanol production plants are all ecosystems-complex biophysical systems in which communities of bacteria, yeast, fungi, and other organisms are maintained to extract services or resources. The industrial analog to ecosystem management is "process control", where the industrial operator is the ecosystem manager. Process control is the management of a production process through the careful measurement and adjustment of its physical and chemical conditions. By analyzing the history of process control in activated sludge sewage treatment plants, I show the importance of craft knowledge in ecosystem management. Sewage treatment plant workers, through their experience in operating the plants, developed means of evaluating process conditions based on sight and smell rather than laboratory analysis. These craft techniques developed and persisted in spite of concerted efforts on the part of sanitary scientists to institute "scientific" control of the process based on laboratory analysis and models of microbial kinetics, suggesting that craft knowledge of ecosystem function can contribute to successful management. The craft knowledge of sewage plant workers is a kind of adaptive management, in which workers constantly adjust ecosystem parameters and observe the results. This approach is contrasted to "command and control" approaches to treatment plant automation, which have met with uneven success.
40928210|Theory predicts that wildfires will encounter spatial thresholds where different drivers may become the dominant influence on continued fire spread. Studying these thresholds, however, is limited by a lack of sufficiently detailed data sets. To address this problem, we searched for scale thresholds in data describing wildfire size at the Avon Park Air Force Range, south-central Florida. We used power-law statistics to describe the "heavy-tail" of the fire size distribution, and quantile regression to determine how the edges of data distributions of fire size were related to climate. Power-law statistics revealed a heavy-tail, a pattern consistent with scale threshold theory, which predicts that large fires will be rare because only fires that cross all thresholds will become large. Results from quantile regression suggested that different climate conditions served as critical thresholds, influencing wildfire size at different spatial scales. Modeling at higher quantiles (75th) implicated drought as driving the spread of larger fires, whereas modeling at lower quantiles ( 25th) implicated that wind governed the spread of smaller fires. Fires of intermediate size were negatively associated with relative humidity. Our results are consistent with the idea that fire spread involves scale thresholds, with the small-scale drivers allowing fires to spread after ignition, but with further spread only being possible when largescale drivers are favorable. These results suggest that other data sets that have heavy-tailed distributions may contain patterns generated by scale thresholds, and that these patterns may be revealed using quantile regression.
40603503|We examined the effects of elevated CO and O and their interaction on leaf litter chemistry and decomposition in pure stands of aspen (Populus tremuloides) and mixed stands of birch (Betula papyrifera) and aspen at the Aspen Free Air CO Enrichment (FACE) experiment. A 935-day in situ incubation study was performed using litterbags filled with naturally senesced leaf litter. We found that elevated CO had no overall effects on litter decomposition rates, whereas elevated O reduced litter mass loss (-13%) in the first year. The effect of O on mass loss disappeared in the second year. For aspen litter but not mixed birch-aspen litter, decomposition rates were negatively correlated with initial concentrations of condensed tannins and phenolics. Most soluble components (94% of soluble sugars, 99% of condensed tannins, and 91% of soluble phenolics) and any treatment effects on their initial concentrations disappeared rapidly. However, the mean residence time (MRT) of birch-aspen litter (3.1 years) was significantly lower than that of aspen litter (4.8 years). Further, because of variation in total litterfall, total litter mass, C, lignin and N remaining in the ecosystem was highest under elevated CO and lowest under elevated O during the incubation period. Our results indicate that elevated CO and O can alter short-term litter decomposition dynamics, but longer-term effects will depend more on indirect effects mediated through changes in forest community composition. Treatment effects on soluble components are likely to influence cyclical microbial processes and carbon pulses in the ecosystem only when coupled with increased (CO) or decreased (O) litter inputs.
23501498|Forest succession may cause changes in nitrogen (N) availability, vegetation and fungal community composition that affect N uptake by trees and their mycorrhizal symbionts. Understanding how these changes affect the functioning of the mycorrhizal symbiosis is of interest to ecosystem ecology because of the fundamental roles mycorrhizae play in providing nutrition to trees and structuring forest ecosystems. We investigated changes in tree and mycorrhizal fungal community composition, the availability and uptake of N by trees and mycorrhizal fungi in a forest undergoing a successional transition (age-related loss of early successional tree taxa). In this system, 8296% of mycorrhizal hyphae were ectomycorrhizal (EM). As biomass production of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) trees increased, AM hyphae comprised a significantly greater proportion of total fungal hyphae, and the EM contribution to the N requirement of EM-associated tree taxa declined from greater than 75% to less than 60%. Increasing N availability was associated with lower EM hyphal foraging and 15 N tracer uptake, yet the EM-associated later-successional species Quercus rubra was nonetheless a stronger competitor for 15 N than AM-associated Acer rubrum, likely due to the more extensive nature of the persistent EM hyphal network. These results indicate that successional increases in N availability and co-dominance by AM-associated trees have increased the importance of AM fungi in the mycorrhizal community, while down-regulating EM N acquisition and transfer processes. This work advances understanding of linkages between tree and fungal community composition, and indicates that successional changes in N availability may affect competition between tree taxa with divergent resource acquisition strategies.
23253729|The number of anthropogenic compounds that occur in aquatic ecosystems today is in the thousands, many at trace concentrations. One group of compounds that has captured the interest of both the scientific community and the general public is pharmaceutical and personal care products (PPCPs), for example, hormones, chemotherapy drugs, antihistamines, stimulants, antimicrobials and various cosmetic additives. Toxicology of some PPCPs is currently understood, but their effect on ecological structure and function of aquatic ecosystems is largely unknown. We review sources and fates of these compounds in aquatic ecosystems and discuss how methods developed to study aquatic ecosystem ecology can contribute to our understanding of the influence of PPCPs on aquatic ecosystems. We argue that aquatic ecology has a well-developed tool kit for measuring the transformation, fate, and transport of solutes using assays and experiments and that these methods could be employed to investigate how PPCPs impact ecological function. We discuss the details of these approaches and conclude that application of existing ecological methods to the study of this issue could substantially improve our understanding of the effect of these compounds in aquatic ecosystems.
23501299|Conceptual models of riverfloodplain systems and biogeochemical theory predict that floodplain soil nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) mineralization should increase with hydrologic connectivity to the river and thus increase with distance downstream (longitudinal dimension) and in lower geomorphic units within the floodplain (lateral dimension). We measured rates of in situ soil net ammonification, nitrification, N, and P mineralization using monthly incubations of modified resin cores for a year in the forested floodplain wetlands of Difficult Run, a fifth order urban Piedmont river in Virginia, USA. Mineralization rates were then related to potentially controlling ecosystem attributes associated with hydrologic connectivity, soil characteristics, and vegetative inputs. Ammonification and P mineralization were greatest in the wet backswamps, nitrification was greatest in the dry levees, and net N mineralization was greatest in the intermediately wet toe-slopes. Nitrification also was greater in the headwater sites than downstream sites, whereas ammonification was greater in downstream sites. Annual net N mineralization increased with spatial gradients of greater ammonium loading to the soil surface associated with flooding, soil organic and nutrient content, and herbaceous nutrient inputs. Annual net P mineralization was associated negatively with soil pH and coarser soil texture, and positively with ammonium and phosphate loading to the soil surface associated with flooding. Within an intensively sampled low elevation flowpath at one site, sediment deposition during individual incubations stimulated mineralization of N and P. However, the amount of N and P mineralized in soil was substantially less than the amount deposited with sedimentation. In summary, greater inputs of nutrients and water and storage of soil nutrients along gradients of riverfloodplain hydrologic connectivity increased floodplain soil nutrient mineralization rates.
41507785|To examine the influence of landscape characteristics and landscape position on aquatic biogeochemistry, we sampled a total of 76 lakes within 14 different lake-chains spanning the latitudinal extent of the high-elevation Sierra Nevada (California). We measured water chemistry, dissolved organic matter (DOM), nutrients, and biotic variables in study catchments that encompassed representative ranges of area (3-22 km), elevation (2,200-3,700 m.a.s.l), elevation change (50-700 m), and average slope (13-26). Hierarchical models were used to account for variability in biogeochemistry because they explicitly maintain the framework of lakes within individual lake-chains while accounting for variation among lake-chains. Unconditional means models, where lake-chain was a random effect, revealed significant differences among lake-chains for nearly all biogeochemical variables. Models explained 42-95% of this variability, with the majority of the variation (70%) explained by the among lake-chain component. To explore the amount of additional variation explained by lake landscape position, we added lake network number (LNN) to models. LNN explained a significant amount of additional variation (7% average) in 8 of 23 biogeochemical parameters. However, it explained more variability within individual lake-chains (75%), where among lake-chain differences did not obscure patterns. Patterns of increase with LNN were found for dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen, fluorescence of DOM, alkalinity, and bacterioplankton abundance, whereas nitrate and nitrogen to phosphorus nutrient ratios decreased. LNN explained variation because it served as a proxy for underlying catchment characteristics that changed consistently along downstream flow paths. To characterize the amount of variation explained by catchment characteristics alone, we fit a third model that included lake-chain as a random effect and landscape or lake morphometry attributes as fixed effects. Catchment characteristics explained about as much additional variation (6%) as LNN, but for substantially more biogeochemical parameters (18 out of 23). The catchment characteristics most predictive of biogeochemistry were land-cover factors delineating alpine and subalpine zones (elevation, slope, or proportions of rock or shrub cover). In general, catchment characteristics were stronger predictors of biogeochemistry than characteristics of lake morphometry, emphasizing the relative importance of landscape processes in snowmelt-dominated lake ecosystems.
23501497|Upland humid tropical forest soils are often characterized by fluctuating redox dynamics that vary temporally and spatially across the landscape. An increase in the frequency and intensity of rainfall events with climate change is likely to affect soil redox reactions that control the production and emissions of greenhouse gases. We used a 24-day rainfall manipulation experiment to evaluate temporal and spatial trends of surface soil (020 cm) redox-active chemical species and greenhouse gas fluxes in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. Treatments consisted of a high rainfall simulation (60 mm day -1 ), a fluctuating rainfall regime, and a control. Water addition generated high temporal and spatial variation in soil moisture (0.30.6 m 3 m -3 ), but had no significant effect on soil oxygen (O 2 ) concentrations. Extractable nitrate (NO 3 - ) concentrations decreased with daily water additions and reduced iron (Fe(II)) concentrations increased towards the end of the experiment. Overall, redox indicators displayed a weak, non-deterministic, nonlinear relationship with soil moisture. High concentrations of Fe(II) and manganese (Mn) were present even where moisture was relatively low, and net Mn reduction occurred in all plots including controls. Mean CO 2 fluxes were best explained by soil C concentrations and a composite redox indicator, and not water addition. Several plots were CH 4 sources irrespective of water addition, whereas other plots oscillated between weak CH 4 sources and sinks. Fluxes of N 2 O were highest in control plots and were consistently low in water-addition plots. Together, these data suggest (1) a relative decoupling between soil moisture and redox processes at our spatial and temporal scales of measurement, (2) the co-occurrence of aerobic and anaerobic biogeochemical processes in well-drained surface soils, and (3) an absence of threshold effects from sustained precipitation on redox reactions over the scale of weeks. Our data suggest a need to re-evaluate representations of moisture in biogeochemical models.
40296285|Agroecosystem health derives from a combination of biophysical and socioeconomic conditions that jointly influence such properties as productivity, sustainability, stability, and equitability. In this case study, we describe and analyze a method to quantify agroecosystem health through a combination of geographically referenced data at various spatial scales. Six key variables were hypothesized to provide a minimum set of conditions required to quantify agroecosystem health: soil health, biodiversity, topography, farm economics, land economics, and social organization. Each of these key variables was quantified by one or more attributes of a study area near Wooster, Ohio. Data sources included remote sensing, digital elevation models, soil maps, county auditor records, and a structured questionnaire of landowners in the study area. These data were combined by an analytical hierarchy process to yield an agroecosystem health index. The two steps in the process were first to combine the data at the pixel scale (30 m) into key variables with normalized values, and then to combine the key variables into the final index. The analytical hierarchy process model was developed by panels of experts for each key variable and by participants in the Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center's Agroecosystems Management Program for the final agroecosystem health index value. Observed spatial patterns of the agroecosystem health index were then analyzed with respect to the underlying data. Consistent with our hypothesis and the definition of agroecosystems, spatial patterns in the agroecosystem health index were an emergent property of combined socioeconomic and biophysical conditions not apparent in any of the underlying data or key variables. The method proposed in this study permits estimation of agroecosystem health as a function of specific underlying conditions, which combine in complex ways. Because values of the agroecosystem health index and the data underlying them can be analyzed for a particular landscape, the method proposed could be useful to policy makers, educators, service agencies, organizations, and the people who live in the area for finding opportunities to improve the health of their agroecosystem.
3658635|Soil texture plays a key role in belowground C storage in forest ecosystems and strongly influences nutrient availability and retention, particularly in highly weathered soils. We used field data and the Century ecosystem model to explore the role of soil texture in belowground C storage, nutrient pool sizes, and N fluxes in highly weathered soils in an Amazonian forest ecosystem. Our field results showed that sandy soils stored approximately 113 Mg
3658679|Studies of complex systems in other disciplines provide models and analytical strategies for understanding ecosystems and landscapes. The emphasis is on invariant properties, particularly processes that create scaling relations over wide ranges of scale, both in time and space. Translations between levels of ecological organization may be accomplished by succinct characterizations of processes that operate at fine scales, followed by renormalization group analysis to reveal patterns at broad scales. The self-organized patterns found in simple ecosystem, landscape, and forest-fire models may be explained as feedback between the system state and control parameters. Critical phenomena and phase transitions are expected in open, dissipative systems where long-range correlations defy predictions based on average population densities, a concept that becomes irrelevant as nonstationary conditions prevail. Thus, complexity theory for open systems relates to the ecology of self-entailing ecosystems that function as their own environments and thereby create constraints through emergence.
3658851| I used measures of
25470426|The US Environmental Protection Agency established the Adirondack Effects Assessment Program (AEAP) to evaluate and monitor the status of biological communities in lakes in the Adirondack region of New York that have been adversely affected by acid deposition. This program includes chemical analysis of 30 lakes, sampled two to three times each summer. Results of trends analysis for lake chemistry and chlorophyll a (chlor a) are presented for 1994 to 2003, and a general comparison is made with recent results of the Adirondack Long-Term Monitoring (ALTM) Program, which included chemical analysis of all but two of these lakes (plus an additional 24 lakes) monthly, year-round for 1992-2004. Increases in pH were found in 25 of the 30 AEAP lakes (P < 0.05) and increases in acid-neutralizing capacity (ANC) were found in 12 of the 30 lakes (P < 0.05). Concentrations of both SO and Mg decreased in 11 lakes (P < 0.05), whereas concentrations of NO decreased in 20 lakes (P < 0.05). Concentrations of NH decreased in 10 lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and in three other lakes based on P < 0.1. Concentrations of inorganic and organic monomeric aluminum generally were below the reporting limit of 1.5 mol L, but decreases were detected in four and five lakes, respectively (P < 0.1). Concentrations of chlor a increased in seven lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and two lakes at a significance level of P < 0.1. A significant inverse correlation was also found between chlor a and NO concentrations in nine lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and two lakes at a significance level of P < 0.1. Results of AEAP analysis of lake chemistry were similar to those of the ALTM Program, although decreases in SO concentrations were more evident in the year-round ALTM record. Overall, the results suggest (a) a degree of chemical recovery from acidification during the summer, (b) an increase in phytoplankton productivity, and (c) a decreasing trend in NO concentrations resulting from the increased productivity.
40603431|Free air CO enrichment (FACE) experiments in aggrading temperate forests and plantations have been initiated to test whether temperate forest ecosystems act as sinks for anthropogenic emissions of CO. These FACE experiments have demonstrated increases in net primary production and carbon (C) storage in forest vegetation due to increased atmospheric CO concentrations. However, the fate of this extra biomass in the forest floor or mineral soil is less clear. After 6 years of FACE treatment in a short-rotation poplar plantation, we observed an additional sink of 32 g C m y in the forest floor. Mineral soil C content increased equally under ambient and increased CO treatment during the 6-year experiment. However, during the first half of the experiment the increase in soil C was suppressed under FACE due to a priming effect, that is, the additional labile C increased the mineralization of older SOM, whereas during the second half of the experiment the increase in soil C was larger under FACE. An additional sink of 54 g C m y in the top 10 cm of the mineral soil was created under FACE during the second half of the experiment. Although, this FACE effect was not significant due to a combination of soil spatial variability and the low number of replicates that are inherent to the present generation of forest stand FACE experiments. Physical fractionation by wet sieving revealed an increase in the C and nitrogen (N) content of macro-aggregates due to FACE. Further fractionation by density showed that FACE increased C and N contents of the light iPOM and mineral associated intra-macroaggregate fractions. Isolation of micro-aggregates from macro-aggregates and subsequent fractionation by density revealed that FACE increased C and N contents of the light iPOM, C content of the fine iPOM and C and N contents of the mineral associated intra-micro-aggregate fractions. From this we infer that the amount of stabilized C and N increased under FACE treatment. We compared our data with published results of other forest FACE experiments and infer that the type of vegetation and soil base saturation, as a proxy for bioturbation, are important factors related to the size of the additional C sinks of the forest floor-soil system under FACE.
40603644|Livestock are the major consumers of water but also sustain millions of pastoralist and farming families. In regions where water is a scarce commodity, such as the Nile basin, there is a need for strategies to improve livestock water productivity (LWP). This study seeks to contribute to this need through a better understanding of livestock water use and productivity within the Nile basin and how this varies across the basin. We developed a spatial framework combining dynamic models of digestion in ruminants, crop water requirements (CWRs), and animal drinking water requirements to estimate spatial distribution of livestock water requirements in different livestock production systems (LPSs). We compared this with livestock production and water availability estimates within the basin. The results show that in most areas LWP is less than 0.1 USD/m, with only few areas showing a LWP of 0.5 USD/m and higher. This is largely related to very low livestock meat and milk production on one hand and very variable, but, in general, low feed water productivity (fWP). Total water need for feed production was estimated to be roughly 94 billion m, which amounts to approximately 5% of the total annual rainfall (68 billion m or 3.6% of total annual rainfall when excluding water for residues). Differences in LWP between systems and regions are large, suggesting considerable scope for improvements. We discuss the main factors influencing observed patterns of LWP and livestock water use and how this information can be used for developing strategies for increasing the water productivity of agricultural systems at the basin level.
40296307|In annual grasslands that experience a mediterranean-type climate, the synchrony between plant senescence and peak solar radiation over summer results in high litter sun exposure. We examined the decomposition of both shaded and sun-exposed litter over summer and inferred the effects of photodegradation from changes in mass loss and litter chemistry. The carry-over effects of summer litter exposure on wet season decomposition were also assessed, and the attenuation of photodegradation with litter layer thickness was used to estimate the proportion of grass litter lignin susceptible to photodegradation under different treatments of a factorial global change experiment. Over summer, mass loss from grass and forb litter exposed to ambient sunlight ranged from 8% to 10%, whereas lignin decreased in grass litter by approximately 20%. After one year of decomposition, mass losses from grass leaves exposed to sunlight over summer were more than double the mass losses from summer-shaded leaves. When shade litter layer thickness was varied, mass losses over summer for all treatments were also approximately 8%; however, lignin decreased significantly only in the low shade treatments (0-64 g m of shade litter). Aboveground production of annual grasses nearly quadrupled in response to the combined effects of N addition, elevated atmospheric CO, increased precipitation and warming. The estimated proportion of grass litter lignin experiencing full photodegradation ranged from 100% under ambient conditions to 31-62% in plots receiving the combined global change treatments. These results reveal an important role of sun exposure over summer in accelerating litter decomposition in these grasslands and provide evidence that future changes in the quantity of litter deposition may modulate the influence of photodegradation integrated across the litter layer.
25053816|Fine root length production, biomass production, and turnover in forest floor and mineral soil (0-30 cm) layers were studied in relation to irrigated (I) and irrigated-fertilized (IL) treatments in a Norway spruce stand in northern Sweden over a 2-year period. Fine roots (<1 mm) of both spruce and understory vegetation were studied. Minirhizotrons were used to estimate fine root length production and turnover, and soil cores were used to estimate standing biomass. Turnover was estimated as both the inverse of root longevity (RTL) and the ratio of annual root length production to observed root length (RTR). RTR values of spruce roots in the forest floor in I and IL plots were 0.6 and 0.5
3658868|The chemical composition of stream and soil water collected from two first-order stream basins in the Turkey Lakes Watershed (TLW) during the spring melt periods of 1992-1996 was examined to determine the flowpaths of snowmelt to the stream channel. Soil water was intensively sampled from within the soil organic layers as well as above (shallow soil water) and within (deep soil water) a compact basal till. Stream SiO
3658636|Eutrophication is arguably the biggest pollution problem facing estuaries globally, with extensive consequences including anoxic and hypoxic waters, reduced fishery harvests, toxic algal blooms, and loss of biotic diversity. However, estuaries vary greatly in their susceptibility to eutrophication. The Hudson River estuary receives very high levels of nutrient inputs yet in the past has shown relatively low rates of phytoplankton productivity and is generally considered to be only moderately susceptible to eutrophication. Here, we show that eutrophication and primary production in the Hudson estuary can increase dramatically in response to climatic variation and lowered freshwater discharge from the watershed. During dry summer periods in 1995 and 1997, rates of primary production were substantially higher than those measured during the 1970s, when freshwater discharge tended to be high. In the Hudson, low freshwater discharge increases water residence times and stratification and deepens the photic zone, all of which (alone or in combination) could lead to the observed increase in primary production. Our data, along with the prediction of most climate change models that freshwater discharge will be lower in the future during the summer in the northeastern US, suggest that the Hudson will become more susceptible to eutrophication. Eutrophication in an estuary is a complex process, and climate change is likely to affect each estuary differently due to interactions with nutrient loadings and physical circulation. Hence, it is essential to consider the effects of climate change in the context of individual estuarine functioning to successfully manage eutrophication in the future.
23501301|Wood nitrogen isotope composition ( 15 N) provides a potential retrospective evaluation of ecosystem N status but refinement of this index is needed. We calibrated current wood  15 N of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), an ectomycorrhizal tree species, against a productivity gradient of contrasting coastal forests of southern Vancouver Island (Canada). We then examined historical  15 N via increment cores, and tested whether wood  15 N corresponded with climatic fluctuations. Extractable soil N ranged from 11 to 43 kg N ha -1 along the productivity gradient, and was characterized by a progressive replacement of N forms (amino acids, NH 4 + and NO 3 - ). Current wood  15 N was significantly less depleted (-5.0 to -2.6 ) with increasing productivity, although linear correlations were stronger with  15 N (the difference between wood and soil  15 N) to standardize the extent of isotopic fractionation by ectomycorrhizal fungi. An overall decline in wood  15 N of 0.9  over the years 19002009 was detected, but trends diverged widely among plots, including positive, negative and no trend with time. We did not detect significant correlations in detrended wood  15 N with mean annual temperature or precipitation. The contemporary patterns in stand productivity, soil N supply and wood  15 N were moderately strong, but interpreting historical patterns in  15 N was challenging because of potential variations in N uptake related to stand dynamics. The lack of wood  15 N correlations with climate may be partly due to methodological limitations, but might also reflect the relative stability in N supply due to the overriding constraints of soil organic matter quantity and quality.
3658860|Herbivore grazing is increasingly used as a management tool to prevent the dominance of vegetation by tall grasses or trees. In this report, a model is described that is used to analyze plant-herbivore interactions and their scaling up to landscape scale. The model can be used to predict effects of herbivory on vegetation development. The model is an ecosystem model including modules for carbon and nitrogen cycling through plants, soil organic matter, and atmosphere. Plants compete for light and nitrogen. An herbivory module is included that implements selective foraging by a herbivore in a spatially heterogeneous area. Simulations were done to analyze the effects of herbivore density on vegetation dynamics, to analyze the impact of soil fertility on maximum herbivore density, and to analyze effects of herbivore density on landscapes. Two important points come forward from the model. Maximum herbivore abundance shows a hump-shaped curve along a soil fertility gradient. At higher soil fertility, light competition becomes more important. Herbivory interferes with plant competition, giving the tall, less palatable species a competitive advantage and thereby reducing the food quality and availability and hence the carrying capacity of the area. At a landscape scale, herbivory leads to increased heterogeneity. This increased heterogeneity may increase carrying capacity. The implications of these points for nature management are discussed.
40296360|In many coastal locations, seagrass meadows are part of a greater seascape that includes both marine and terrestrial elements, each linked to the other via the foraging patterns of consumers (both predators and herbivores), and the passive drift of seagrass propagules, leaves, roots and rhizomes, and seagrass-associated macroalgal detritus. With seagrasses declining in many regions, the linkages between seagrass meadows and other habitats are being altered and diminished. Thus, it is timely to summarize what is known about the prevalence and magnitude of cross-habitat exchanges of seagrass-derived energy and materials, and to increase awareness of the importance of seagrasses to adjacent and even distant habitats. To do so we examined the literature on the extent and importance of exchanges of biomass between seagrass meadows and other habitats, both in the form of exported seagrass biomass as well as transfers of animal biomass via migration. Data were most abundant for Caribbean coral reefs and Australian beaches, and organisms for which there were quantitative estimates included Caribbean fishes and North American migratory waterfowl. Overall, data from the studies we reviewed clearly showed that seagrass ecosystems provide a large subsidy to both near and distant locations through the export of particulate organic matter and living plant and animal biomass. The consequences of continuing seagrass decline thus extend far beyond the areas where seagrasses grow.
27823660|The non-native rusty crayfish (Orconectes rusticus) has invaded many lakes of northern Wisconsin, profoundly changing littoral zones in the process. There are other lakes that have been invaded, but do not exhibit these changes. We hypothesized that endogenous feedbacks could form involving rusty crayfish, the macrophytes they destroy, and Lepomis species whose abundance is positively related to macrophyte abundance and also consume juvenile crayfish. We assessed this proposal with long-term data from one lake, a regional comparative study, and a case study of Lepomis predation on crayfish. Through time and across lakes, abundances of rusty crayfish, littoral macrophytes and species of the genus Lepomis were related in a fashion that indicated a set of feedbacks that regulate the abundance of all three. Intense predation on juvenile crayfish by abundant Lepomis is capable of maintaining some crayfish populations at low abundance. Thus, some lakes display profound ecological changes where crayfish achieve high abundance, and others sustain crayfish at low abundance. Consequently, lakes invaded by rusty crayfish may take on the appearance of alternative ecological regimes. Direct experimentation is necessary to determine if, and under what conditions, a lake can exist in either regime.
25470353|Organic carbon (C) in lakes originates from two distinct sources-primary production from within the lake itself (autochthonous supply) and importation of organic matter from the terrestrial watershed (allochthonous supply). By manipulating the C of dissolved inorganic C, thereby labeling within-lake primary production, we examined the relative importance of autochthonous and allochthonous C in supporting bacterial production. For 35 days, NaHCO was added daily to two small, forested lakes. One of the lakes (Peter) was fertilized so that primary production exceeded total respiration in the epilimnion. The other lake (Tuesday), in contrast, was low in productivity and had high levels of colored dissolved organic C (DOC). To obtain bacterial C isotopes, bacteria were regrown in situ in particle-free lake water in dialysis tubes. The contribution of allochthonous C to bacterial biomass was calculated by applying a two-member mixing model. In the absence of a direct measurement, the isotopic signature of the autochthonous end-member was estimated indirectly by three different approaches. Although there was excess primary production in Peter Lake, bacterial biomass consisted of 43-46% allochthonous C. In Tuesday Lake more than 75% of bacterial growth was supported by allochthonous C. Although bacteria used autochthonous C preferentially over allochthonous C, DOC from the watershed contributed significantly to bacterial production. In combination with results from similar experiments in different lakes, our findings suggest that the contribution of allochthonous C to bacterial production can be predicted from ratios of chromophoric dissolved organic matter (a surrogate for allochthonous supply) and chlorophyll a (a surrogate for autochthonous supply).
23501447|Human activities are rapidly changing ecosystems, landscapes and ecosystem service provision, yet there remain significant gaps in our understanding of the spatial ecology of ecosystem services. These gaps hinder our ability to manage landscapes effectively for multiple ecosystem services. In particular, we do not fully understand how changes in landscape connectivity affect ecosystem service provision, despite theory suggesting that connectivity is important. Here, we perform a semi-quantitative review of the literature that investigates how landscape connectivity affects the provision of specific ecosystem services. The vast majority of studies, including reviews, models, and field studies, suggest that decreased connectivity will have negative effects on ecosystem service provision. However, only 15 studies provided empirical evidence of these effects. Average effect sizes from these 15 studies suggest negative effects of connectivity loss on pollination and pest regulation. We identify a number of significant gaps in the connectivity-ecosystem services literature, including: a lack of multiple service studies, which precludes identification of tradeoffs between services as connectivity changes; few studies that directly measure organism movement and its effects on ecosystem services; and few empirical studies that investigate the importance of abiotic flows on service provision. We propose that future research should aim to understand how different aspects of connectivity affect ecosystem service provision; which services are most influenced by connectivity; and how connectivity influences how humans access and benefit from ecosystem services. Studies that answer these questions will advance our understanding of connectivity-ecosystem service provision relationships and allow for better ecosystem and landscape management and restoration.
23501305|Fire is a globally important ecosystem process, and invasive grass species generally increase fire spread by increasing the fuel load and continuity of native grassland fuelbeds. We suggest that invasive grasses that are photosynthetically active, while the native plant community is dormant reduce fire spread by introducing high-moisture, live vegetation gaps in the fuelbed. We describe the invasion pattern of a high-moisture, coolseason grass, tall fescue (Schedonorus phoenix (Scop.) Holub), in tallgrass prairie, and use spatially explicit fire behavior models to simulate fire spread under several combinations of fuel load, invasion, and fire weather scenarios. Reduced fuel load and increased extent of tall fescue invasion reduced fire spread, but high wind speed and low relative humidity can partially mitigate these effects. We attribute reduced fire spread to asynchrony in the growing seasons of the exotic, coolseason grass, tall fescue, and the native, warmseason tallgrass prairie community in this model system. Reduced fire spread under low fuel load scenarios indicate that fuel load is an important factor in fire spread, especially in invaded fuel beds. These results present a novel connection between fire behavior and asynchronous phenology between invasive grasses and native plant communities in pyrogenic ecosystems.
40296352|The emerging spatial scale of interest for fluvial ecosystem studies and applications is the river basin. Although much focus has been directed toward habitat availability and nutrient cycling across the fluvial landscape, light availability has received considerably less attention and has not been assessed quantitatively at the basin-scale despite it being the primary energy source for aquatic ecosystems. We developed a basin-scale light availability model that couples readily available broad spatial data with easily measured synoptic data using a GIS framework and the principles of hydraulic geometry. We used this model to (i) quantify benthic light availability
3658743| Climate change may affect ecosystem functioning through increased temperatures or changes in precipitation patterns. Temperature and water availability are important drivers for ecosystem processes such as photosynthesis, carbon translocation, and organic matter decomposition. These climate changes may affect the supply of carbon and energy to the soil microbial population and subsequently alter decomposition and mineralization, important ecosystem processes in carbon and nutrient cycling. In this study, carried out within the cross-European research project CLIMOOR, the effect of climate change, resulting from imposed manipulations, on carbon dynamics in shrubland ecosystems was examined. We performed a
41505942|Patterns of mangrove vegetation in two distinct basins of Florida Coastal Everglades (FCE), Shark River estuary and Taylor River Slough, represent unique opportunities to test hypotheses that root dynamics respond to gradients of resources, regulators, and hydroperiod. We propose that soil total phosphorus (P) gradients in these two coastal basins of FCE cause specific patterns in belowground biomass allocation and net primary productivity that facilitate nutrient acquisition, but also minimize stress from regulators and hydroperiod in flooded soil conditions. Shark River basin has higher P and tidal hydrology with riverine mangroves, in contrast to scrub mangroves of Taylor basin with more permanent flooding and lower P across the coastal landscape. Belowground biomass (0-90 cm) of mangrove sites in Shark River and Taylor River basins ranged from 2317 to 4673 g m, with the highest contribution (62-85%) of roots in the shallow root zone (0-45 cm) compared to the deeper root zone (45-90 cm). Total root productivity did not vary significantly among sites and ranged from 407 to 643 g m y. Root production in the shallow root zone accounted for 57-78% of total production. Root turnover rates ranged from 0.04 to 0.60 y and consistently decreased as the root size class distribution increased from fine to coarse roots, indicating differences in root longevity. Fine root biomass was negatively correlated with soil P density and frequency of inundation, whereas fine root turnover decreased with increasing soil N:P ratios. Lower P availability in Taylor River basin relative to Shark River basin, along with higher regulator and hydroperiod stress, confirms our hypothesis that interactions of stress from resource limitation and long duration of hydroperiod account for higher fine root biomass along with lower fine root production and turnover. Because fine root production and organic matter accumulation are the primary processes controlling soil formation and accretion in scrub mangrove forests, root dynamics in the P-limited carbonate ecosystem of south Florida have a major controlling role as to how mangroves respond to future impacts of sealevel rise.
3658811|In the coming decades, a large fraction of the world's tropical forests will be fragmented into remnants surrounded by secondary vegetation, land-use areas, or roads. It is important to develop integrative tools to monitor the evolution of these fragmented ecosystems. We used the individual-oriented and process-based forest growth simulator Formind2.0 to investigate the spatial and temporal effects on standing biomass and functional diversity of various intensities and patterns of fragmentation within a forest landscape. The simulator was calibrated for an old-growth wet forest in French Guiana, South America. We found that the standing biomass of forest remnants was reduced significantly compared to a similar area of nonfragmented forest. When fewer but larger remnants were created rather than many small ones, the total loss in biomass and the increase in the abundance of early-successional species were significantly reduced, confirming that edge effects dominate the functioning of forest remnants. We also performed simulations of secondary succession after the landscape had been abandoned. The simulated recovery time in those secondary forests depends on both the size of cleared area and the spatial pattern of the remnant forests.
40928225|Wetlands are known to be important sources of dissolved organic matter (DOM) to rivers and coastal environments. However, the environmental dynamics of DOM within wetlands have not been well documented on large spatial scales. To better assess DOM dynamics within large wetlands, we determined high resolution spatial distributions of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations and DOM quality by excitation-emission matrix spectroscopy combined with parallel factor analysis (EEM-PARAFAC) in a subtropical freshwater wet-land, the Everglades, Florida, USA. DOC concentrations decreased from north to south along the general water flow path and were linearly correlated with chloride concentration, a tracer of water derived from the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA), suggesting that agricultural activities are directly or indirectly a major source of DOM in the Everglades. The optical properties of DOM, however, also changed successively along the water flow path from high molecular weight, peat-soil and highly oxidized agricultural soil-derived DOM to the north, to lower molecular weight, biologically produced DOM to the south. These results suggest that even though DOC concentration seems to be distributed conservatively, DOM sources and diagenetic processing can be dynamic throughout wetland landscapes. As such, EEM-PARAFAC clearly revealed that humic-enriched DOM from the EAA is gradually replaced by microbial- and plant-derived DOM along the general water flow path, while additional humic-like contributions are added from marsh soils. Results presented here indicate that both hydrology and primary productivity are important drivers controlling DOM dynamics in large wetlands. The biogeochemical processes controlling the DOM composition are complex and merit further investigation.
25053822|As defined by Ascher, biocomplexity results from a "multiplicity of interconnected relationships and levels." However, no integrative framework yet exists to facilitate the application of this concept to coupled human-natural systems. Indeed, the term "biocomplexity" is still used primarily as a creative and provocative metaphor. To help advance its utility, we present a framework that focuses on linkages among different disciplines that are often used in studies of coupled human-natural systems, including the ecological, physical, and socioeconomic sciences. The framework consists of three dimensions of complexity: spatial, organizational, and temporal. Spatial complexity increases as the focus changes from the type and number of the elements of spatial heterogeneity to an explicit configuration of the elements. Similarly, organizational complexity increases as the focus shifts from unconnected units to connectivity among functional units. Finally, temporal complexity increases as the current state of a system comes to rely more and more on past states, and therefore to reflect echoes, legacies, and evolving indirect effects of those states. This three-dimensional, conceptual volume of biocomplexity enables connections between models that derive from different disciplines to be drawn at an appropriate level of complexity for integration.
40928215|Future climate scenarios predict simultaneous changes in environmental conditions, but the impacts of multiple climate change drivers on ecosystem structure and function remain unclear. We used a novel experimental approach to examine the responses of an upland grassland ecosystem to the 2080 climate scenario predicted for the study area (3.5C temperature increase, 20% reduction in summer precipitation, atmospheric CO levels of 600 ppm) over three growing seasons. We also assessed whether patterns of grassland response to a combination of climate change treatments could be forecast by ecosystem responses to single climate change drivers. Effects of climate change on aboveground production showed considerable seasonal and interannual variation; April biomass increased in response to both warming and the simultaneous application of warming, summer drought, and CO enrichment, whereas October biomass responses were either non-significant or negative depending on the year. Negative impacts of summer drought on production were only observed in combination with a below-average rainfall regime, and showed lagged effects on spring biomass. Elevated CO had no significant effect on aboveground biomass during this study. Both warming and the 2080 climate change scenario were associated with a significant advance in flowering time for the dominant grass species studied. However, flowering phenology showed no significant response to either summer drought or elevated CO. Species diversity and equitability showed no response to climate change treatments throughout this study. Overall, our data suggest that single-factor warming experiments may provide valuable information for projections of future ecosystem changes in cool temperate grasslands.
40603635|Shifts between alternative stable states have become a focus of research in temperate shallow lakes. Here we show that sharp transitions between a clear, macrophyte-dominated state and a turbid state without submerged plants can also occur in tropical floodplain lakes, albeit driven by a largely different set of mechanisms. We show how a shallow lake in the Pantanal becomes covered by an exploding population of the submerged macrophyte Egeria najas Planchn as the water level rises during the annual high-water period. Water clarity increases spectacularly in this period due to flushing with river water that has lost most of its suspended matter during its slow flow over the flooded vegetated plains. A few months later when the water level drops again, the submerged plant beds die and decompose rapidly, triggering a phase of increasing turbidity. During this period an increase in dissolved organic matter, suspended matter, and phytoplankton biomass results in a sharp deterioration in water clarity. The concomitant water level decrease largely counteracts the effects on the underwater light climate, so that the amount of light at the bottom may not differ in comparison with the high-water period. Therefore, changes in light climate seem unlikely to be the sole driver of the vegetation shifts, and other mechanisms may prevent recovery of the submerged vegetation until the next high-water episode.Also, contrary to what is found in temperate lakes, there is no evidence for top-down control of phytoplankton biomass associated with the macrophyte-dominated state in our tropical lake.
43677510|Global wildfire frequency and extent are expected to increase under projected climate change in the twenty-first century, yet little is known about how human activities might affect this trend. In central Mongolia, there has been a 2.5C rise in spring and summer temperatures during the last 40 years and a decrease in moisture availability during the latter half of the twentieth century. Concurrently, Mongolia has experienced multiple shifts in socioeconomic systems during the twentieth century, most notably the establishment of a Soviet-backed communist economy in the 1920s and a rapid transition to privatization in the 1990s. Observed records of fire in the late twentieth century suggested that fire activity had increased, but no longterm data existed to place these trends in a historical context. Our objective was to identify spatial and temporal patterns in fire occurrence in the forest-steppe ecotone of the Tuul River watershed in the context of changing climatic and social conditions since 1875. We used fire-scarred trees to reconstruct past fire occurrence during the period 1875-2009. Our results indicate a significant association between human activity and fire occurrence independent of climatic variables. The greatest evidence for an anthropogenic fire regime exists following the transition to a free market economy during the early 1990s when land-use intensification near the capital city of Ulaanbaatar resulted in fire exclusion. We emphasize the importance of including socio-political variables in global models of wildfire potential, particularly where fuels limit fire activity.
23501481|In the region northeast of Wawa, Ontario (Canada), many circumneutral lakes downwind of a nearby iron-sintering plant were strongly acidified (pH 34) in response to the emissions of large amounts of sulfur dioxide from 19391998. Following closure of the plant in 1998, lakewater pH has returned to circumneutral conditions due to the high buffering capacity of the local geological substrate. Prior paleolimnological analyses of dated sediment cores have detected some biological recovery among algal communities (diatoms and chrysophytes), although they have not returned to their pre-impact assemblages. Here we take a broader ecosystem approach, and build upon the algal analyses by examining cladoceran sedimentary assemblages, and spectrally-inferred chlorophyll a and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from the same dated sediment cores. Similar to the algal communities, recent cladoceran sedimentary assemblages from three impacted lakes remain in an altered state relative to the pre-impact period (for example, increased relative abundances of Chydorus brevilabris and reduced cladoceran density in sediments). However, trends in the spectrally-inferred chlorophyll a and DOC were mixed, with long-term decreases in the study lake closest to the plant and long-term increases within the other lakes. Collectively, the multi-proxy paleolimnological analyses of these markedly acidified lakes demonstrate the delayed biological recovery from acidification (and differences in timing) across multiple trophic levels, despite the near-elimination of acid deposition almost a decade previously, which led to a striking recovery in lakewater pH and increased food availability.
41413964|Soil nitrogen (N) availability and pH constitute major abiotic controls over microbial community composition and activity in tundra ecosystems. On the other hand, mammalian grazers form an important biotic factor influencing resource coupling between plants and soil microorganisms. To investigate individual effects and interactions among soil nutrients, pH, and grazing on tundra soils, we performed factorial treatments of fertilization, liming, and grazer exclusion in the field for 3 years at 2 contrasting tundra habitats, acidic (N-poor) and non-acidic (N-rich) tundra heaths. The effects of all treatments were small in the nonacidic tundra heaths. In the acidic tundra heaths, fertilization decreased the fungal: bacterial ratio as analyzed by soil PLFAs, but there were no effects of liming. Fertilization increased soil N concentrations more drastically in ungrazed than grazed plots, and in parallel, fertilization decreased the fungal:bacterial ratio to a greater extent in the ungrazed plots. Liming, on the other hand, partly negated the effects of fertilization on both soil N concentrations and PLFAs. Fertilization drastically increased the activity of phenol oxidase, a microbial enzyme synthesized for degradation of soil phenols, in grazed plots, but had no effect in ungrazed plots. Taken together, our results demonstrate that grazers have the potential to regulate the fungal:bacterial ratio in soils through influencing N availability for the soil microorganisms.
25470380|Nutrient cycling and energy flow in ecosystems are tightly linked through the metabolic processes of organisms. Greater uptake of inorganic nutrients is expected to be associated with higher rates of metabolism [gross primary production (GPP) and respiration (R)], due to assimilatory demand of both autotrophs and heterotrophs. However, relationships between uptake and metabolism should vary with the relative contribution of autochthonous and allochthonous sources of organic matter. To investigate the relationship between metabolism and nutrient uptake, we used whole-stream and benthic chamber methods to measure rates of nitrate-nitrogen (NO-N) uptake and metabolism in four headwater streams chosen to span a range of light availability and therefore differing rates of GPP and contributions of autochthonous carbon. We coupled whole-stream metabolism with measures of NO-N uptake conducted repeatedly over the same stream reach during both day and night, as well as incubating benthic sediments under both light and dark conditions. NO-N uptake was generally greater in daylight compared to dark conditions, and although day-night differences in whole-stream uptake were not significant, light-dark differences in benthic chambers were significant at three of the four sites. Estimates of N demand indicated that assimilation by photoautotrophs could account for the majority of NO-N uptake at the two sites with relatively open canopies. Contrary to expectations, photo-autotrophs contributed substantially to NO-N uptake even at the two closed-canopy sites, which had low values of GPP/R and relied heavily on allochthonous carbon to fuel R.
3659028|Vegetation growth characteristics influence ecosystem biogeochemistry and must be incorporated in models used to project biogeochemical responses to climate variations. We used a multiple-element limitation model (MEL) to examine how variations in nutrient use efficiency (NUE) and net primary production to biomass ratio (nPBR) affect changes in ecosystem C stocks after an increase in temperature and atmospheric CO
3658989|We report a multiscale study in the Wind River Valley in southwestern Washington, where we quantified leaf to stand scale variation in spectral reflectance for dominant species. Four remotely sensed structural measures, the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), cover fractions from spectral mixture analysis (SMA), equivalent water thickness (EWT), and albedo were investigated using Airborne Visible Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (AVIRIS) data. Discrimination of plant species varied with wavelength and scale, with deciduous species showing greater separability than conifers. Contrary to expectations, plant species were most distinct at the branch scale and least distinct at the stand scale. At the stand scale, broadleaf and conifer species were spectrally distinct, as were most conifer age classes. Intermediate separability occurred at the leaf scale. Reflectance decreased from leaf to stand scales except in the broadleaf species, which peaked in near-infrared reflectance at the branch scale. Important biochemical signatures became more pronounced spectrally progressing from leaf to stand scales. Recent regenerated clear-cuts (less than 10 years old) had the highest albedo and nonphotosynthetic vegetation (NPV). After 50 years, the stands showed significant decreases in albedo, NPV, and EWT and increases in shade. Albedo was lowest in old-growth forests. Peak EWT, a proxy measure for leaf area index (LAI), was observed in 11 - to 30-year-old stands. When compared to LAI, EWT and NDVI showed exponentially decreasing, but distinctly different, relationships with increasing LAI. This difference is biologically important: at 95% of the maximum predicted NDVI and EWT, LAI was 5.17 and 9.08, respectively. Although these results confirm the stand structural variation expected with forest succession, remote-sensing images also provide a spatial context and establish a basis to evaluate variance within and between age classes. Landscape heterogeneity can thus be characterized over large areas-a critical and important step in scaling fluxes from stand-based towers to larger scales.
3659072|Causes and implications of spatial variability in postfire tree density and understory plant cover for patterns of aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and leaf area index (LAI) were examined in ninety 11-year-old lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm.) stands across the landscape of Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming, USA. Field studies and aerial photography were used to address three questions: (1) What is the range and spatial pattern of lodgepole pine sapling density across the burned Yellowstone landscape and what factors best explain this variability? (2) How do ANPP and LAI vary across the landscape and is their variation explained by abiotic factors, sapling density, or both? (3) What is the predicted spatial pattern of ANPP and LAI across the burned Yellowstone landscape? Stand density spanned six orders of magnitude, ranging from zero to 535,000 saplings ha
43677497|Global warming and land-use change could have profound impacts on ecosystem carbon (C) fluxes, with consequent changes in C sequestration and its feedback to climate change. However, it is not well understood how net ecosystem C exchange (NEE) and its components respond to warming and mowing in tallgrass prairie. We conducted two warming experiments, one long term with a 1.7C increase in a C-dominated grassland (Experiment 1), and one short term with a 2.8C increase in a C-dominated grassland (Experiment 2), to investigate main and interactive effects of warming and clipping on ecosystem C fluxes in the Great Plains of North America during 2009-2011. An infrared radiator was used to simulate climate warming and clipping once a year mimicked mowing in both experiments. The results showed that warming significantly increased ecosystem respiration (ER), slightly increased GPP, with the net outcome (NEE) being little changed in Experiment 1. In contrast, warming significantly suppressed GPP and ER in both years, with the net outcome being enhanced in NEE (more C sequestration) in 2009-2010 in Experiment 2. The C-dominated grassland showed a much higher optimum temperature for C fluxes than the C-dominated grassland, which may partly contribute to the different warming effects in the two experiments. Clipping significantly enhanced GPP, ER, and NEE in both experiments but did not significantly interact with warming in impacting fluxes in either experiment. The warming-induced changes in ecosystem C fluxes correlated significantly with C biomass proportion but not with warming-induced changes in either soil temperature or soil moisture across the plots in the experiments. Our results demonstrate that carbon fluxes in the tallgrass prairie are highly sensitive to climate warming and clipping, and C/C plant functional types may be important factor in determining ecosystem response to climate change.
3658653|Variations in plant community composition across the landscape can influence nutrient retention and loss at the watershed scale. A striking example of plant species importance is the influence of N
25470359|Declining biodiversity in agro-ecosystems, caused by intensification of production or expansion of monocultures, is associated with the emergence of agricultural pests. Understanding how land-use and management control crop-associated biodiversity is, therefore, one of the key steps towards the prediction and maintenance of natural pest-control. Here we report on relationships between land-use variables and arthropod community attributes (for example, species diversity, abundance and guild structure) across a diversification gradient in a rice-dominated landscape in the Mekong delta, Vietnam. We show that rice habitats contained the most diverse arthropod communities, compared with other uncultivated and cultivated land-use types. In addition, arthropod species density and Simpson's diversity in flower, vegetable and fruit habitats was positively related to rice cover in the local landscape. However, across the landscape as a whole, reduction in heterogeneity and the amount of uncultivated cover was associated, generally, with a loss of diversity. Furthermore, arthropod species density in tillering and flowering stages of rice was positively related to crop and vegetation richness, respectively, in the local landscape. Differential effects on feeding guilds were also observed in rice-associated communities with the proportional abundance of predators increasing and the proportional abundance of detritivores decreasing with increased landscape rice cover. Thus, we identify a range of rather complex, sometimes contradictory patterns concerning the impact of rice cover and landscape heterogeneity on arthropod community attributes. Importantly, we conclude that that land-use change associated with expansion of monoculture rice need not automatically impact diversity and functioning of the arthropod community.
3658785| In this study, we take an ecosystem approach to examine the degree of biological self-organization at the ecosystem level. An integrated set of indicators is derived from a theoretical framework and tested by field data from an ecosystem research project focusing on the Bornhved Lake district in northern Germany. This field test is based on a comparison of the self-organized phenomena that comprise the carbon, water, and energy budgets of two adjacent edaphically and climatically similar ecosystems, that have vastly different levels of human interference-a crop field and a beech forest. In terms of biomass storage, biologically incorporated nitrogen and phosphorus, species number, total ecosystem respiration per total biomass
40928239|Invasion of exotic forest pests and pathogens is a serious environmental problem for many forests throughout the world, and has been especially damaging to forests of eastern North America. We studied the impacts of an exotic pest/pathogen complex, the beech bark disease (BBD), in the Catskill Mountains of New York State, USA. In this region, BBD has caused a decline in the basal area of American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) over the last 60 years and this decline has been accompanied by an increase in the basal area of sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.). We studied the impacts of the BBD on carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycling using a series of stands that represented a sequence of disease impact and beech replacement by sugar maple. Our study showed that these longterm changes in tree species composition can lead to important changes in C and N cycling in the ecosystem, including an increase in litter decomposition, a decrease in soil C:N ratio, and an increase in extractable nitrate in the soil and nitrate in soil solution. Rates of potential net N mineralization and nitrification did not change across the BBD sequence, but the fraction of mineralized N that was nitrified increased significantly. Many of the observed changes in ecosystem function are larger in magnitude than those attributed to climate change or air pollution, suggesting that the impacts of invasive pests and pathogens on tree species composition could be one of the most important factors driving changes in C and N cycling in these forests in the coming decades.
40296301|Bythotrephes longimanus is an invertebrate predator that has invaded the North American Great Lakes and a number of inland lakes, where it preys on crustacean zooplankton. We examined the effect of Bythotrephes on two measures of ecosystem function during a four-month observational study of freshwater lakes on the boreal shield. Bythotrephes-in vaded lakes had significantly lower epilimnetic zooplankton abundance and production compared to reference lakes. On average, Bythotrephes consumed 34% of zooplankton production when it was present in lakes. There was some evidence of changes in the timing of zooplankton production, as well as shifts to cooler, less productive habitats, which may lessen the overall effect of the invader on the transfer of energy to higher trophic levels. We experimentally demonstrated a weak trophic cascade where invader predation reduced zooplankton biomass, and subsequently increased phytoplankton growth. However, the response was small in magnitude and not biologically relevant at the whole lake-scale. The most conspicuous effect of Bythotrephes that we measured was a diversion of energy away from native predators at higher trophic levels.
40296410|Effects of gap-size classes on litter decomposition rates were investigated in a high-elevation forest for 4 years by placing leaf litter of beech (Fagus orientalis Lipsky.), oak (Quercus robur L.), and chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) in (1) a closed canopy, (2) small gaps with a diameter of less than 15 m, (3) intermediate gaps with a diameter of 15-30 m, and (4) large gaps with a diameter of more than 30 m. The leaf litter placed under the closed canopy or within the small gaps decayed more rapidly than those in the intermediate or the large gaps for all three deciduous species. Among the microclimatic and soil factors, soil temperature was most strongly positively correlated with litter decomposition rates, and among the three species, initial lignin concentration was the best predictor of litter decomposition rates. Differences in litter decomposition rates among the four gap-size classes were generally significant, but varied among the three species. Litter with low lignin concentrations tended to be more responsive to canopy openings. Large forest gaps significantly reduced litter decomposition rates in this study by changing environmental conditions, especially by decreasing soil temperature and soil pH which reduced soil respiration rates. These changes may result in reduced nutrient cycling, carbon cycling, and organic matter turnover rates in these forest ecosystems.
3658742| Soil water chemistry and element budgets were studied at three northwestern European Calluna vulgaris heathland sites in Denmark (DK), The Netherlands (NL), and Wales (UK). Responses to experimental nighttime warming and early summer drought were followed during a two-year period. Soil solution chemistry measured below the organic soil layer and below the rooting zone and water fluxes estimated with hydrological models were combined to calculate element budgets. Remarkably high N leaching was observed at the NL heath with 18 and
27823684|Nutrient over-enrichment is a major threat to marine environments, but system-specific attributes of coastal ecosystems may result in differences in their sensitivity and susceptibility to eutrophication. We used fertilization experiments in nitrogen (N)- and phosphorus (P)-limited mangrove forests to test the hypothesis that alleviating different kinds of nutrient limitation may have different effects on ecosystem structure and function in natural systems. We compared a broad range of ecological processes to determine if these systems have different thresholds where shifts might occur in nutrient limitation. Growth responses indicated N limitation in Avicennia germinans (black mangrove) forests in the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), Florida, and P limitation at Twin Cays, Belize. When nutrient deficiency was relieved, A. germinans grew out of its stunted form by increasing wood relative to leaf biomass and shoot length relative to lateral growth. At the P-limited site, P enrichment (+P) increased specific leaf area, N resorption, and P uptake, but had no effect on P resorption. At the N-limited site, +N increased both N and P resorption, but did not alter biomass allocation. Herbivory was greater at the P-limited site and was unaffected by +P, whereas +N led to increased herbivory at the N-limited site. The responses to nutrient enrichment depended on the ecological process and limiting nutrient and suggested that N- versus P-limited mangroves do have different thresholds. +P had a greater effect on more ecological processes at Twin Cays than did +N at the IRL, which indicated that the P-limited site was more sensitive to nutrient loading. Because of this sensitivity, eutrophication is more likely to cause a shift in nutrient limitation at P-limited Twin Cays than N-limited IRL.
3658837|The invasion of north temperate forests by exotic species of earthworms is an important issue that has been overlooked in the study and management of these forests. We initiated research to address the hypothesis that earthworm invasion will have large consequences for nutrient retention and uptake in these ecosystems. In this special feature of Ecosystems, we present five papers describing results from our experiment. In this paper, we (a) introduce our experimental approach and conceptual model of how earthworms influence forest ecosystem processes, (b) describe the characteristics of the study areas and earthworm communities at our two study locations, and (c) provide a brief overview and synthesis of the main findings. The most dramatic effect of earthworm invasion was the loss of the forest floor at an undisturbed forest site, which altered the location and nature of nutrient cycling activity in the soil profile. Invasion changed soil total carbon (C) and phosphorus (P) pools, carbon-nitrogen (C:N) ratios, the loss and distribution of different soil P fractions, and the distribution and function of roots and microbes. Response to invasion varied with site characteristics and earthworm species. Our results suggest that exotic earthworm invasion is a significant factor that will influence the structure and function of northern temperate forest ecosystems over the next few decades. Regional evaluations of these forests will need to consider the presence or absence of earthworms along with other important ecosystem drivers, such as pollution, climate, and underlying soil characteristics.
27823760|West Coast prairies in the US are an endangered ecosystem, and effective conservation will require an understanding of how changing climate will impact nutrient cycling and availability. We examined how seasonal patterns and micro-heterogeneity in edaphic conditions (% moisture, total organic carbon, % clay, pH, and inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus) control carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycling in an upland prairie in western Oregon, USA. Across the prairie, we collected soils seasonally and measured microbial respiration, net nitrogen mineralization, net nitrification, and phosphorus availability under field conditions and under experimentally varied temperature and moisture treatments. The response variables differed in the degree of temperature and moisture limitation within seasons and how these factors varied across sampling sites. In general, we found that microbial respiration was limited by low soil moisture year-round and by low temperatures in the winter. Net nitrogen mineralization and net nitrification were never limited by temperature, but both were limited by excessive soil moisture in winter, and net nitrification was also inhibited by low soil moisture in the summer. Factors that enhanced microbial respiration tended to decrease soil phosphorus availability. Edaphic factors explained 76% of the seasonal and spatial variation in microbial respiration, 35% of the variation in phosphorus availability, and 29% of the variation in net nitrification. Much of the variation in net nitrogen mineralization remained unexplained (R2 = 0.19). This study, for the first time, demonstrates the complex seasonal controls over nutrient cycling in a Pacific Northwest prairie.
3658614|Residential development of lakeshores is expected to change a variety of key lake features that include increased nutrient loading, increased invasion rate of nonnative species, increased exploitation rates of fishes by anglers, and alteration of littoral habitats. All of these factors may alter the capacity of lakes to support productive native fish populations. Fourteen north temperate lakes were surveyed to examine how growth rates of two common fish species (bluegill sunfish, Lepomis macrochirus; largemouth bass, Micropterus salmoides) varied along a residential development gradient. Size-specific growth rates for both species were negatively correlated with the degree of lakeshore residential development, although this trend was not statistically significant for largemouth bass. On average, annual growth rates for bluegill sunfish were 2.6 times lower in heavily developed lakes than in undeveloped lakes. This effect of lakeshore development on fish growth was not size specific for bluegills between 60 and 140 mm in total length. An index of population production rate that accounted for both the size-specific growth rate and the size distribution of fishes showed that bluegill populations were approximately 2.3 times less productive in highly developed lakes than in undeveloped lakes. Our results suggest that extensive residential development of lakeshores may reduce the fish production capacity of aquatic ecosystems.
3658906|We analyzed data sets on phytomass production, basal cover, and monthly precipitation of a semiarid grassland in South Africa for good, medium, and poor rangeland condition (a) to investigate whether phytomass production per unit of basal cover differed among rangeland conditions, (b) to quantify the time scales of a carryover effect from production in previous months, and (c) to construct predictive models for monthly phytomass. Finally, we applied the best models to a 73-year data set of monthly precipitation data to study the long-term variability of grassland production. Our results showed that mean phytomass production per unit of basal cover did not vary significantly among the rangeland conditions-that is, vegetated patches in degraded grassland have approximately the same production as vegetated patches in grassland in good condition. Consequently, the stark decline in production with increasing degradation is a first-order effect of reduced basal area. Current-year precipitation accounted for 64%, 62%, and 36% of the interannual variation in phytomass production for good, medium, and poor condition, respectively. We found that 61%, 68%, and 33%, respectively, of the unexplained variation is related to a memory index that combines mean monthly temperature and a memory of past precipitations. We found a carryover effect in production from the previous 4 years for grassland in good condition and from the previous 1 or 3S month for grassland in medium and poor condition. The memory effect amplified the response of production to changes in precipitation due to alternation of prolonged periods of dry or wet years/months at the time scale of the memory. The interannual variability in phytomass production per unit basal cover (coefficient of variation [CV] = 0.42-0.50 for our 73-year prediction, CV = 0.57-0.71 for the 19-year data) was greater than the corresponding temporal variability in seasonal rainfall (CV = 0.29).
3658893|Plans for the restoration of aquatic ecosystems are increasingly focusing on the restoration and rehabilitation of self-sustaining native fish communities. Such efforts have not traditionally adopted an ecosystem-based perspective, which considers species as embedded within a broader food web context. In this study, we quantify food web changes in Lake Tahoe (California-Nevada) over the last century based on stable isotope analysis of museum-archived, preserved fish specimens collected during 4 historical periods and under present conditions. We also examine the contemporary food web of nearby Cascade Lake, which is free from most exotic species and contains a species assemblage resembling that of Lake Tahoe prior to historical species introductions. During the last century, the freshwater shrimp Mysis relicta and lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) have been introduced and established in Lake Tahoe, and the native top predator, Lahontan cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki henshawi; hereafter LCT), has been extirpated. Isotope analysis indicates that lake trout now occupy a trophic niche similar to that of historical LCT. Fish production has shifted from benthic to pelagic, corresponding with the eutrophication of Lake Tahoe during recent decades. The current Cascade Lake food web resembles that of the historical Lake Tahoe food web. Our isotope-based food web reconstructions reveal long-term food web changes in Lake Tahoe and can serve as the basis for setting historically relevant restoration targets. Unfortunately, the presence of nonnative species, particularly Mysis and lake trout, have dramatically altered the pelagic food web structure; as such, they are barriers to native fish community restoration. Fish community restoration efforts should focus on adjacent ecosystems, such as Cascade Lake, which have a high likelihood of success because they have not been heavily affected by nonnative introductions.
23325687|Forest ecosystems are the most important terrestrial carbon (C) storage globally, and presently mitigate anthropogenic climate change by acting as a large and persistent sink for atmospheric CO 2 . Yet, forest C density varies greatly in space, both globally and at stand and landscape levels. Understanding the multi-scale drivers of this variation is a prerequisite for robust and effective climate change mitigation in ecosystem management. Here, we used airborne light detection and ranging (Lidar) and a novel high-resolution simulation model of landscape dynamics (iLand) to identify the drivers of variation in C density for an old-growth forest landscape in Oregon, USA. With total ecosystem C in excess of 1 Gt ha -1 these ecosystems are among the most C-rich globally. Our findings revealed considerable spatial variability in stand-level C density across the landscape. Notwithstanding the distinct environmental gradients in our mountainous study area only 55.3% of this variation was explained by environmental drivers, with radiation and soil physical properties having a stronger influence than temperature and precipitation. The remaining variation in C stocks was largely attributable to emerging properties of stand dynamics (that is, stand structure and composition). Not only were density- and size-related indicators positively associated with C stocks but also diversity in composition and structure, documenting a close link between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. We conclude that the complexity of old-growth forests contributes to their sustained high C levels, a finding that is relevant to managing forests for climate change mitigation.
3659065|The accumulation and decomposition of coarse woody debris (CWD) are processes that affect habitat, soil structure and organic matter inputs, and energy and nutrient flows in forest ecosystems. Natural disturbances such as fires typically produce large quantities of CWD as trees fall and break, whereas human disturbances such as timber harvesting remove much of the CWD. Our objective was to compare the amount of CWD removed and left behind after clear-cutting to the amount consumed and left behind after natural fires in Rocky Mountain lodgepole pine. The masses of fallen logs, dead-standing trees, stumps, and root crowns more than 7.5 cm in diameter were estimated in clear-cut and intact lodgepole pine forests in Wyoming and compared to estimates made in burned and unburned stands in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), where no timber harvesting has occurred. Estimates of downed CWD consumed or converted to charcoal during an intense crown fire were also made in YNP. No significant differences in biomass of downed CWD more than 7.5 cm in diameter were detected between burned stands and those following a single clear-cut. However, the total mass of downed CWD plus the mass of snags that will become CWD was nearly twice as high in burned stands than in clear-cuts. In YNP, approximately 8% of the downed CWD was consumed by fire and an additional 8% was converted to charcoal, for an estimated loss of about 16%. In contrast, approximately four times more wood (70%) was removed by clear-cutting. Considering all CWD more than 7.5 cm in diameter that was either still present in the stand or removed by harvesting, slash treatment, or burning, clear-cut stands lost an average of
3658902|To elucidate the sensitivity of bog ecosystems to high levels of nitrogen (N) deposition, we investigated the fate of
3658718|Seagrass meadows within estuaries are highly sensitive to increased supplies of nitrogen (N). The urbanization of coastal watersheds increases the delivery of N to estuaries, threatening seagrass habitats; both seagrass production per unit area and the area of seagrass meadows diminish as land-derived N loads increase. The damaging effects of land-derived N loads may be lessened where there are fringes of coastal wetlands interposed between land and seagrass meadows. Data compiled from the literature showed that production per unit area by seagrasses increased and losses of seagrass habitat were lower in estuaries with relatively larger areas of fringing wetlands. Denitrification and the burial of land-derived N within fringe wetlands may be sufficient to protect N-sensitive seagrass habitats from the detrimental effects of land-derived N. The protection furnished by fringing wetlands may be overwhelmed by increases in anthropogenic N loads in excess of
25622898|Reliable soil organic carbon (SOC) stock measurements of all major ecosystems are essential for predicting the influence of global warming on global soil carbon pools, but hardly any detailed soil survey data are available for tropical montane cloud forests (TMCF) and adjacent high elevation grasslands above (puna). TMCF are among the most threatened of ecosystems under current predicted global warming scenarios. We conducted an intensive soil sampling campaign extending 40 km along the tree line in the Peruvian Andes between 2994 and 3860 m asl to quantify SOC stocks of TMCF, puna grassland, and shrubland sites in the transition zone between the two habitats. SOC stocks from the soil surface down to the bedrock averaged (standard error SE) 11.8 (1.5, N = 24) kg C/m in TMCF, 14.7 (1.4, N = 9) kg C/m in the shrublands and 11.9 (0.8, N = 35) kg C/m in the grasslands and were not significantly different (P > 0.05 for all comparisons). However, soil profile analysis revealed distinct differences, with TMCF profiles showing a uniform SOC distribution with depth, shrublands a linear decrease, and puna sites an exponential decrease in SOC densities with soil depth. Organic soil layer thickness reached a maximum (70 cm) at the upper limit of the TMCF and declined with increasing altitude toward puna sites. Within TMCF, no significant increase in SOC stocks with increasing altitude was observed, probably because of the large variations among SOC stocks at different sites, which in turn were correlated with spatial variation in soil depth.
43677527|Emergent aquatic insects can provide inputs to terrestrial ecosystems near lentic and lotie waterbodies, producing ecosystem linkages at the aquatic-terrestrial interface. Although aquatic insect emergence has been examined for individual sites, the magnitude and spatial distribution of this phenomenon has not been examined at regional spatial scales. Here, we characterize this cross-habitat linkage for the state of Wisconsin, USA (169,639 km). We combined GIS hydrological data with empirical data and predictive models of aquatic insect production to estimate annual aquatic emergence for the state of Wisconsin. Total emergence (lentic + lotie) was estimated to be about 6,800 metric tons of C y. Lentic systems comprised 79% of total estimated insect emergence, primarily due to the large amount of lake surface area relative to streams. This is due to both basic ecosystem geometry and the overall abundance of lakes in Wisconsin. Spatial variation was high: insect emergence in southwestern Wisconsin was dominated by streams, whereas for most of the rest of the state insect emergence was dominated by lakes. Lentic inputs to land were highly concentrated (relative to lotic inputs) because lakes have a high ratio of surface area to buffer area. Although less concentrated, the spatial extent of lotie influence was greater: statewide, four times more land area fell within the 100 m buffer zones of streams compared to lakes. Large waterbodies (almost all of which were lakes) were hotspots of insect emergence and input to land. Aquatic insect inputs exceed estimated terrestrial secondary production in 13% of buffer area, and by a factor of 100 or more adjacent to large lakes (>50,000 ha). The model sensitivity analysis showed that the simplifying assumptions and sources of potential error in the input variables had a minor impact on the overall results.
3659064|Ecosystems provide a wide range of services to society. Some forms of use affect the quality of the ecosystem, reducing its value for other users. This leads to a conflict of interest that is often settled through political processes, resulting in some form of regulation. We link theory on ecosystem response to theories from the socioeconomic branches of science to analyze the mechanisms behind two widespread problems associated with such political solutions. First, they often represent a compromise rather than an integrative solution. We demonstrate that, particularly in sensitive ecosystems, integrative solutions yield a higher average social utility and imply a higher ecosystem quality. Integrative solutions require insight into ecosystems responses to different forms of use and a complete overview of ecosystem services to society. Second, there is a systematic bias away from optimal shared use toward activities that are detrimental to ecosystem quality. This bias arises from the fact that utilities depending on ecosystem quality are often shared by large diffuse groups, whereas pollution and harvesting activities can usually be traced to relatively small and well-organized groups. Theory and data indicate that this type of concentrated group is systematically better at mustering political power than large groups, which find it difficult to realize collective action due to what is known in game theory as "free-rider problems." Our analysis suggests that the following three key ingredients are needed to correct the problems of bias and compromise: (a) clear insight into ecosystem dynamic responses to human use, (b) a broad inventory of credible measurements of ecosystem utilities, (c) avoidance of bias due to differences in the organizational power of groups of stakeholders. We argue that good ecosystem models, institutionalized ecosystem valuation, and innovative tax-setting schedules are essential to achieving a socially fair and sustainable use of ecosystems by societies. In addition, we highlight the fact that many environmental problems remain unresolved for a long time and briefly identify the social mechanisms responsible for this delay.
27823657|Alternative stable states in shallow lakes have received much attention over the past decades, but less is known about transient dynamics of such lakes in the face of stochastic perturbations such as incidental extremes in water levels driven by climatic variability. Here, we report on the ecosystem dynamics of 70 lakes in the floodplains of the Lower Rhine in The Netherlands from 1999 to 2004. In any particular year, most lakes were either in a macrophyte-dominated clear state or in a contrasting state with turbid water and sparse submerged macrophyte cover. Macrophyte dominance was positively related to the occurrence of drawdown, and negatively to lake surface area and mean depth. We did not find a relation with nutrient levels. Remarkably, shifts between the two contrasting states were common, and episodes of low water levels appear to be an important external driver. A dry period before our study and the exceptionally dry summer of 2003 caused wide-spread drawdown of floodplain lakes, resulting in establishment of submerged macrophytes in the next year upon refill. In the 4 years without drawdown, many lakes returned to a macrophyte-poor turbid state. Although some lakes turned turbid again quickly, others took several years to shift into the turbid state. A model analysis suggests that such prolonged transient vegetated states may be explained by the fact that the system dynamics slow down in the vicinity of the "almost stable" macrophyte-dominated state. Such a "ghost" of an equilibrium causes the system to stick around that state relatively long before slipping into the only true stable state. Our results support the idea that transient dynamics rather than equilibrium may be the key to understanding the overall state of some ecosystems. A practical implication of our findings is that artificial stabilization of the water level in shallow lakes may have been an important factor aggravating the permanent loss of submerged macrophytes due to cultural eutrophication.
3658882|The principle of competitive exclusion is a fundamental tenet of ecology. Commonly used competition models predict that at most only one species per limiting resource can coexist in the same environment at steady state; hence, the upper limit to species diversity depends only on the number of limiting resources and not on the rates of resource supply. We demonstrate that such model behavior is the result of both the growth and biomass turnover functions being proportional to the population biomass. We argue that at least the growth function should be a nonlinear, concave downward function of biomass. This form for the growth function should arise simply because of changes in the allometry of individuals in the population. With this change in model structure, we show that any number of species can coexist at an asymptotically stable steady state, even where there is only one limiting resource. Furthermore, if growth increases nonlinearly with biomass, the steady-state resource concentration and hence the potential for biodiversity increases as the resource supply rate increases.
41413037|The biodiversity of plankton ecosystems may no longer be a paradox, but the mechanisms that determine coexistence of explicit competitors in ecosystems remain a mystery. This is particularly so in ecosystem models, where competitive exclusion remains the dominant process. Climate and fisheries models require plankton ecosystem submodels that maintain competing plankton functional types extant, but coexistence can be reproduced in only a few 'just so' theoretical models. This limits our ability to predict the impacts of climate change and fisheries on ocean biota. We consider ecosystems of Kolmogorov form that conserve mass (CK systems). These systems describe a general class of ecosystem models that includes many theoretical and applied models. We develop heuristics that illuminate the key mechanisms that allow the coexistence of explicit competitors in these systems. These heuristics facilitate the identification of a large class of models with the structural property that all species coexist for all time. Our approach unifies many theoretical and applied models in a common biogeochemical framework, providing a powerful tool with the potential to generate new insights into the properties of complex ecosystems.
3658587|The objective of this study was to test for general effects of patch size, patch isolation, disturbance frequency, and patch life span, on density and diversity of organisms. We sampled predominantly herbivorous insects in 31 alfalfa fields that varied in size, isolation, frequency of disturbance by cutting, and age (number of years planted in alfalfa). Effects on insect relative density and diversity were examined at three taxonomic levels: all insects, eight separate orders, and six legume-specialist weevil species. We found that (a) more isolated alfalfa fields had higher overall insect richness, (b) fields with higher disturbance frequency had lower overall insect richness, and (c) fields of intermediate age had highest insect richness. In some cases these patterns were reflected at lower taxonomic levels, but in many cases they were not. These results are important because they indicate that, although we cannot simultaneously tailor a landscape for each of thousands of species, we may be able to produce desired effects at a more general level.
23501500|Understanding the interactions between predators and prey is essential for predicting the effects of disturbances to ecosystems. Motorways produce changes in the surrounding biotic and abiotic environment and hence have multiple impacts on wildlife. Some species are known to change their activity patterns in the proximity of motorways but the implications for the structure of food webs are unknown. This study analyzes the activity patterns of both mammalian predators and their prey species near nine motorways in attempt to clarify how motorways affect the mammalian community. Habitat structural variables were also sampled to control the effects of microhabitat on relative prey abundance. Our results revealed different activity patterns of both predators and prey near motorways that are independent of structural differences in microhabitat. Both the red fox and small mammals were found to use the zone close to the motorways more frequently, whereas lagomorphs and mustelids were less active there. These differences suggest that motorways favor the population of the predator that is most tolerant of human activity, the red fox, whose activity could have both direct and indirect effects on that of other members of the predator and prey community. On the one hand, the red fox seems to act as "top predator" and mustelids to follow a "safety match" strategy avoiding the area close to the motorway where fox is more active. On the other hand, abundances of prey species are negatively associated with the activity of their most frequent predators. This study is the first to assess how the proximity to motorways affects the activity of mammals in two levels of the food web and opens the field for research to understand the processes driving the detected patterns. Moreover, such effects at the community scale should be taken into account when evaluating the impacts of motorways on the surrounding ecosystems.
23325691|The reciprocal effects between sediment texture and seagrass density are assumed to play an important role in the dynamics and stability of intertidalcoastal ecosystems. However, this feedback relationship has been difficult to study empirically on an ecosystem scale, so that knowledge is mainly based on theoretical models and small-scale (experimental) studies. In this paper we apply a non-recursive structural equation model (SEM) to empirically investigate, at large spatial scale, the mutual dependence between seagrass (Zostera noltii) density and sediment texture, on the pristine, seagrass-dominated, intertidal mudflats of the Banc d'Arguin, Mauritania. The non-recursive SEM allows consistent estimation and testing of a direct feedback between sediment and seagrass whilst statistically controlling for the effects of nutrients and abiotic stress. The resulting model is consistent with the hypothesized negative feedback: grain size decreases with seagrass density, whereas fine grain size has a negative impact on seagrass density because it decreases pore water exchange which leads to hypoxic sediment conditions. Another finding is that seagrass density increases with sediment organic material content up to a threshold level beyond which it levels off. In combination with decreasing grain size, accumulation of organic matter creates hypoxic sediment conditions which lead to the production of toxic hydrogen sulfide which slows down seagrass growth. The negative feedback loop implies that intertidal Z. noltii modifies its own environment, thus controlling its growing conditions. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to demonstrate a direct negative feedback relationship in ecosystems by means of a non-recursive SEM.
25470356|In vegetated terrestrial ecosystems, carbon in below- and aboveground biomass (BGB, AGB) often constitutes a significant component of total-ecosystem carbon stock. Because carbon in the BGB is difficult to measure, it is often estimated using BGB to AGB ratios. However, this ratio can change markedly along resource gradients, such as water availability, which can lead to substantial errors in BGB estimates. In this study, BGB and AGB sampling was carried out in Eucalyptus populnea-dominated woodland communities of northeast Australia to examine patterns of BGB to AGB ratio and vertical root distribution at three sites along a rainfall gradient (367, 602, and 1,101 mm). At each site, a vegetation inventory was undertaken on five transects (100  4 m), and trees representing the E. populnea vegetation structure were harvested and excavated to measure aboveground and coarse-root (diameter of at least 15 mm) biomass. Biomass of fine and small roots (diameter less than 15 mm) at each site was estimated from 40 cores sampled to 1 m depth. The BGB to AGB ratio of E. populnea-dominated woodland plant communities declined from 0.58 at the xeric end to 0.36 at the mesic end of the rainfall gradient. This was due to a marked decline in AGB with increased aridity whereas the BGB was relatively stable. The vertical distribution of fine roots in the top 1 m of soil varied along the rainfall gradient. The mesic sites had more fine-root biomass (FRB) in the upper soil profile and less at depth than the xeric site. Accordingly, at the xeric site, a much larger proportion of FRB was found at depth compared to the mesic sites. The vertical distribution patterns of small roots of the E. populnea woodland plant communities were consistently)-shaped, with the highest biomass occurring at 15-30-cm depth. The potential significance of such a rooting pattern for grass-tree and shrub-tree co-existence in these ecosystems is discussed. Overall, our results revealed marked changes in BGB to AGB ratio of E. populnea woodland communities along a rainfall gradient. Because E. populnea woodlands cover a large area (96 M ha), their contribution to continental-scale carbon sequestration and greenhouse gas emission can be substantial. Use of the rainfall-zone-specific ratios found in this study, in lieu of a single generic ratio for the entire region, will significantly improve estimates of BGB carbon stocks in these woodlands. In the absence of more specific data, our results will also be relevant in other regions with similar vegetation and rainfall gradients (that is, arid and semiarid woodland ecosystems).
23501503|In Europe, many contemporary forests are not continuous, but were established on former agricultural land in territories of deserted villages. We aimed to explore whether medieval settlement activities of only 60 years irreversibly changed soil properties and whether these changes were reflected by contemporary forest vegetation. The research was performed in the deserted village of K, which existed from 1357 to ca 1420 AD in a current oak forest on sandy soils in the Czech Republic. We identified four former land-use types (building sites, courtyards, the village square, and gardens), where we analyzed soil properties and plant species composition of the forest understory. Higher concentrations of plant-available P, K, Ca, and Mg as well as the total concentrations of organic C and trace elements (As, Cd, Cu, and Zn) were recorded at former building sites with neutral soils, compared to the other former land-use types with acidic soils. The four-times higher species richness at former building sites compared to the former gardens indicate the strong effect of soil pH and nutrient availability on plant species composition, even on the spatial scale of several square metres. Understanding recent patterns in soil properties and biodiversity in Central European forests requires detailed knowledge of former land use over centuries. Analysis of contemporary soil properties together with analysis of vegetation can help to identify former land-use types in deserted villages.
40296385|The modification of large areas of tropical forest to agricultural uses has consequences for the movement of inorganic nitrogen (N) from land to water. Various biogeochemical pathways in soils and riparian zones can influence the movement and retention of N within watersheds and affect the quantity exported in streams. We used the concentrations of
25470397|From 1993 to 2001, we conducted a series of experiments in a mixed grassland-woodland system in central New South Wales (NSW) to quantify the interactions between red foxes and their prey and competitors. Foxes were removed from two areas around the perimeter of Lake Burrendong, and data were collected from these areas and a nearby untreated area before, during, and after the period of fox control. The arrival of rabbit hemorrhagic disease (RHD) in 1996 provided an opportunity to examine the interactive effects of controlling foxes and rabbits. In this landscape, typical of central NSW, (a) the fox population was not affected by a large reduction in the abundance of rabbits, or vice versa; (b) the cat population declined in areas where foxes were removed after the large RHD-induced reduction in rabbit numbers, but there was no consistent response to the removal of foxes; (c) the abundance of some macropod species increased in response only to the combined removal of rabbits and foxes; (d) there were no consistent changes in the abundances of bird species in response to the removal of either foxes or rabbits, but there were clear habitat differences in bird species richness; and (e) there was likely to be an increase in woody plant species after the large reduction in rabbit populations by RHD. We conclude that (a) long-term field experiments (more than 3 years) are required to quantify the indirect consequences of controlling foxes and rabbits, and (b) single manipulations, such as fox control or rabbit control, are not necessarily sufficient for the conservation of remnant woodland communities in southeastern Australia.
25470415|The Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries requires that managers take account of the environmental impacts of fishing. We develop linked state and pressure indicators that show the impact of bottomtrawling on benthic communities. The state indicator measures the proportion of an area where benthic invertebrate biomass (B) or production (P) is more than 90% of pristine benthic biomass
43677525|The importance of positive effects of ecosystem engineers on associated communities is predicted to increase with environmental stress. However, incorporating such non-trophic interactions into ecological theory is not trivial because facilitation of associated species is conditional on both the type of engineer and the type of abiotic stress. We tested the influence of two allogenic ecosystem engineers (lugworms, Arenicola marina L. and cockles, Cerastoderma edule L.) on the main primary producers (microphytobenthos) of the tidal flats, under different abiotic stresses controlled by reefs of blue mussels (Mytilus edulis L). We added 25,000 cockles or 2,000 lugworms to 5  5 m plots, both in a muddy site with high sedimentation rates located coastward of a mussel bed, and in a sandy site without mussels and characterized by high hydrodynamic stress. After a year, cockles increased algal biomass in the sandy area, but not in the mussel bed site, where high values were measured in all plots. However, lugworms did not affect algal biomass in any of the sites. Field measurements suggest that cockles outweighed negative effects of water currents in the site without mussels by locally increasing sediment stability, whereas mussels overruled the effects of cockles in the wake of the reefs through hydrodynamic stress alleviation and/or biodeposition. Our results suggest that non-trophic interactions by ecosystem engineering bivalves control primary production of intertidal areas, and that the sediment-stabilizing effect of cockles plays a crucial role where the overruling effects of mussel beds are not present.
41507779|Wildfires are an important agent in driving ecosystem function by altering vegetation structure and geomorphic processes. In recent decades, the number of wildfires and the total area burned has increased around the world, causing changes to natural regimes. In this study, we compared southand north-facing slopes, their vegetation structure and dynamics, and the sediment yield generated in areas burned a number of times at the Carmel Mountain ridge in northern Israel. Our underlying hypothesis was that repeated and frequent fires significantly alter eco-geomorphic processes, including prolonged periods of soil erosion and delayed recovery of tree species. We tested whether these phenomenon are characterized by different rates on opposing aspects. To study the long-term changes of the vegetation we analyzed a 21-year (1985-2006) chrono-sequence of satellite images, in areas burned once, twice, or three times. Additionally, we estimated vegetation structure and cover at high resolutions in monitoring plots following a fire in 2005 in areas burned once or twice during the last two decades. To evaluate the long-term dynamics of the system, specific transition probabilities among the vegetation types, as a function of the number of times each site was burned, were used to construct Markov-based transition matrices. Additionally, runoff and sediment have been collected after precipitation events from the plots. The satellite image classifications revealed changes in the composition of tree, shrub, and herbaceous vegetation cover following wildfire events. Satellite image analyses suggest that recurring fires within short-time intervals may significantly alter the long-term structure of the vegetation communities, and may eliminate woody vegetation from the landscape (both trees and shrubs). Consequently, this results in the establishment and dominance of herbaceous vegetation communities. Similar trends were observed in the high-resolution monitoring plots. Sediment yields differed significantly in areas burned twice on south-facing slopes, compared to lower values obtained in areas burned once, or located on northfacing slopes. Thus, we demonstrate that repeated fires may dramatically alter long-term trajectories of Mediterranean-type vegetation communities and ecosystems. This pattern, in turn, may have significant implications for the associated geo-morphological processes, especially runoff and erosion, and should be of particular concern given recent changes of fire regimes.
3658876|In their review of 24 studies of forest nitrogen (N) budgets, Binkley and others (2000) found that only one of them supported the conclusion that an N accumulation of more than 25 kg
41505915|Inorganic nitrogen (N) availability hot spots have been documented in many ecosystems, but major uncertainties remain about their prevalence, timing, and causes. Using a novel mathematical definition of hot spots, spatially explicit measurements of KCl-extractable inorganic N, 2-week soil incubations in the field, ion-exchange resins deployed for 1 year, and a set of associated biotic and abiotic variables, we investigated inorganic N availability hot spots within a 0.89 km alpine-subalpine ecosystem in the Colorado Front Range. Measurements of KCl-extractable NH and NO taken on multiple dates showed that hot spots of N availability were present in some but not all parts of the study site and that hot spot location varied over the course of the season. Ionexchange resins showed that over a 1-year period hot spots were important contributors to resinavailable N at the landscape level, with 14% of resin locations accounting for 58% of total resin-extractable inorganic N. The KCl-extractable and resinavailable inorganic N measurements showed that although spatial variation in the timing of hot spots (that is, hot moments) spreads the influence of short-term hot spots across the landscape to some extent, spatial variation in inorganic N availability is still important when integrated over 1 year. Resinavailable N was poorly correlated with the biotic and abiotic variables that we measured, though we did observe that hot spots of resin-available N were twice as common below tree and shrub canopies than in herbaceous areas. Beyond this relationship with canopy structure, neither KCl-extractable nor resinavailable inorganic N hot spots were closely related to plant species identity. Instead, the most effective predictor of KCl-extractable NH was the size of the soil organic matter (SOM) N pool, with nearly all hot spots appearing in soils that had greater than 1.4% SOM N.
40603647|Ice storms are an important and recurring ecological disturbance in many temperate forest ecosystems. In 1998, a severe ice storm damaged over ten million hectares of forest across northern New York State, eastern Canada, and New England impacting ecosystem processes across the landscape. This study investigated the spatial arrangement of forest damage at the terrestrial-aquatic interface, an ecological edge of importance to aquatic habitat and nutrient cycling. Vegetation indices, derived from satellite imagery and field-based data, were used to measure forest canopy damage across a 2045 km region in northern New York State affected by the 1998 storm. We investigated the forest damage gradient in the riparian zone of 13 stream segments of varying size (92.5 km total length) and 13 lakes (37.4 km of shoreline). Large streams (-fourth and fifth order), occurring in forests that received modest ice damage (< 15% disturbance coverage), exhibited significantly more damage in the riparian zone within 25 m of the water than in adjacent forest sections; F(3,12) = 7.3 P = 0.005. In similar moderately damaged forests, lake shorelines were significantly more damaged than interior forests; F(3,9) = 6.4 P = 0.013. Analysis of transitions in damage intensity revealed that canopy disturbance followed a decreasing trend (up to 3.5 times less) with movement inland from the terrestrial-aquatic interface. The observed predisposition of forest to disturbance along this ecosystem interface emphasizes the role of the physical landscape in concentrating the movement of wood from the forest canopy to locations proximate to water bodies, thus reinforcing findings that ice storms are drivers of ecological processes that are spatially concentrated.
25053854|Over the next century, ecosystems throughout the world will be responding to rapid changes in climate and rising levels of carbon dioxide, inorganic N and ozone. Because people depend on biological systems for water, food and other ecosystem services, predicting the range of responses to global change for various ecosystem types in different geographic locations is a high priority. Modeling exercises and manipulative experimentation have been the principle approaches used to place upper and lower bounds on community and ecosystem responses. However, each of these approaches has recognized limitations. Manipulative experiments cannot vary all the relevant factors and are often performed at small spatio-temporal scales. Modeling is limited by data availability and by our knowledge of how current observations translate into future conditions. These weaknesses would improve if we could observe ecosystems that have already responded to global change factors and thus presage shifts in ecosystem structure and function. Here we consider whether urban forest remnants might offer this ability. As urban forests have been exposed to elevated temperature, carbon dioxide, nitrogen deposition and ozone for many decades, they may be ahead of the global change "response curve" for forests in their region. Therefore, not only might forests along urbanization gradients provide us with natural experiments for studying current responses to global change factors, but their legacy of response to past urbanization may also constitute space-for-time substitution experiments for predicting likely regional forest responses to continued environmental change. For this approach to be successful, appropriate criteria must be developed for selecting forest remnants and plots that would optimize our ability to detect incipient forest responses to spatial variation in global change factors along urbanization gradients, while minimizing artifacts associated with remnant size and factors other than those that simulate global change. Studying forests that meet such criteria along urban-to-rural gradients could become an informative part of a mixed strategy of approaches for improving forecasts of forest ecosystem change at the regional scale.
3658832|A recently identified dinoflagellate, Pfiesteria piscicida, has been implicated as a cause of fishkills in mid-Atlantic estuaries. To date, field evidence supporting this argument has consisted of samples, analyzed for the presence of the toxic Pfiesteria forms, gathered during a fishkill. I present a probabilistic approach to examine the use of this kind of a posteriori information as an indication of cause and effect relationships. The analysis shows that the conditional probability of the presence of Pfiesteria after a fishkill has begun provides little support for Pfiesteria as a cause of fishkills, without also knowing the probability of Pfiesteria's presence under all conditions. Documenting the relative presence of toxic life stages during fishkills and under non-fishkill conditions will provide supporting evidence to assess Pfiesteria's role in fishkills. However, proving that Pfiesteria causes estuarine fishkills using only 'after the fact' information is essentially impossible.
25053828|Rivers and estuaries transport organic carbon (C) from terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems to the marine environment. During this transit, bacteria actively utilize and transform organic C, but few studies have measured detailed spatial variation in rates of bacterial respiration (BR) and production (BP). We measured BP at 39 stations and BR at 12 stations at monthly intervals along a 200-km reach of the tidal Hudson River. We observed strong repeatable spatial patterns for both BP and BR, with rates declining in the downstream direction. Bacterial Production had much greater dynamic range of spatial variation than BR. We used the detailed seasonal and spatial data on BP and BR to measure the total C demand of bacteria at several scales. We calculated volumetric and areal rates for 12 sections of the Hudson, as well as the total C utilization. Volumetric BR averaged 20
25053890|Resilience theory offers a framework for understanding the dynamics of complex systems. However, operationalizing resilience theory to develop and test empirical hypotheses can be difficult. We present a method in which simple systems models are used as a framework to identify resilience surrogates for case studies. The process of constructing a systems model for a particular case offers a path for identifying important variables related to system resilience, including the slowly-changing variables and thresholds that often are keys to understanding the resilience of a system. We develop a four-step process for identifying resilience surrogates through development of systems models. Because systems model development is often a difficult step, we summarize four basic existing systems models and give examples of how each may be used to identify resilience surrogates. The construction and analysis of simple systems models provides a useful basis for guiding and directing the selection of surrogate variables that will offer appropriate empirical measures of resilience.
3658816|Shrubs have invaded extensive areas of grassland in the southwestern United States. The zones of nutrient-rich soil found beneath plant canopies, referred to as "islands of fertility," are more intense and spaced father apart in shrubland than in grassland. This difference in the spatial pattern of soil nutrients may reinforce shrub invasion. Changes in water availability in the soil could also influence shrub invasion. Here we compare the spatial patterns of infiltration, defined as the total equivalent water depth entering the soil following individual rainfall events or summed over many events, at adjacent grass- and shrub-dominated sites in the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge. We use two infiltration data sets. First, following four rainfall events, we measured soil moisture and wetting front depth at 10-cm intervals along 24-m transects. We estimate infiltration from these data. Second, we use vertical arrays of soil moisture probes to compare infiltration between adjacent canopies and interspaces following 31 storms. In both the grassland and shrubland, infiltration is typically greater beneath plant canopies than beneath interspaces. Canopies are oases where soil moisture is higher than in the surrounding areas. However, infiltration is not greater beneath canopies when surface runoff is limited. In the shrubland, the canopy-interspace infiltration ratio increases as storm size, and therefore runoff, increases. This relationship also exists in the grassland, but it is not as strong or clear. The magnitude of spatial variability of infiltration is similar in shrubland and grassland. In addition, the distance over which infiltration is correlated is approximately 50 cm in both environments. Most of the spatial variability exists between the stem and canopy margin in the shrubland and straddling the canopy margin in the grassland. The most notable difference is that subcanopy oases are spread farther apart in the shrubland because canopies are separated by larger interspaces in this environment.
40928211|Many populations are exposed to naturally occurring or synthetic toxicants. An increasing number of studies demonstrate that the toxicity of such compounds is not only dependent on the concentration or load, but also on the biomass or density of exposed organisms. At high biomass, organisms may be able to alleviate adverse effects of the toxicant by actively lowering ambient concentrations through either a joint detoxification mechanism or growth dilution. We show in a conceptual model that this mechanism may potentially lead to alternative stable states if the toxicant is lethal at low densities of organisms, whereas a high density is able to reduce the toxicant concentrations to sublethal levels. We show in an example that this effect may be relevant in real ecosystems. In an earlier published experimental laboratory study, we demonstrated that ammonia toxicity in eelgrass is highly dependent on the eelgrass shoot density. Here, we used the results of these experiments to construct a model describing the complex interactions between the temperate seagrass Zostera marina and potentially lethal ammonia. Analyses of the model show that alternative stable states are indeed present over wide ranges of key-parameter settings, suggesting that the mechanism might be important especially in sheltered, eutrophicated estuaries where mixing of the water layer is poor. We argue that the same mechanism could cause alternative stable states in other biological systems as well.
40928243|In this study, we investigate changes in ecosystem structure that occur over a gradient of land-degradation in the southwestern USA, where shrubs are encroaching into native grassland. We evaluate a conceptual model which posits that the development of biotic and abiotic structural connectivity is due to ecogeomorphic feedbacks. Three hypotheses are evaluated: 1. Over the shrub-encroachment gradient, the difference in soil properties under each surface-cover type will change non-linearly, becoming increasingly different; 2. There will be a reduction in vegetation cover and an increase in vegetation-patch size that is concurrent with an increase in the spatial heterogeneity of soil properties over the shrub-encroachment gradient; and 3. Over the shrub-encroachment gradient, the range at which soil properties are autocorrelated will progressively exceed the range at which vegetation is autocorrelated. Field-based monitoring of vegetation and soil properties was carried out over a shrubencroachment gradient at the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in New Mexico, USA. Results of this study show that vegetation cover decreases over the shrub-encroachment gradient, but vegetation-patch size increases, with a concurrent increase in the spatial heterogeneity of soil properties. Typically, there are significant differences in soil properties between non-vegetated and vegetated surfaces, but for grass and shrub patches, there are only significant differences for the biotic soil properties. Results suggest that it is the development of larger, wellconnected, non-vegetated patches that is most important in driving the overall behavior of shrubdominated sites. Results of this study support the hypothesis that feedbacks of functional connectivity reinforce the development of structural connectivity, which increases the resilience of the shrubdominated state, and thus makes it harder for grasses to re-establish and reverse the vegetation change.
27823708|The boundaries between mangroves and freshwater hammocks in coastal ecotones of South Florida are sharp. Further, previous studies indicate that there is a discontinuity in plant predawn water potentials, with woody plants either showing predawn water potentials reflecting exposure to saline water or exposure to freshwater. This abrupt concurrent change in community type and plant water status suggests that there might be feedback dynamics between vegetation and salinity. A model examining the salinity of the aerated zone of soil overlying a saline body of water, known as the vadose layer, as a function of precipitation, evaporation and plant water uptake is presented here. The model predicts that mixtures of saline and freshwater vegetative species represent unstable states. Depending on the initial vegetation composition, subsequent vegetative change will lead either to patches of mangrove coverage having a high salinity vadose zone or to freshwater hammock coverage having a low salinity vadose zone. Complete or nearly complete coverage by either freshwater or saltwater vegetation represents two stable steady-state points. This model can explain many of the previous observations of vegetation patterns in coastal South Florida as well as observations on the dynamics of vegetation shifts caused by sea level rise and climate change.
25470360|Spatial variability in hydrological flowpaths and nitrate-removal processes complicates the overall assessment of riparian buffer zone functioning in terms of water quality improvement as well as enhancement of the greenhouse effect by NO emissions. In this study, we evaluated denitrification and nitrous oxide emission in winter and summer along two groundwater flowpaths in nitrate-loaded forested riparian buffer zone and related the variability in these processes to controlling soil factors. Denitrification and emissions of NO were measured using flux chambers and incubation experiments. In winter, NO emissions were significantly higher (12.4 mg N m d) along the flowpath with high nitrate removal compared with the flowpath with high nitrate removal compared with the flowpath with low nitrate removal (2.58 mg N m d). In summer a reverse pattern was observed, with higher NO emissions (13.6 mg N m d) from the flowpath with low nitrate-removal efficiencies. Distinct spatial patterns of denitrification and NO emission were observed along the high nitrate-removal transect compared to no clear pattern along the low nitrate-removal transect, where denitrification activity was very low. Results from this study indicate that spots with high nitrate-removal efficiency also contribute significantly to an increased NO emission from riparian zones. Furthermore, we conclude that high variability in NO:N ratio and weak relationships with environmental conditions limit the value of this ratio as a proxy to evaluate the environmental consequences of riparian buffer zones.
23501448|Climate change (CC) is projected to increase the frequency and severity of natural disturbances (wildfires, insect outbreaks, and debris flows) and shift distributions of terrestrial ecosystems on a global basis. Although such terrestrial changes may affect stream ecosystems, they have not been incorporated into predictions of stream responses to CC. Here, we introduce a conceptual framework to evaluate to what extent responses of streams to CC will be driven by not only changes in thermal and hydrologic regimes, but also alterations of terrestrial processes. We focused on forested watersheds of western North America because this region is projected to experience CC-induced alteration of terrestrial processes. This provided a backdrop for investigating interactive effects of climate and terrestrial responses on streams. Because stream responses to terrestrial processes have been well-studied in contexts largely independent of CC research, we synthesized this knowledge to demonstrate how CC-induced alterations of terrestrial ecosystems may affect streams. Our synthesis indicated that altered terrestrial processes will change terrestrialaquatic linkages and autotrophic production, potentially yielding greater sensitivity of streams to CC than would be expected based on shifts in temperature and precipitation regime alone. Despite uncertainties that currently constrain predictions regarding stream responses to these additional pathways of change, this synthesis highlighted broader effects of CC that require additional research. Based on widespread evidence that CC is linked to changing terrestrial processes, we conclude that accurate predictions of CC effects on streams may be coupled to the accuracy of predictions for long-term changes in terrestrial ecosystems.
3658689|Nitrate leaching to streams is a sensitive indicator of the biogeochemical status of forest ecosystems. Two primary theories predicting long-term (decadal) changes in nitrate loss rates (N saturation theory and the nutrient retention hypothesis) both predict increasing dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) losses for watershed 6 (W6), the biogeochemical reference watershed at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest (HBEF). Measured values, however, have declined substantially since measurements began in the mid-1960s. Are these theories wrong, or are there other important controls on DIN losses at the annual to decadal time scale that have obscured the tendency toward higher losses over time? We tested the individual and combined effects of several forms of disturbance on DIN loss rates from northern hardwood forests by comparing predictions from a relatively simple model of forest carbon, nitrogen, and water dynamics (PnET-CN) with the long-term record of annual DIN loss from W6 at HBEF. Perturbations tested include interannual climate variation, changes in atmospheric chemistry (
3658871|Critical soil acidification loads (CL) and related exceedances, base cation leaching, N leaching, and forest biomass growth were evaluated for a well-studied deciduous forest site within the Turkey Lake Watershed (TLW). The assessment was done by way of steady-state mass balance considerations of primary inputs for N, Ca, Mg, and K. Critical soil acidification rates were found to be high at TLW. These rates amounted to about 900 or 1400 eq/(ha yr) depending on the forest harvesting regime (selective harvest or maintainence of old-growth condition, respectively). The TLW soil substrate (till derived from basaltic bedrock) appeared to weather well, thereby buffering against natural and anthropogenic soil acidification. As a consequence, soil acidification exceedances were estimated to be relatively low for both the selective harvest and old growth scenarios. In comparing overall S and N input/output data (atmospheric deposition data vs soil leaching losses), we found that the TLW site was essentially near or at S and N saturation. We also found that atmospheric deposition and soil leaching rates have been declining since about 1980. The figures for CL and exceedance varied to some extent depending on the quality of input data and related uncertainties. Estimated exceedances were increased when dry- as well as wet-deposition rates were considered. They varied depending on the yearly sulfate/nitrate/base-cation mix, and the definition of "acceptable acid leaching." In addition, they were dependent on whether the forest was considered old growth or not.
41505964|Net ecosystem exchange (NEE) of two contrasting mountain forest types in Switzerland was measured by eddy covariance (EC) measurements at a montane mixed forest, the Lgeren forest, over 5 years (2005-2009), and at a subalpine coniferous forest the Seehornwald in Davos, over 12 years (1997-2009). NEE was validated against annual carbon (C) storage estimates, based on biometrie and soil respiration measurements as well as soil C modeling. There different approaches were used: (1) calculation of net ecosystem production by quantifying C pools and fluxes, (2) assessment of change in wood biomass and soil C storage (C), and (3) application of biomass expansion factors. Although biometric estimates were sensitive to assumptions made for each method applied, they agreed well with measured NEE. Comparing 5 years of EC measurements available at both sites during 2005 and 2009 revealed that NEE, gross primary production (GPP), and total ecosystem respiration (TER) were larger at the Lgeren forest compared to the Davos forest, whereas soil respiration and soil C sequestration were of similar magnitudes. Both sites showed similar annual trends for NEE, GPP and TER, but different seasonal courses, due to different responses to environmental conditions (temperature, soil moisture, and radiation). Differences in the magnitude as well as in the seasonally of ecosystem CO exchange could mainly be attributed to tree phenology, productivity, and carbon allocation patterns, which are combined effects of tree type (broad-leaved vs. coniferous trees) and site-specific climatic conditions. Flux differences between the two mountain sites highlight the importance of considering the role of altitude in ecological studies and modeling.
41413045|Litter decomposition is a central focus of ecosystem science because of its importance to biogeochemical pools and cycling, but predicting dryland decomposition dynamics is problematic. Some studies indicate photodegradation by ultraviolet (UV) radiation can be a significant driver of dryland decomposition, whereas others suggest soil-litter mixing controls decomposition. To test the influence of soil coverage on UV photodegradation of litter, we conducted a controlled environment experiment with shrub (Prosopis velutina) leaf litter experiencing two UV levels and three levels of coverage with dry sterile soil. Under these conditions, decomposition over 224 days was enhanced by UV, but increasing soil coverage strongly and linearly diminished these effects. In a complementary study, we placed P. glandulosa leaf litter in different habitats in the field and quantified litter surface coverage by soil films. After 180 days, nearly half of the surface area of litter placed under shrub canopies was covered by a tightly adhering film composed of soil particles and fungal hyphae; coverage was less in grassy zones between shrubs. We propose a conceptual model for the shifting importance of photodegradation and microbial decomposition over time, and conclude that (1) soil deposition can ameliorate the direct effects of UV photodegradation in drylands and (2) predictions of C losses based solely on UV effects will overestimate the importance of this process in the C cycle. An improved understanding of how development of the soil-litter matrix mediates the shift from abiotic (photodegradation) to biotic (microbial) drivers is necessary to predict how ongoing changes in land cover and climate will influence biogeochemistry in globally extensive drylands.
40296314|We used tree-ring dating and C dating to document the temporal distribution and carbon storage of oak (Quercus spp.) wood in trees recruited and buried by streams and floodplains in northern Missouri, USA. Frequency distributions indicated that oak wood has been accumulating in Midwest streams continually since at least the late Pleistocene, about 14,000 calibrated radiocarbon years before present (cal. BP). The median residence time of an oak bole in the study streams was 3,515 years (n = 200). More than 30% of sampled oak wood entered the floodplain sediments and stream waters within the last 1,000 years, though very few samples dated to the last 150 years. Temporal variability in the record of oak recruitment to streams suggests a potentially strong influence from shifts in climate and fluvial processes, although other possible influences are addressed. Recent human impacts on streams have altered the dynamics of oak input and sequestered carbon with unknown long-term consequences. The long duration of carbon storage (mean age = 1,960 years) in this waterlogged environment appears to be strongly limited by decreasing wood density resulting from reductions in cell wall thickness. Lack of evidence of biotic degradation may imply that wood loss is largely due to abiotic hydrolyses. These findings document a continuous and long-term form of carbon storage that is sensitive to changes in climate and anthropogenic alteration of fluvial processes.
3658770|The problem of multiple scales permeates the study of ecological process and pattern, uniting aspects of space, time, and organizational complexity. In particular, it supports the maintenance of biological diversity, allowing for the magnification of underlying patterns of variation in the physical environment to create many resources from few, through the evolutionary diversification of species' niches and life histories. Specialization to particular stages of a successional gradient facilitates coexistence of multiple types in the presence of uncorrelated local disturbances, such as gap formation, which reinitiate successional sequences. Superimposed upon such successional dynamics are the effects of multiple stable states and multiple successional pathways (Levin 1976), which increase diversity even more. Multiple stable states more generally raise the possibility of sudden flips of systems from one stable configuration to another, and with such changes may come huge changes in the biotic composition. On larger spatial scales and longer time scales, these flips may become correlated, resulting in the transformation of the landscape, or may result in sustained spatiotemporal mosaics of states. Instability at the local level may lead to the maintenance of biodiversity on broader scales. Finally, the ultimate scale mismatch involves that between the dynamics of natural systems and the cultural dynamics of human societies. Our ability to live sustainably in a global commons is dependent upon adjusting normative behavior, and tightening feedback loops more generally, so that individual actions serve the common good.
41505906|Abandonment of arable land is often assumed to happen mostly in marginal areas where the conditions for arable cultivation are relatively unfavorable, whereas arable expansion is expected to occur mostly in areas with favorable conditions. This assumption, used in many land-use change forecasts, was never properly tested, mainly because the relatively short period of full-coverage land-use inventories did not allow a systematic analysis of the phenomena. With the recent release of CORINE 2006 this has changed. In this article, we explore the typical locations of abandonment and expansion of arable land in Europe during the period 1990-2006 by means of logistic regressions. More specifically, we test whether or not locations of abandonment and expansion can be inferred from the location characteristics of arable land in 1990. If the above assumption holds, this should be the case. We demonstrate that although arable expansion indeed happens in locations that resemble the bulk of arable land in 1990 (the presumably favorable locations), arable abandonment does not necessarily happen in locations that resemble the bulk of uncultivated land (that is, the presumably unfavorable locations). In other words, the assumption does not hold. Particularly, areas close to the road network were found to be associated with both high abandonment rates and high expansion rates, which suggest that abandonment is not limited to areas that are marginal in terms of agricultural production.
25622870|High amounts of phosphorus (P) are in soil of former farmland due to previous fertilizer additions. Draining these residues would provide conditions for grassland plant species diversity restoration amongst other ecosystem benefits. Nitrogen (N) fertilization followed by cutting with subsequent removal of biomass has been suggested as a P residue removal method. We present a general model of N and P ecosystem cycling with nutrients coupled in plant biomass. We incorporate major P pools and biological and physico-chemical fluxes around the system together with transfers into and out of the system given several decades of management. We investigate conditions where N addition and cutting accelerate fertilizer P draining. Cutting does not generally accelerate soil P depletion under short-term management because the benefits of biomass removal through decreased P mineralization occur on too long a timescale compared to cutting's impact on the ability of plants to deplete nutrients. Short-term N fertilization lowers soil fertilizer P residues, provided plant growth remains N limited. In such situations, N fertilization without biomass removal increases soil organic P. Some scenarios show significant reductions in available P following N addition, but many situations record only marginal decreases in problematic soil P pools compared to the unfertilized state. We provide explicit conditions open to experimental testing. Cutting might have minimal adverse impacts, but will take time to be successful. N fertilization either alone or in combination with cutting is more likely to bring about desired reductions in P availability thus allowing grassland restoration, but might have undesired ecosystem consequences.
43677526|Coastal ecosystems are energetically connected through passive transport of nutrients but also by migrations of motile organisms. Mangroves are highly productive tropical ecosystems that replenish offshore populations of many species, but we know little about the degree to which this production is fuelled by prey from mangroves, especially in the cases in which mangroves are only accessible at high tide. Different results have been obtained on the importance of mangroves as feeding habitats, confounded by differences in species composition, seascape configuration, and methodology. In the present study, we took a more holistic approach by exploring reliance by fishes on man-groves as a feeding habitat at multiple ecological levels: from individuals to species to communities in mangrove ecosystems from across the globe, using a stable isotope approach. A two end-member mixing model showed a wide range (12-72%) in degree of reliance on mangrove food sources by fishes from different studies across the globe. However, analyzed at the levels of individual fish and species, reliance was low (for example, <25% for 55% of the species worldwide, or <50% for 85% of species, respectively) even though they were collected from sites that differed in geographical location, tidal regime, seascape structure, and species composition. The high fisheries productivity of mangroves appears to be energetically supported largely by food sources from adjacent habitats. In light of the ongoing rapid demise and fragmentation of mangrove and adjacent ecosystems, loss of ecosystem connectivity is likely to affect the productivity and functioning of tropical coastal ecosystems and the services they provide.
25470396|Invasive species have the capacity to substantially alter soil processes, including rates of litter decomposition. Currently, the few remaining native-dominated lowland wet forests in Hawai'i are being invaded by Falcataria moluccana, a large, fast-growing, N-fixing tree. In this study, we sought to determine the extent to which Falcataria invasion alters decomposition in these lowland wet forests, and whether changes resulted from differences in litter substrate type, lava flow age and type, forest stand type and associated soil biota, or some combination of these factors. We measured decomposition rates and nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) dynamics of Metrosideros polymorpha and Falcataria leaf litter in native-dominated and Falcataria-invaded stands on 48- and 300-year-old a'a lava flows and a 213-year-old phoehoe flow in the Puna district of eastern Hawai'i. Despite significant differences in the initial quality of Metrosideros and Falcataria litter, in nearly all cases mass remaining of the two litter types did not differ within a given forest stand, whether native-dominated or invaded. Instead, stand type accounted for large differences in the decomposition of both litter types, and litter decomposed two to 10 times faster in Falcataria-invaded stands than it did in their native-dominated counterparts on each lava flow. Dynamics of N (that is, immobilization or release) during decomposition were affected by stand, litter, and lava flow type; P dynamics were affected by stand and flow type, but not litter type. Although not definitive proof of causality, the decay rates of both species were positively correlated to previously measured inputs of N mass and P mass via litterfall as well as availability of soil N and P, characteristics that all increased substantially with Falcataria invasion. Given the degree of change to a host of ecosystem processes, including decomposition, after invasion by Falcataria, these transformed forest ecosystems may best be viewed as fundamentally new and different, in both structure and function, from the native ecosystems they have replaced.
27823692|Ecological transition zones are increasingly recognized as systems that play a critical role in controlling or modifying flows of organisms, materials, and energy across landscapes. Many concepts describing transitional areas have been proposed over the years, such as the prevalent and durable ecotone concept. Confusion among ecologists and land managers about transition zone concepts and the isolation of studies that use only one transition concept can hinder unified progress in understanding these key systems. Currently, a movement toward conceptual synthesis under the umbrella concept of 'ecological boundary' is underway. Here we examine the history and theoretical baggage of the ecotone, riparian zone, and several other concepts. Subsequently, we present a conceptual cluster analysis, which facilitates a better understanding of the similarities and differences between boundary and transition concepts. We emphasize the hierarchical nature of these concepts: higher-level synthetic concepts can be used in the development of theory, whereas lower-level concepts allow more specificity and the formulation of operational definitions. Finally, we look briefly at the utility and future use of boundary and transition zone concepts.
23253736|In tropical mountains, trees are the dominant life form from sea level to above 4,000-m altitude under highly variable thermal conditons (range of mean annual temperatures: <8 to > 28C). How light-saturated net photosynthesis of tropical trees adapts to variation in temperature, atmospheric CO 2 concentration, and further environmental factors, that change along elevation gradients, is not precisely known. With gas exchange measurements in mature trees, we determined light-saturated net photosynthesis at ambient temperature (T) and [CO 2 ] (A sat ) of 40 tree species from 21 families in tropical mountain forests at 1000-, 2000-, and 3000-m elevation in southern Ecuador. We tested the hypothesis that stand-level averages of A sat and leaf dark respiration (R D ) per leaf area remain constant with elevation. Stand-level means of A sat were 8.8, 11.3, and 7.2 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 ; those of R D 0.8, 0.6, and 0.7 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 at 1000-, 2000-, and 3000-m elevation, respectively, with no significant altitudinal trend. We obtained coefficients of among-species variation in A sat and R D of 2053% (n = 1016 tree species per stand). Examining our data in the context of a pan-tropical A sat base for maturedata tropical trees (c. 170 species from 18 sites at variable elevation) revealed that area-based A sat decreases in tropical mountains by, on average, 1.3 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 per km altitude increase (or by 0.2 mol CO 2 m -2 s -1 per K temperature decrease). The A sat decrease occurred despite an increase in leaf mass per area with altitude. Local geological and soil fertility conditions are related foliar N and P concentrations considerably influenced the altitudinal A sat patterns. We conclude that elevation is an important influencing factor of the photosynthetic activity of tropical trees. Lowered A sat together with a reduced stand leaf area decrease canopy C gain with elevation in tropical mountains.
3659042|In western Oregon, forest ecosystem processes are greatly affected by patterns of stand replacement disturbance. A spatially explicit characterization of clear-cut logging and wildfire is a prerequisite to understanding the causes and consequences of disturbance in this region. We analyzed stand replacement disturbance over 4.6 million forested hectares of three major provinces in western Oregon between 1972 and 1995, contrasting the relative amounts of wildfire and harvest in each province and comparing harvest statistics among the dominant land ownership categories. Clear-cut harvest and wildfire occurred over 19.9% and 0.7% of the study area, respectively. The moist Coast Range Province (CRP) was dominated by private industrial (PI) ownerships and had the greatest concentration of cutting. The relatively dry Klamath Mountains Province (KMP) and the climatically moderate Western Cascades Province (WCP) were dominated by public landowners and had lower concentrations of cutting and larger amounts of wildfire than the CRP. Rates of harvest over time generally followed similar trends across landowners; it was lowest in the early 1970s, peaked in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and then decreased to near 1970s levels by the mid-1990s. PI landowners had harvest rates that were about two and one-half times as high as public owners throughout the study period. Public and private nonindustrial (PNI) owners tended to have relatively small cutting units that remained spatially dispersed throughout the study period, whereas the PI owners had larger individual cutting units that tended toward spatial aggregation over time. Comparing the managed disturbance regimes with historical wild disturbance regimes can help us to understand the relative impact of management regimes on ecosystems.
40296413|Deadwood is an important component for conserving carbon stock and maintaining species diversity. Scarce information is, at present, available concerning the amount and composition of deadwood in Mediterranean-type ecosystems. In this study, 21 sites were chosen to characterize different forest types among representative managed and unmanaged stands in the Central Apennines (Molise, Italy). Data were collected to assess living tree and deadwood volumes, and the relative abundance of different deadwood components in decay classes. The information gathered was related to human-induced disturbances on a regional scale. There were substantial differences in the deadwood volumes between managed and unmanaged stands, although this was not the case in the living tree volumes. Deadwood volumes were larger in unmanaged than in managed stands. In particular, large amounts of deadwood were found in managed Mediterranean and Anatolian fir forests, probably due to minimal management practices. Dead downed trees were less represented in managed forests as they are normally removed to facilitate logging activities. Logs occurred more frequently in managed stands as logging residues left on site. Most deadwood material belonged to early decay classes. Proportionally larger amounts of deadwood ascribed to class 1 in managed stands correlated with recent cutting activities. The relatively large amounts of deadwood attributed in unmanaged stands to class 3 demonstrate its longer persistence in unmanaged forests. This study represents a first systematic analysis of deadwood occurrence in a typical Mediterranean forest area, and should be useful in defining important objectives for sustainable forest management.
41505996|We investigated the influence of rainfall attributes on litter decomposition over an 8-year period in a well-preserved tropical dry forest ecosystem in western Mexico. We examined the relationship between the size and number of rainfall events and rainy-season litter decomposition rates and determined if this relationship varied along a landscape gradient. A mass balance approach was used to estimate decomposition rate in four permanent 2,400 m plots located in two small watersheds. Watershed I included three plots in different landscape positions (upper, middle, and lower) in the elevation gradient, whereas Watershed IV included one plot in the middle position. Surface litter C mass was lower in the rainy than in the dry season in all plots in response to seasonal fluctuations in rainfall. The frequency of small ( 5 mm) and medium (5.1-9.9 mm) size rainfall events largely did not correlate with litter decomposition, but the frequency of large events (10 mm) had a positive correlation with decomposition rates (P < 0.05), except in plot IV (P < 0.1). Decomposition rates were similar among plots at the different landscape positions within Watershed I (P > 0.05). The relevance of large rainfall events (10 mm) in rainyseason litter decomposition suggests that changes in the precipitation regime which alter the frequency of these rainfall pulses or increase their variability would affect the vulnerability of the litter C and nutrient pools to extreme events.
40296415|Massive anthropogenic acceleration of the global nitrogen (N) cycle has stimulated interest in understanding the fate of excess N loading to aquatic ecosystems. Nitrate (NO) is traditionally thought to be removed mainly by microbial respiratory denitrification coupled to carbon (C) oxidation, or through biomass assimilation. Alternatively, chemolithoautotrophic bacterial metabolism may remove NO by coupling its reduction with the oxidation of sulfide to sulfate (SO). The NO may be reduced to N or to NH , a form of dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA). The objectives of this study were to investigate the importance of S oxidation as a NO removal process across diverse freshwater streams, lakes, and wetlands in southwestern Michigan (USA). Simultaneous NO removal and SO production were observed in situ using modified "push-pull" methods in nine streams, nine wetlands, and three lakes. The measured SO production can account for a significant fraction (25-40%) of the overall NO removal. Addition of 15 NO and measurement of 15 NH production using the push-pull method revealed that DNRA was a potentially important process of NO removal, particularly in wetland sediments. Enrichment cultures suggest that Thiomicrospira denitriflcans may be one of the organisms responsible for this metabolism. These results indicate that NO-driven SO production could be widespread and biogeochemically important in freshwater sediments. Removal of NO by DNRA may not ameliorate problems such as eutrophication because the N remains bio-available. Additionally, if sulfur (S) pollution enhances NO removal in freshwaters, then controls on N processing in landscapes subject to S and N pollution are more complex than previously appreciated.
25053847|The amount, chemical composition, and source of dissolved organic carbon (DOC), together with in situ ultraviolet (UV-B) attenuation, were measured at 1-2 week intervals throughout the summers of 1999, 2000, and 2001 at four sites in Rocky Mountain National Park (Colorado). Eight additional sites, four in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Park/John Muir Wilderness (California) and four in Glacier National Park (Montana), were sampled during the summer of 2000. Attenuation of UV-B was significantly related to DOC concentrations over the three years in Rocky Mountain
40603614|The seasonality of pan-tropical wet forests has been highlighted by recent remote sensing and eddy flux measurements that have recorded both increased and sustained dry-season gross primary productivity (GPP). These observations suggest that wet tropical forests are primarily light limited and that the mechanisms for resilience to drought and projected climate change must be considered in ecosystem model development. Here we investigate two proposed mechanisms for drought resilience of tropical forests, deep soil water access and the seasonality of phenology, using the LPJmL Dynamic Global Vegetation Model. We parameterize a new seasonal phenology module for tropical evergreen trees using remotely sensed leaf area index (LAI) and incoming solar radiation data from the Terra Earth Observing System. Simulations are evaluated along a gradient of dry-season length (DSL) in South America against MODIS GPP estimates. We show that deep soil water access is critical for maintaining dry-season GPP, whereas implementing a seasonal LAI did not enhance simulated dry-season GPP. The Farquhar-Collatz photosynthesis scheme used in LPJmL optimizes leaf nitrogen allocation according to light conditions, causing maximum photosynthetic capacity in the dry season. High LAI, characteristic of tropical forests, also dampens the seasonal amplitude of the fraction of photosynthetically active radiation (FPAR). Given the relatively high uncertainty in tropical phenology observations and their corresponding proximate drivers, we recommend that ecosystem model development focus on belowground processes. An improved representation of soil depths and rooting distributions is necessary for modeling the dynamics of dry-season tropical forest functioning and may have important impacts for modeling tropical forest vulnerability to climate change.
3658715|Forest growth is important both economically (yielding billions of dollars of annual revenues) and ecologically (with respect to ecosystem health and global carbon budgets). The growth of all forests follows a predictable general trend with age. In young forests, it accelerates as canopies develop; it then declines substantially soon after full canopy leaf area is reached. The classic explanation for the decline in growth invoked the increasing respiration costs required to sustain the larger masses of wood characteristic of older forests. Direct measurements of respiration have largely refuted this hypothesis, and recent work has focused on stand-level rates of resource supply, resource use, and growth. We developed and tested a hypothesis at the scale of individual trees (in relation to stand structure) to explain this declining stand-level rate of stem growth. According to our hypothesis, changes in stand structure allow dominant trees to sustain high rates of growth by increasing their acquisition of resources and using these resources efficiently (defined as stem growth per unit of resource used); smaller, nondominant trees grow more slowly as a result of their more limited acquisition of resources and a reduced rate of growth per unit of resource acquired. In combination, these two trends reduce overall stand growth. We tested this hypothesis by comparing growth, growth per unit of leaf area, and variation among trees within plots in two series of plantations of Eucalyptus in Brazil and by estimating individual-tree rates of growth and use of light, water, and nutrients in a plantation of Eucalyptus saligna in Hawaii. Our results supported the individual-tree hypothesis. We conclude that part of the universal age-related decline in forest growth derives from competition-related changes in stand structure and the resource-use efficiencies of individual trees.
3658890|Black spruce (Picea mariana [Mill.] BSP) is the most dominant forest ecosystem in the North American boreal region. There are at least two contrasting boreal black spruce forest communities: open-canopy black spruce overstory with Sphagnum ground cover (BSSP) and closed-canopy black spruce overstory with feathermoss ground cover (BSFM). The objectives of this study were (a) to compare net primary production (NPP) and light-use efficiency (LUE) for the two contrasting black spruce communities, and (b) to quantify the contribution of different vegetation strata (bryophytes, understory, overstory, and belowground) to total NPP and LUE in a mature black spruce forest stand in central Saskatchewan, Canada. Total NPP for the BSFM community
23501302|Soil organic carbon (soil C) sequestration in forests is often higher under nitrogen (N 2 )-fixing than under non-N 2 -fixing tree species. Here, we examined whether soil C could be increased using mixed-species plantations compared to monocultures, which are less productive aboveground than mixtures. In addition, we compared soil C sequestration under N 2 -fixing trees with non-N 2 -fixing trees that received N fertilizer. Monocultures of Eucalyptus globulus (E) and the N 2 -fixing Acacia mearnsii (A) and mixtures of these species were planted in a replacement series: 100%E, 75%E + 25%A, 50%E + 50%A, 25%E + 75%A and 100%A. Soil samples were also collected from fertilized monoculture treatments (100%EFer) of E. globulus (250 kg N ha -1 ). Total organic C, N and phosphorus were determined at age 8 years at two soil depths (010 cm and 1030 cm) and three density fractions of soil organic matter (SOM) were quantified for 05 cm depth. Soil C was highest in the 50%E + 50%A mixed stand and was highly correlated with aboveground biomass, not to the percentage of A. mearnsii in mixtures. This was largely due to soil C at 1030 cm because there were no treatment effects on soil C at 010 cm. All density fractions of SOM at 05 cm increased with the percentage of A. mearnsii. In E. globulus monocultures, N fertilization did not increase soil C when compared with unfertilized stands. These results indicate that the inclusion of N 2 -fixing trees into eucalypt plantations may increase soil C stocks through increased productivity.
3659057|Urban ecological systems are characterized by complex interactions between the natural environment and humans at multiple scales; for an individual urban ecosystem, the strongest interactions may occur at the local or regional spatial scale. At the regional scale, external ecosystems produce resources that are acquired and transported by humans to urban areas, where they are processed and consumed. The assimilation of diffuse human wastes and pollutants also occurs at the regional scale, with much of this process occurring external to the urban system. We developed the urban funnel model to conceptualize the integration of humans into their ecological context. The model captures this pattern and process of resource appropriation and waste generation by urban ecosystems at various spatial scales. This model is applied to individual cities using a modification of traditional ecological footprint (EF) analysis that is spatially explicit; the incorporation of spatial heterogeneity in calculating the EF greatly improves its accuracy. The method for EF analysis can be further modified to ensure that a certain proportion of potential ecosystem services are left for in situ processes. Combining EF models of human appropriation with ecosystem process models would help us to learn more about the effects of ecosystem service appropriation. By comparing the results for food and water, we were able to identify some of the potentially limiting ecological factors for cities. A comparison of the EFs for the 20 largest US cities showed the importance of urban location and interurban competition for ecosystem services. This study underscores the need to take multiple scales and spatial heterogeneity into consideration to expand our current understanding of human-ecosystem interactions. The urban funnel model and the spatially heterogeneous EF provide an effective means of achieving this goal.
25622875|The effects of experimental nitrogen (N) additions (0, 12.5, and 50 kg N ha Y) on long-term (12 years) understorey vegetation dynamics were examined in a boreal forest. The results showed that two types of natural enemies of the dominant dwarf-shrub Vaccinium myrtillus (pathogenic fungs of the species Valdensia heterodoxa and herbivorous larvae of the genus Operophtera) influenced the vegetation dynamics. The pathogenic fungus, causing premature leaf-shed of V. myrtillus, showed a strong positive N response during the initial 5-year period. For the larvae, a relatively modest N response was overshadowed by an almost 40-fold population increase during an outbreak event that followed the initial 5-year period. This outbreak occurred irrespective of N addition, resulting in V. myrtillus decline and depriving the pathogenic fungus of its substrate. Hence our study demonstrates that vegetation dynamics in this relatively species poor and seemingly simple ecosystem are driven by complex biotic interactions. Further, we show that an important component of these interactions is the temporal alternation of the two natural enemies and, resultant regulation of the dominant plant's abundance. Finally, we emphasize that long-term data are essential to capture the complexity of this type of biotic interactions. In our case, a short-term study may have resulted in markedly different conclusions regarding effects of N enrichment and the role of biotic interactions for forest vegetation dynamics.
3658682|The objectives of this study were to understand the ecological processes and possible management strategies in desertified shrublands. We hypothesized that biological production and diversity in desertified shrublands in the Negev in Israel are low due to water, soil, and nutrient leakage from the ecosystem. We designed a series of field experiments in order to examine (a) whether source-sink relationships exist between the crusted soil and the shrub patches, (b) whether resources (water, soil, and nutrients) leak from the system, and (c) whether management, which changes the landscape mosaic by introducing new sink patches that reduce leakage of resources, may increase productivity and diversity. The results indicate that the low number of shrub patches, which serve as sinks for resources, leads to water, soil, and nutrient leakage from the ecosystem. This leakage reduces ecosystem production and diversity. We found that artificially created pits, which act as sinks for resources, decrease leakage and increase biomass production and annual plant species diversity. Based on the experimental results, we developed conceptual models for shrubland desertification and ecosystem management. The models are based on a source-sink relationship between two patch types characteristic of shrublands. The models relate landscape productivity to the number of sink patches and suggest that, in cases where there are too few sinks, artificially created sink patches should be added. Management methods were developed to reduce resource leakage in the desertified shrubland of the Negev. Methods included construction of man-made pits in the landscape that add resource-enriched patches to the landscape. These patches are used to create parks consisting of clusters of trees integrated into a matrix of shrubs and herbaceous vegetation. The managed parks are used for recreational purposes and for rangeland.
41505905|Carbon (C) inputs and nutrient availability are known to affect soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks. However, general rules regarding the operation of these factors across a range of soil nutrient availabilities and substrate qualities are unidentified. "Priming" (stimulated decomposition by labile C inputs) and 'preferential substrate utilization' (retarded decomposition due to shifts in community composition towards microbes that do not mineralize SOC) are two hypotheses to explain effects of labile C additions on SOC dynamics. For effects of nutrient additions (nitrogen and phosphorus) on SOC dynamics, the stoichiometric (faster decomposition of materials of low carbon-to-nutrient ratios) and 'microbial mining' (that is, reduced breakdown of recalcitrant C forms for nutrients under fertile conditions) hypotheses have been proposed. Using the natural gradient of soil nutrient availability and substrate quality of a chronosequence, combined with labile C and nutrient amendments, we explored the support for these contrasting hypotheses. Additions of labile C, nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and combinations of C and N and C and P were applied to three sites: 2-year fallow grassland, mature grassland and forest, and the effects of site and nutrient additions on litter decomposition and soil C dynamics were assessed. The response to C addition supported the preferential substrate hypothesis for easily degradable litter C and the priming hypothesis for SOC, but only in nitrogen-enriched soils of the forest site. Responses to N addition supported the microbial mining hypothesis irrespective of C substrate (litter or SOC), but only in the forest site. Further, P addition effects on SOC support the stoichiometric hypothesis; P availability appeared key to soil C release (priming) in the forest site if labile C and N is available. These results clearly link previously contrasting hypotheses of the factors controlling SOC with the natural gradient in litter quality and nutrient availability that exists in ecosystems at different successional stages. A holistic theory that incorporates this variability of responses, due to different mechanisms, depending on nutrient availability and substrate quality is essential for devising management strategies to safeguard soil C stocks.
27823666|Primary productivity on old, weathered soils often is assumed to be limited by phosphorus (P), especially in the lowland tropics where climatic conditions promote the rapid depletion of rock-derived nutrients. This assumption is based on a static view of soils weathering in place with no renewal of the bedrock source. In reality, advection of material through the soil column introduces a spatially variable supply of rock-derived nutrients. This flux is dependent on the residence time of soil, which can range from a few hundred years in rapidly uplifting collisional mountain belts to tens of millions of years in tectonically quiescent tropical cratons. We modeled the effects of tectonic uplift, erosion, and soil depth on the advection of P through the soil column and P availability, calibrating rate of change in biologically available P over time with data from two basaltic chronosequences in Hawai'i and a series of greywacke terraces in New Zealand. Combining our model with the global distribution of tectonic uplift rates and soil depths, we identified tectonic settings that are likely to support P-depleted ecosystemsassuming that tectonic uplift and erosion are balanced (that is, landscape development has reached steady state). The model captures the occurrence of transient P limitation in rapidly uplifting young ecosystems where mineral weathering is outpaced by physical erosiona likely occurrence where biological N fixation is important. However, we calculate that P depletion is unlikely in areas of moderate uplift, such as most of Central America and Southeast Asia, due to the continuous advection of P into the rooting zone. Finally, where soil advection is slow, such as the Amazon Basin, we expect widespread P depletion in the absence of exogenous nutrient inputs.
25470381|Disturbed grassland soils are often cited as having the potential to store large amounts of carbon (C). Fertilization of grasslands can promote soil C storage, but little is known about the generation of recalcitrant pools of soil organic matter (SOM) with management treatments, which is critical for long-term soil C storage. We used a combination of soil incubations, size fractionation and acid hydrolysis of SOM, [C], [N], and stable isotopic analyses, and biomass quality indices to examine how fertilization and haying can impact SOM dynamics in Kansan grassland soils. Fertilized soils possessed 113% of the C possessed by soils subjected to other treatments, an increase predominantly harbored in the largest size fraction (212-2,000 m). This fraction is frequently associated with more labile material. Haying and fertilization/haying, treatments that more accurately mimic true management techniques, did not induce any increase in soil C. The difference in N-enrichment between size fractions was consistent with a decoupling of SOM processing between pools with fertilization, congruent with gains of SOM in the largest size fraction promoted by fertilization not moving readily into smaller fractions that frequently harbor more recalcitrant material. Litterfall and root biomass C inputs increased 104% with fertilization over control plots, and this material possessed lower C:N ratios. Models of incubation mineralization kinetics indicate that fertilized soils have larger pools of labile organic C. Model estimates of turnover rates of the labile and recalcitrant C pools did not differ between treatments (65.5  7.2 and 2.9  0.3 g C d, respectively). Although fertilization may promote greater organic inputs into these soils, much of that material is transformed into relatively labile forms of soil C; these data highlight the challenges of managing grasslands for long-term soil C sequestration.
25622869|A positive feedback between submerged vegetation and water clarity forms the backbone of the alternative state theory in shallow lakes. The water clearing effect of aquatic vegetation may be caused by different physical, chemical, and biological mechanisms and has been studied mainly in temperate lakes. Recent work suggests differences in biotic interactions between (sub)tropical and cooler lakes might result in a less pronounced clearing effect in the (sub)tropics. To assess whether the effect of submerged vegetation changes with climate, we sampled 83 lakes over a gradient ranging from the tundra to the tropics in South America. Judged from a comparison of water clarity inside and outside vegetation beds, the vegetation appeared to have a similar positive effect on the water clarity across all climatic regions studied. However, the local clearing effect of vegetation decreased steeply with the contribution of humic substances to the underwater light attenuation. Looking at turbidity on a whole-lake scale, results were more difficult to interpret. Although lakes with abundant vegetation (>30%) were generally clear, sparsely vegetated lakes differed widely in clarity. Overall, the effect of vegetation on water clarity in our lakes appears to be smaller than that found in various Northern hemisphere studies. This might be explained by differences in fish communities and their relation to vegetation. For instance, unlike in Northern hemisphere studies, we find no clear relation between vegetation coverage and fish abundance or their diet preference. High densities of omnivorous fish and coinciding low grazing pressures on phytoplankton in the (sub)tropics may, furthermore, weaken the effect of vegetation on water clarity.
3658687|We studied the aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) of wheat crops in the Argentine Pampas. Our specific objectives were to determine (a) the response of ANPP to changes in water availability (b) the regional patterns of ANPP and (c) the interannual variability and environmental controls of ANPP. We used ground and satellite data to address these questions. Wheat ANPP was calculated as the ratio between grain yield and harvest index. We developed a simple model that took into account environmental and genetic improvement effects upon harvest index. We used the normalized difference vegetational index (NDVI) as a surrogate for ANPP at the county level. Straight-line regression models were fitted to single-year and average values of ANPP and precipitation to derive temporal and spatial models for wheat. For grasslands, we used spatial and temporal models already published. At any given site, there was no difference between modeled wheat and grassland average ANPP. The response of ANPP to changes in interannual water availability decreased along the precipitation gradient when vegetation structure (for example, species composition, density, and total cover) was held constant (wheat crops). Wheat ANPP and total production variability, estimated from remotely sensed data, decreased as mean annual precipitation (MAP) increased. The percentage of soils without drainage problems was the variable that explained most of the wheat ANPP spatial variability as shown by stepwise linear regression. Precipitation variability accounted for 49% of wheat ANPP variability. Remotely sensed estimates of ANPP variability showed lower and wheat ANPP higher temporal variability than annual precipitation.
40793011|Ecological functions of bioturbation in ecosystems have received increasing attention over the recent decades, and crab burrowing has been considered as one of the major bioturbations affecting the physical and chemical processes in salt marshes. This study assessed the integrated effects of crab excavating and burrow mimic trapping on sediment turnover and vertical and N distributions in a Chinese salt marsh in the Yangtze River estuary. Crab burrowing increased soil water content and the turnover of carbon and nitrogen and decreased bulk soil density. Vertical movement of materials, nutrient cycling and reuse driven by crab burrowing might be obstructed by vegetation (Phragmites australis and Spartina alterniflora communities). The amount of soil excavated by crab burrowing was higher than that deposited into burrow mimics. In Phragmites marshes, Spartina marshes and unvegetated mudflats, net transport of soil to the marsh surface was 171.73, 109.54, and 374.95 g m d , respectively; and the corresponding estimated soil turnover time was 2.89, 4.07 and 1.83 years, respectively. Crab burrowing in salt marshes can mix surface and deeper soil over a period of years, accelerating litter decomposition and promoting the efficient reuse of nutrients by plants. Therefore, bioturbation affects soil physical processes and functioning of ecosystems, and needs to be addressed in ecosystem management.
23501298|Climate change is expected to affect forest landscape dynamics in many ways, but it is possible that the most important direct impact of climate change will be drought stress. We combined data from weather stations and forest inventory plots (FIA) across the upper Great Lakes region (USA) to study the relationship between measures of drought stress and mortality for four drought sensitivity species groups using a weight-of-evidence approach. For all groups, the model that predicted mortality as a function of mean drought length had the greatest plausibility. Model tests confirmed that the models for all groups except the most drought tolerant had predictive value. We assumed that no relationship exists between drought and mortality for the drought-tolerant group. We used these empirical models to develop a drought extension for the forest landscape disturbance and succession model LANDIS-II, and applied the model in Oconto county, Wisconsin (USA) to assess the influence of drought on forest dynamics relative to other factors such as stand-replacing disturbance and site characteristics. The simulations showed that drought stress does affect species composition and total biomass, but effects on age classes, spatial pattern, and productivity were insignificant. We conclude that (for the upper Midwest) (1) a drought-induced tree mortality signal can be detected using FIA data, (2) tree species respond primarily to the length of drought events rather than their severity, (3) the differences in drought tolerance of tree species can be quantified, (4) future increases in drought can potentially change forest composition, and (5) drought is a potentially important factor to include in forest dynamics simulations because it affects forest composition and carbon storage.
41505913|We report on soil leaching of dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) along transects across exposed edges of four coniferous and four deciduous forest stands. In a 64-m edge zone, DIN leaching below the main rooting zone was enhanced relative to the interior (at 128 m from the edge) by 21 and 14 kg N ha y in the coniferous and deciduous forest stands, respectively. However, the patterns of DIN leaching did not univocally reflect those of DIN throughfall deposition. DIN leaching in the first 20 m of the edges was lower than at 32-64 m from the edge (17 vs. 36 kg N ha y and 15 vs. 24 kg N ha y in the coniferous and deciduous forests, respectively). Nitrogen stocks in the mineral topsoil (0-30 cm) were, on average, 943 kg N ha higher at the outer edges than in the interior, indicating that N retention in the soil is probably one of the processes involved in the relatively low DIN leaching in the outer edges. We suggest that a complex of edge effects on biogeochemical processes occurs at the forest edges as a result of the interaction between microclimate, tree dynamics (growth and litterfall), and atmospheric deposition of N and base cations.
40296317|Plants across diverse biomes tend to produce smaller leaves and a reduced total leaf area when exposed to drought. For mature trees of a single species, however, the leaf areawater supply relationship is not well understood. We tested the paradigm of leaf area reduction upon drought by a transect study with 14 mature Fagus sylvatica forests along a steep precipitation gradient (970-520 mm y) by applying two independent methods of leaf size determination. Contrary to expectation, average leaf size in dry stands (520550 mm y) was about 40% larger and SLA was higher than in moist stands (910-970 mm y). As a result of increased leaf sizes, leaf area index significantly increased from the high-to the low-precipitation stands. Multiple regression analyses suggested that average leaf size was primarily controlled by temperature, whereas the influence of soil moisture and soil C/N ratio was low. Summer rainfall of the preceding year was the most significant predictor of total leaf number. We assume that leaf expansion of beech was independent of water supply, because it takes place in May with ample soil water reserves along the entire transect. In contrast, bud formation, which determines total leaf number, occurs in mid-summer, when droughts are severest. We conclude that leaf expansion and stand leaf area oi beech along this precipitation gradient are not a simple function of water availability, but are controlled by several abiotic factors including spring temperature and possibly also nitrogen supply, which both tend to increase toward drier sites, thus overlaying any negative effect of water shortage on leaf development.
3658792|Here we report measurements of organic and inorganic nitrogen (N) fluxes from the high-elevation Green Lakes Valley catchment in the Colorado Front Range for two snowmelt seasons (1998 and 1999). Surface water and soil samples were collected along an elevational gradient extending from the lightly vegetated alpine to the forested subalpine to assess how changes in land cover and basin area affect yields and concentrations of ammonium-N ( NH
3658784|The movement of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) through soils is an important process for the transport of carbon within ecosystems and the formation of soil organic matter. In some cases, DOC fluxes may also contribute to the carbon balance of terrestrial ecosystems; in most ecosystems, they are an important source of energy, carbon, and nutrient transfers from terrestrial to aquatic ecosystems. Despite their importance for terrestrial and aquatic biogeochemistry, these fluxes are rarely represented in conceptual or numerical models of terrestrial biogeochemistry. In part, this is due to the lack of a comprehensive understanding of the suite of processes that control DOC dynamics in soils. In this article, we synthesize information on the geochemical and biological factors that control DOC fluxes through soils. We focus on conceptual issues and quantitative evaluations of key process rates to present a general numerical model of DOC dynamics. We then test the sensitivity of the model to variation in the controlling parameters to highlight both the significance of DOC fluxes to terrestrial carbon processes and the key uncertainties that require additional experiments and data. Simulation model results indicate the importance of representing both root carbon inputs and soluble carbon fluxes to predict the quantity and distribution of soil carbon in soil layers. For a test case in a temperate forest, DOC contributed 25% of the total soil profile carbon, whereas roots provided the remainder. The analysis also shows that physical factors-most notably, sorption dynamics and hydrology-play the dominant role in regulating DOC losses from terrestrial ecosystems but that interactions between hydrology and microbial-DOC relationships are important in regulating the fluxes of DOC in the litter and surface soil horizons. The model also indicates that DOC fluxes to deeper soil layers can support a large fraction (up to 30%) of microbial activity below 40 cm.
40603622|Peatland-margin habitats with organic matter accumulation of 40-150 cm make up a significant but poorly quantified portion of Canada's boreal forest region. Spanning the transition between non-wetland forest and fen proper, these ecosystems represent a zone of complex environmental and vegetation change, yet little is known about their ecological function or development. We here use vegetation and macrofossil analysis, traditional C, bomb-spike C, and Pb dating to investigate the development, organic matter accumulation, and recent vegetation history of peat margin communities at two sites in central Saskatchewan, Canada. Although similar in general shape, bomb-spike C and Pb chronologies show limited agreement in three of the four profiles examined, with Pb generally producing younger ages than C. Peat initiation and long-term organic matter accumulation at the Old Black Spruce (OBS) transect were probably by the dynamics of Sphagnum, whereas at the Sandhill Fen (SF) transect, they were controlled by water level fluctuations in the neighboring fen. Bryophyte macrofossils suggest a recent drying of the vegetation surface at both sites, most likely triggered by regional drought in the late 1950s and 1960s. At OBS, the shift from Sphagnum-to feather moss-dominated communities continued in the 1990s, possibly reflecting effects of direct disturbance on local drainage patterns. Overall, our results suggest that community composition and C dynamics of peat-margin swamps respond dynamically to climatic and hydrologie fluctuations. However, uncertainties regarding the reliability of different chronologies limit our ability to link observed community changes to specific causal events.
25053879|Riparian zones associated with alluvial rivers are spatially dynamic, forming distinct vegetative mosaics that exhibit sharp contrasts in structure and processes related to the underlying biophysical template. The productivity of riparian plants, especially trees, influences streamside community characteristics as well as the forms and fluxes of organic matter to adjacent streams - thereby strongly impacting patterns of channel morphology, water flow, sedimentation, and habitat in rivers. As part of a comprehensive investigation of riparian dynamics in coastal rain forest rivers of the Pacific Northwest (USA), we examined riparian tree abundance (density, basal area, and biomass) and rates of production (basal area growth [BAI] and bole wood biomass increase [P]) of seven common species - red alder (Alnus rubra), Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis), bigleaf maple (Acer macrophyllum), western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla), black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa), vine maple (Acer circinatum) and willow (Salix spp.) - in the lowland floodplain of the Queets River (Olympic National Park), Washington. Measurements were made annually for three years (1999 - 2001) in 16 permanent plots on three biophysical templates that formed a toposequence - active floodplain, young terrace and mature terrace. Stem density was highest in the active floodplain (27,000 stems/ ha), decreasing in the young terrace (2,700 stems /ha) and the mature terrace (500 stems/ha). Basal area and total stem biomass were lowest in the active floodplain (16
43677501|The natural abundance of nitrogen (N) stable isotopes (N) has the potential to enhance our understanding of the ecosystem N cycle at large spatial scales. However, vegetation and soil N patterns along climatic and edaphic gradients have not yet been fully understood, particularly for highaltitude ecosystems. Here we determined vegetation and soil N in alpine grasslands on the Tibetan Plateau by conducting four consecutive regional surveys during 2001-2004, and then examined their relationships with both climatic and edaphic variables. Our results showed that both vegetation and soil N in Tibetan alpine grasslands were more N-enriched than global averages. Vegetation N did not exhibit any significant trend along the temperature gradient, but decreased significantly with an increase in precipitation amount. In contrast, soil N did not vary with either mean annual temperature or precipitation. Our results also indicated that soil (N exhibited a slight increase with day content, but decreased with soil carboninitrogen ratio. A general linear model analysis revealed that variations in vegetation N were dominantly determined by climatic variables, whereas soil N was related to edaphic variables. These results provide clues for potential climatic and edaphic regulations on ecosystem N cycle in these high-altitude regions.
23501502|In aquatic systems, light and subsidy input often co-vary along a canopy cover gradient. This creates systems where subsidies are more prevalent in areas with low primary productivity and less prevalent in areas with high primary productivity. We expect ecosystem processes and community structure to respond to these changes in resources. We examined the effects of light and subsidy input (leaf litter) on ponds by placing pond mesocosms along a canopy gradient and manipulating litter input. We then sampled mesocosms for ecosystem and community parameters for 2 years during April (pre-leaf out), July (full canopy), and November (start of leaf fall). Neither canopy cover nor litter input tended to dominate effects overall, highlighting the importance of the light-subsidy gradient combination that is frequently encountered in temperate aquatic systems. Ponds shifted from an autotrophy/heterotrophy balance to net heterotrophy with increasing canopy cover in concordance with our predictions. Although litter input affected dissolved oxygen, we did not detect an effect of litter on trophic state, primary production, or community respiration. We additionally found effects of both canopy cover and litter input on community composition, but very differently than that found in streams. In general, the grazer and shredder macroinvertebrate functional feeding groups were rare in the pond mesocosms, and thus did not respond to treatments. The collector proportion of the community, mainly chironomids, increased with canopy cover and was higher in mesocosms with litter input than those without. Contrary to predictions, there were few differences between subsidy input type (leaves or grass) despite differences in litter quality. This study, along with many others, highlights the importance of canopy gradients in determining ecosystem function and community composition.
27823730|The ecosystems of coastal and enclosed seas are under increasing anthropogenic pressure worldwide, with Chesapeake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico and the Black and Baltic Seas as well known examples. We use an ecosystem model (Ecopath with Ecosim, EwE) to show that reduced top-down control (seal predation) and increased bottom-up forcing (eutrophication) can largely explain the historical dynamics of the main fish stocks (cod, herring and sprat) in the Baltic Sea between 1900 and 1980. Based on these results and the historical fish stock development we identify two major ecological transitions. A shift from seal to cod domination was caused by a virtual elimination of marine mammals followed by a shift from an oligotrophic to a eutrophic state. A third shift from cod to clupeid domination in the late 1980s has previously been explained by overfishing of cod and climatic changes. We propose that the shift from an oligotrophic to a eutrophic state represents a true regime shift with a stabilizing mechanism for a hysteresis phenomenon. There are also mechanisms that could stabilize the shift from a cod to clupeid dominated ecosystem, but there are no indications that the ecosystem has been pushed that far yet. We argue that the shifts in the Baltic Sea are a consequence of human impacts, although variations in climate may have influenced their timing, magnitude and persistence.
43677496|Palsa peatlands, permafrost-affected peatlands characteristic of the outer margin of the discontinuous permafrost zone, form unique ecosystems in northern-boreal and arctic regions, but are now degrading throughout their distributional range due to climate warming. Permafrost thaw and the degradation of palsa mounds are likely to affect the biogeochemical stability of soil organic matter (that is, SOM resistance to microbial decomposition), which may change the net C source/sink character of paisa peatland ecosystems. In this study, we have assessed both biological and chemical proxies for SOM stability, and we have investigated SOM bulk chemistry with mid-infrared spectroscopy, in surface peat of three distinct peatland features in a paisa peatland in northern Norway. Our results show that the stability of SOM in surface peat as determined by both biological and chemical proxies is consistently higher in the permafrost-associated paisa mounds than in the surrounding internal lawns and bog hummocks. Our results also suggest that differences in SOM bulk chemistry is a main factor explaining the present SOM stability in surface peat of palsa peatlands, with selective preservation of recalcitrant and highly oxidized SOM components in the active layer of palsa mounds during intense aerobic decomposition over time, whereas SOM in the wetter areas of the peatland remains stabilized mainly by anaerobic conditions. The continued degradation of paisa mounds and the expansion of wetter peat areas are likely to modify the bulk SOM chemistry of paisa peatlands, but the effect on the future net C source/sink character of paisa peatlands will largely depend on moisture conditions and oxygen availability in peat.
27823769|A series of recent high-profile papers in Science and Nature have led readers to believe that most fisheries worldwide are overexploited and that current fisheries management practices have universally failed. In reality, current fisheries management is working well to achieve the legislated objective of MSY in some countries but is failing in others. Here, I present three interpretations about the status of fisheries management that are widely accepted and for each consider an alternative interpretation of the data. I propose that, rather than abandoning current approaches to fisheries management, we should expand the use of the management tools used in fisheries that currently achieve biological and economic sustainability.
25053812|Scenarios can help planners and decision makers to think through uncertainties about the future and make decisions that are robust to a variety of possible outcomes. To develop useful scenarios we need to understand the main processes of relevance to the system of interest. Ecological processes, and the feedbacks that they can create between human actions and human well-being, are thought to be important for human societies. Current uncertainties over the long-term resilience of ecosystems and the substitutability of ecosystem goods and services can be translated into three alternative realities: ecosystems may be relatively brittle, relatively resilient, or largely irrelevant. Although these extremes are only rough characterizations of reality, they help us to focus our thinking about the possible outcomes of interactions between humans and the rest of the biosphere. Existing global scenarios can be categorized into a small number of families based on shared themes and assumptions about the future. Considering the internal consistency of four of the main scenario families in relation to the three alternative ecological realities suggests that all existing scenarios make strong, implicit assumptions about the resilience of ecosystems. After a detailed discussion of individual examples, we present a synthesis of the incorporation of ecology in existing scenarios. All current scenarios are inconsistent with at least one possible property of ecosystems and their likely interaction with society. The interrelationships between ecological reality, human views of ecosystems, and social responses to actual and perceived ecological change are complex. For the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment and future scenario exercises, we recommend that essential ecological assumptions should be made explicit to ensure that the details of each scenario are consistent with both the perceived and the actual degree of resilience of ecosystems.
41505920|Pelagic, littoral, and terrestrial resources can all play a role in supporting consumers in lakes. The role of benthic algal-derived food web pathways in lakes is perhaps the least understood because limnologists have historically focused on pelagic (open-water) production and processes. We compiled carbon stable isotope data from 546 fish populations (75 lakes), and used a two end-member mixing model to calculate littoral-benthic reliance for each fish species in each lake. Fish littoral-benthic reliance values were averaged by lake to assess overall fish species benthic reliance for each lake. Lake-specific mean littoral reliance (BR L ; fish species not weighted according to production or biomass) averaged 57% and was independent of lake morphological and limnological attributes. For these same lakes, water column nutrients, light, and morphometry data were used to estimate whole-lake benthic algal and phytoplankton primary production. On average, benthic algae comprised 36% of whole-lake primary production (BP f = 0.36). BP f and BR L were weakly correlated: BR L tends to be high even in large/deep lakes in which benthic algae is a minor contributor to whole-lake primary production. The high littoralbenthic contribution to individual fish species appears to reflect the high concentration of fish species diversity in the littoral zone. Our work cannot be extrapolated to whole-lake fish production. However, the result is consistent with other work indicating that most fish species inhabit the littoral zone, whereas relatively few exclusively inhabit the pelagic. Our results suggest that it takes less primary production to support a single fish species in the littoral zone than is required to support a species in the pelagic.
23328062|Management efforts to promote forest resiliency as climate changes have often used historical forest structure and composition to provide general guidance for fuels reduction and forest restoration treatments. However, it has been difficult to identify what stand conditions might be fire and drought resilient because historical data and reconstruction studies are generally limited to accurate estimates only of large, live tree density and composition. Other stand features such as smaller tree densities, dead wood, understory structure, regeneration, and fuel loads have been difficult to quantify, estimate how they may vary across a landscape, or assess how they would be affected by fire under current climate conditions. We sampled old-growth, mixed-conifer forests with at least two low-intensity fires within the last 65 years in 150 plots at 48 sample sites ranging over 400 km of the Sierra Nevada. Recent fire history had the strongest influence on understory conditions with small tree density decreasing and shrub cover increasing with the increased intensity and frequency of fire associated with upper-slope and ridge-top locations. In contrast, stand structures associated with large, overstory trees such as total basal area, canopy cover, and the abundance of large snags and logs increased in topographic locations associated with more mesic, productive sites regardless of fire history. In forests with restored fire regimes, topography, fire and their interaction influence productivity and burn intensity, creating the structural heterogeneity characteristic of frequent-fire forests.
40296278|In this 'perspectives' article, we share experiences gained from the century-old Kruger National Park (KNP) in South Africa to illustrate the dynamic complexity of biophysical and socio-political systems, the interactions that occur between them, and the consequences for ecosystem-scale functions and resources and for their management. As in KNP, the social-ecological milieu surrounding many national parks and protected areas is changing rapidly. There will be significant managerial adjustments as human populations grow and the needs for resources accelerate. The changes, driven largely by global-scale environmental shifts as well as by new knowledge, are intimately intertwined with evolving societal perceptions, values, and expectations. Many KNP resource-related issues of the past century originated more internally and were largely environmental, whereas the emerging issues are more external and largely social. Here, we illustrate how interrelated scientific and managerial advances in integrating biophysical and social systems are acting to conserve and rehabilitate resources within KNP, and to aid in their conservation. Where appropriate, we relate these advances to similar examples in the region or other protected areas in the world. Strategies to address emerging issues are identified and discussedand their combined effects on resource conservation and management are evaluated. In our experience the approach to conservation within KNP has been successful, despite well-intended but damaging management actions in the past. We believe that the perceived success stems from a willingness to continually incorporate new knowledge into management, to foster close working and personal associations among scientists, managers, and rangers, to acquire an intimate knowledge and understanding of the social-ecological system by the administrators as well as by the staff, and to be actively 'forward' thinking in an increasingly complex and uncertain world. We accept that many decisions taken today will be challenged by future managers and scientists, and we expect that some will be found wanting as emerging knowledge and continued learning shape future decisions. Further, evolving political, social, and environmental contexts may mean that protected areas will need to be managed in different ways. Therefore, we emphasize the importance of minimizing the permanency and impact of decisions so that today's actions do not compromise future decisions when meaningful changes need to be made.
3658861|Studies in temperate grassland ecosystems have shown that differences in composition of C
3658930|Bighorn Lake, a fishless alpine lake, was stocked with nonnative brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalis, in 1965 and 1966. The newly introduced trout rapidly eliminated the large crustaceans Hesperodiaptomus arcticus and Daphnia middendorffiana from the plankton. In July 1997, we began to remove the fish using gill nets. The population comprised 261 fish that averaged 214 g in wet weight and 273 mm in fork length. Thereafter, zooplankton abundance increased within weeks. Early increases were caused by the maturation of Diacyclops bicuspidatus, few of which reached copepodid stages before the removal of the fish because of fish predation. Daphnia middendorffiana, absent when fish were present, reappeared in 1998. Hesperodiaptomus arcticus, which had been eliminated by the stocked fish, did not return. The proportion of large zooplankton increased after fish removal, but their overall biomass did not change. Algal biomass was low and variable throughout the 1990s and correlated with water temperature but not with nutrient concentrations or grazer densities. Diatoms were the most abundant algal taxon in the lake, followed by Dinophyceae. Chrysophyceans and cryptophyceans were eliminated after the fish were removed. Chlorophyll a concentrations were unaffected. Gill netting is a viable fish eradication technique for smaller (less than 10 ha), shallow (less than 10 m deep) lakes that lack habitable inflows and outflows or other sensitive species. Further work is required to define appropriate removal methods for larger lakes and watersheds.
27823709|Wastelands are likely to host a significant part of urban floristic diversity but have received limited attention because they are not considered interesting green zones. Here, we explore the potential role of wastelands in maintaining urban biodiversity to help define effective urban management plans. We quantified floristic diversity in 98 wasteland sites of Hauts-de-Seine, one of the most densely populated areas in France, and characterized the environmental parameters and spatial distribution of sites to identify some of the factors that influence plant species composition and to explore the impact of urban environment on the floristic interest of wastelands. Their floristic richness represented 58% of the total richness observed in the whole study area. Site richness depended on site area (the largest sites were the richest) and site age, with a maximum in sites of intermediate age (413 years). In the largest sites only (>2,500 m2), the floristic distance among sites was positively correlated with geographic distance, which suggests that migration of species among large sites partly controls local floristic composition. In contrast, the environmental distance among sites was not correlated with floristic distance. Finally, we showed that the presence of collective and individual dwellings within 200 m of a wasteland decreased its floristic rarity, whereas the presence of rivers or ponds increased it. We derive several recommendations to optimize the management of wastelands with respect to conservation of urban biodiversity.
40296421|Research that connects ecosystem processes to genetic mechanisms has recently gained significant ground, yet actual studies that span the levels of organization from genes to ecosystems are extraordinarily rare. Utilizing foundation species from the genus Populus, in which the role of condensed tannins (CT) has been investigated aboveground, belowground, and in adjacent streams, we examine the diverse mechanisms for the expression of CT and the ecological consequences of CT for forests and streams. The wealth of data from this genus highlights the importance of form and function of CT in large-scale and long-term ecosystem processes and demonstrates the following four patterns: (1) plant- specific concentration of CT varies as much as fourfold among species and individual genotypes; (2) large within-plant variation in CT occurs due to ontogenetic stages (that is, juvenile and mature), tissue types (that is, leaves versus twigs) and phenotypic plasticity in response to the environment; (3) CT have little consistent effect on plant-herbivore interactions, excepting organisms utilizing woody tissues (that is, fungal endophytes and beaver), however; (4) CT in plants consistently slow rates of leaf litter decomposition (aquatic and terrestrial), alter the composition of heterotrophic soil communities (and some aquatic communities) and reduce nutrient availability in terrestrial ecosystems. Taken together, these data suggest that CT may play an underappreciated adaptive role in regulating nutrient dynamics in ecosystems. These results also demonstrate that a holistic perspective from genesto-ecosystems is a powerful approach for elucidating complex ecological interctions and their evolutionary implications
27823738|The importance of the spatial pattern of vegetation for hydrological behavior in semiarid environments is widely acknowledged. However, there is little empirical work testing the hypothetical covariation between vegetation spatial structure and hillslope water and sediment fluxes. We evaluated the relationships between vegetation structural attributes (spatial pattern, functional diversity), soil surface properties (crust, stone, plant, and ground cover, and particle size distribution) and hillslope hydrologic functioning in a semiarid Mediterranean landscape; in particular, we tested whether decreasing patch density or coarsening plant spatial pattern would increase runoff and sediment yield at the hillslope scale. Runoff and sediment yield were measured over a 45-month period on nine 8  2-m plots that varied in vegetation type and spatial pattern. We grouped vegetation into functional types and derived plant spatial pattern attributes from field plot maps processed through a GIS system. We found that there was an inverse relationship between patch density and runoff, and that both runoff and sediment yields increased as the spatial pattern of vegetation coarsened. Vegetation pattern attributes and plant functional diversity were better related to runoff and sediment yield than soil surface properties. However, a significant relationship was found between physical crust cover and plant spatial pattern. Our results present empirical evidence for the direct relationship between the hydrologic functioning of semiarid lands and both the spatial pattern and the functional diversity of perennial vegetation, and suggest that plant spatial pattern, physical crust cover, and functional diversity may be linked through feedback mechanisms.
23501437|Water availability is the dominant control of global terrestrial primary productivity with concurrent effects on evapotranspiration and ecosystem respiration, especially in water-limited ecosystems. Process-oriented ecosystem models are critical tools for understanding landatmosphere exchanges and for up-scaling this information to regional and global scales. Thus, it is important to understand how ecosystem models simulate ecosystem fluxes under changing weather conditions. Here, we applied both time-series analysis and meta-analysis techniques to study how five ecosystem process-oriented models-simulated gross primary production (GPP), ecosystem respiration (Reco), and evapotranspiration (ET). Ecosystem fluxes were simulated for 3 years at a daily time step from four evergreen and three deciduous Mediterranean oak woodlands (21 site-year measurements; 105 site-year-simulations). Mediterranean ecosystems are important test-beds for studying the interannual dynamics of soil moisture on ecosystem mass and energy exchange as they experience cool, wet winters with hot, dry summers and are typically subject to drought. Results show data-model disagreements at multiple temporal scales for GPP, Reco, and ET at both plant functional types. Overall there was a systematic underestimation of the temporal variation of Reco at both plant functional types at temporal scales between weeks and months, and an overestimation at the yearly scale. Modeled Reco was systematically overestimated during drought for all sites, but daily GPP was systematically underestimated only for deciduous sites during drought. In contrast, daily estimates of ET showed good data-model agreement even during drought conditions. This meta-analysis brings attention to the importance of drought conditions for modeling purposes in representing forest dynamics in water-limited ecosystems.
41507771|Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia) is a non-native riparian tree that has become common and continues to rapidly spread throughout the western United States. Due to its dinitrogen (N)-fixing ability and proximity to streams, Russian olive has the potential to subsidize stream ecosystems with nitrogen (N), which may in turn alter nutrient processing in these systems. We tested these potential effects by comparing background N concentrations; nutrient limitation of biofilms; and uptake of ammonium (NH-N), nitrate (NO-N), and phosphate (PO-P) in paired upstream-reference and downstream-invaded reaches in streams in southeastern Idaho and central Wyoming. We found that stream reaches invaded by Russian olive had higher organic N concentrations and exhibited reduced N limitation of biofilms compared to reference reaches. However, at low inorganic N background concentrations, reaches invaded by Russian olive exhibited higher demand for both NH-N and NO-N compared to their paired reference reaches, suggesting these streams have the potential to retain the N subsidy from Russian olive N fixation and diminish its downstream export and effects. Our findings demonstrate the potential for a nonnative riparian plant to significantly alter biogeochemical cycling in streams. Finally, we used our results to develop a conceptual model that describes predicted effects of Russian olive and other nonnative riparian N fixers on in-stream N dynamics.
25470408|We compiled a time series of Earth Observing-1 Hyperion satellite observations with field measurements to compare the structural, biochemical, and physiological characteristics of an invasive nitrogen-fixing tree Myrica faya and native Metro-sideros polymorpha in montane rainforests in Hawai'i. Satellite-based canopy water measurements closely tracked variations in leaf area index, and the remotely sensed photochemical and carotenoid reflectance indices (PRI, CRI) indicated variations in upper-canopy leaf chlorophyll and carotenoid content during a climatological transition. The PRI and CRI were related to differences in light-use efficiency of each species, as indicated by field measurements of leaf electron transport rate. The suite of hyperspectral metrics indicated maximum differences in the structure, biochemistry, and physiology of Myrica and Metrosideros when canopy vapor pressure deficit was high during hotter and drier periods. These satellite data, combined with the Carnegue-Ames-Stanford Approach (CASA) carbon cycle model, suggested that Myrica growth rates were 16-44% higher than Metrosideros, with relative differences between species closely linked to climate conditions. The satellite hyperspectral data identified the basic biological mechanisms favoring the spread of an introduced tree, and provided a more detailed understanding of how vegetation-climate interactions affect the time course of plant growth with respect to the invasion process.
43677540|Sustainable nutrient cycling in agroecosystems combining grazing and crops has global ramifications for protecting these ecosystems and for the livelihoods they support. We sought to understand environmental, management, and social drivers of nutrient management and sustainability in Andean grazing/crop systems. We assessed the impact of farmer wealth, fields' proximity to villages, topography, and rangeland net primary productivity (NPP) on mass balances for nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) of 43 fields. Wealthier farmers applied greater total amounts (kg) of manure nutrients. However, higher manure application rates (kg ha) were associated with field proximity and NPP rather than wealth. Manure P inputs in far fields (> 500-m distant) were half those in near fields. Harvest exports increased with manure inputs (P < 0.001) so that balances varied less than either of these flows. Erosion nutrient losses in steeper far fields matched crop exports, and yields declined with increasing field slope (P < 0.001), suggesting that erosion reduces productivity. Balances for P were slightly positive in near and far fields (+ 2.2 kg P ha y, combined mean) when calculated without erosion, but zero in near fields and negative in far fields with erosion included (-6.1 kg P ha y in far fields). Near/far differences in both inputs and erosion thus drove P limitation. Crop K exports dominated K balances, which were negative even without accounting for erosion. Modeled intensification scenarios showed that remediating far field deficits would require P addition and erosion reduction. Management nested within environmental constraints (NPP, erosion) rather than socioeconomic status drives soil nutrient sustainability in these agroecosystems. Time-lags between management and long-term degradation are a principal sustainability challenge to farming in these montane grazing/crop agroecosystems.
43677533|We investigated long-term responses (since 1850) of Fagus sylvatica (Luxembourg; central Europe) to shifts in temperature, precipitation, and nitrogen deposition by analyzing diameter at breast height (DBH) increment, basal area increment (BAI), and tree-ring stable isotopes (C, N). We compared stands on soils with contrasting water supply (Regosols and Cambisols with an available water capacity of ca. 40 and 170 mm, respectively) and of two different age classes (ca. 60 vs. 200 years). All stands showed a peak in DBH increment in the decade 1978-1987, but a decline in increment growth in subsequent decades. In addition, BAI declined in mature stands in the last two decades. Decreasing increment rates were attributable to an increasing drought limitation of stands, mainly induced by increasing temperatures in the last two decades. Contrary to our expectations, stands on Cambisols showed a similar susceptibility to shifts in temperature and precipitation as stands on Regosols, suggesting a strong adaptation of the respective ecotypes grown at dryer sites. This result was in line with long-term trends for tree-ring C signatures, which did not differ significantly between stands on Cambisols and Regosols. Climate impacts on tree-ring N signatures were low. High spring precipitation and temperatures caused increasing and decreasing N values, respectively, but only in mature stands on Cambisols. Stands on Regosols tended to have lower N values than stands on Cambisols. Decreasing N values in recent decades suggest an increasing impact of allochthonous N loads with isotopically lighter N.
41413971|Production and distribution of fine roots (< 2.0 mm diameter) are central to belowground ecological processes. This is especially true where vegetation serves as a pump to prevent saturation of soil and possible drainage of excess water into or from potentially toxic waste material stored underground or in mounds aboveground. In this study undertaken near Sydney in Australia, we determined fine root biomass and evapotranspiration (ET) on a waste disposal site restored with either a 15-year-old grass sward or plantations of mixed woody species that were either 5 years old (plantation-5) with a vigorous groundcover of pasture legumes and grasses, or 3 years old (plantation-3) with sparse groundcover. These sites were compared with nearby remnant woodland; all four were located within 0.5-km radius at the same site. Ranking of fine root biomass was in the order woodland (12.3 Mg ha) > plantation-5 (8.3 Mg ha) > grass (4.9 Mg ha) > plantation-3 (1.2 Mg ha) and was not correlated with nutrient contents in soil or plants, but reflected the form and age of the vegetation covers. Trends in root length density (RLD) and root area index (RAI) followed those in root biomass, but the differences in RAI were larger than those in biomass amongst the vegetation covers. Annual ET in the dry year of 2009 was similar in the three woody vegetation covers (652-683 mm) and was at least 15% larger than for the grass (555 mm), which experienced restrained growth in winter and periodic mowing. This resulted in drainage from the grass cover while there was no drainage from any of the woody vegetation covers. In plantation-5, root biomass, RAI and RLD were reduced in the rain shadow side of the tree rows. Similarly, the amount and depth of rooting in the groundcover were reduced close to the trees compared to midway between rows. Differences in the root variables were larger than those in ET, which suggested that more roots were produced than were needed for water uptake and/or presence of considerable amounts of necromass. We conclude that vegetation covers, such as plantation-5 consisting of widely spaced trees and a heavy groundcover containing winter-active pasture legumes, will promote year-round water-use with a reduced risk of deep rooting that could breach buried wastes. This function could be sustained through progressive thinning of trees to account for not more than 25% of the whole canopy cover; this will minimize competition for limited soil-water and thereby constrain deep rooting as vegetation ages and attains climax.
25622884|Successful ecosystem-based management requires the selection and use of informative indicators of ecosystem status. We analyzed seven marine food web models to evaluate the performance of candidate indicators of ecosystem structure and function. The basic approach involved simulating fishing perturbations to each model, measuring the response of ecosystem attributes and candidate indicators to the perturbations, and testing the ability of the indicators to track changes in the values of the attributes. We focused on 22 ecosystem attributes, encompassing structural and functional properties that are relevant to a number of stakeholder groups but are typically difficult to measure directly (for example, food web structure, energy recycling). We tested for correlations between the attributes and 27 empirically tractable candidate indicators (for example, foraging guild biomasses, ratios of community-level groups) within each of the models and quantified consistency in indicator performance across the models. Our analysis suggests that no single indicator is sufficient to describe all of the ecosystem attributes, but at the same time highlights broad, catch-all indicators (for example, detritivores, jellyfish) and distinguishes the strongest attribute-indicator relationships. Ecosystem indicators consisting of lower-trophic level, higher-productivity functional groups tended to perform particularly well. We also identified indicators that showed strong or weak associations with different attributes, but together captured changes in nearly all of them. Examples of such complementary indicators include phytoplankton, zooplanktivorous fish, piscivorous fish, and trophic level of the catch. Quantitative approaches such as this one will enable managers to make informed decisions about ecosystem-scale monitoring in the oceans.
40793008|A ubiquitous problem for community-based regional environmental agencies is to set strategic management priorities among a myriad of issues and multiple stakeholder perspectives. Here, we quantify the strategic management priorities for natural capital and ecosystem services using multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) in a case study of the South Australian Murray-Darling Basin Natural Resources Management Board (the Board) region. A natural capital and ecosystem services framework was tailored to present decision-makers with a range of potential issues for strategic consideration as goal hierarchies in MCDA. Priorities were elicited from the Board and its four regionally based consultative groups using the Analytical Hierarchy Process and swing weights. Centered log ratio transformed weights were analyzed using multiple pairwise ANOVA comparisons (Dunnett's T3) and hierarchical cluster analysis. Substantial variation in priorities occurred between decision -makers. Nonetheless, analysis of priorities for assets and services robustly demonstrated that water was the highest priority, followed by land, then biota, with atmosphere the lowest priority. Decisionmakers also considered that environmental management should not impact negatively on built or social capital. Few significant differences in priorities were found between decision-maker groups. However, clusters of manager types were found which represent distinct alternative management strategies, notably the prioritization of either intermediate or final ecosystem services. The results have implications for regional environmental decision-making and suggest that embracing variation in perspectives may be a better way forward for multistakeholder MCDA. The study operationalizes natural capital and ecosystem services by providing strategic priorities for targeting management and policy within the context of communitybased, regional environmental management.
40603507|Coastal mangrove forests were historically considered as a source of organic matter (OM) for adjacent marine systems due to high net primary production; yet recent research suggesting little uptake through the food web because of low nutritional quality, challenges the concept of trophic linkage between mangrove forests and coral reefs. To examine the importance of mangrove forests to coral reef nutrient availability, we examined sessile reef-forming invertebrate consumers including hard corals, sponges, a bivalve mollusc, polychaete annelid and tunicate, and potential sources of OM (decaying mangrove leaves, microalgae, macroalgae, and seagrass) in Bocas del Toro, Panama. Using stable isotope analyses of  and C and a concentrationdependent version of the IsoSource mixing model, we were able to discriminate among and determine the range of potential contributions of our four OM sources to consumers. Contributions of microalgae and macroalgae were often indeterminate due to high variability, yet seagrass and mangrove contributions were often substantial. Mangrove OM ranged across sites and species of filter feeders from 0 to 57%, 7 to 41%, and 18 to 52% for sponges, file clams, and feather duster worms, respectively. Mangrove contribution to corals (Acropora cervicor nis, Agaricia fragilis, Agaricia tenuifolia, Montastrea annularis, Diploria sp.) ranged from 0 to 44%. To examine whether OM contribution varied with distance from mangroves, we conducted a sponge transplant experiment that demonstrated declining mangrove contribution across three sponge species with increasing distance from the shore. These results supported the hypothesis of mangrove-coral reef nutrient linkages, providing the first evidence that mangrove inputs of OM to sessile invertebrates are substantial, accounting for 0-57% of the composition.
25470346|The arrangement and composition of flowpath types within a given network are thought to govern its functioning. This concept assumes that different flowpath types are functionally distinct. We investigated this assumption in a fluvial ecosystem by comparing the riparian zone, parafluvial zone (in-channel gravel bars), and surface stream. We hypothesized that differences in advection, uptake, and sorption would render material cycles more (a) open and (b) mutable in the surface stream, whereas the converse would occur in the riparian zone, and an intermediate state would be seen in the intervening parafluvial zone. To test our first hypothesis, we predicted that spatial heterogeneity in solute concentrations would be least in the surface stream, greater in the parafluvial zone, and greatest in the riparian zone. Using a null model, we ascertained that this pattern was shown by all solute species we examined (nitrate, ammonium, total dissolved inorganic nitrogen [DIN], dissolved organic N, total dissolved N, soluble reactive phosphorus, dissolved organic carbon, and chloride). To test our second hypothesis, we predicted that temporal change in spatial heterogeneity would be greatest in the surface stream, less in the parafluvial zone, and least in the riparian zone. Nitrate, DIN, and chloride showed this pattern. In particular, surface stream inorganic N was less spatially variable following months of high rainfall. According to an extant hypothesis, these results suggest that inorganic N processing may be a stable function in this ecosystem. Other solute species did not support our second prediction, perhaps because their retention and release dynamics are influenced principally by geochemistry. Generally, our findings indicate that a geomorphic template can generate spatial patterns in ecosystem function, warranting an expansion of the spiraling framework to a variety of flowpath types.
27823689|It has only recently become apparent that biological activity during winter in seasonally snow-covered ecosystems may exert a significant influence on biogeochemical cycling and ecosystem function. One-seventh of the global soil carbon pool is stored in the bulk soil component of arctic ecosystems. Consistent climate change predictions of substantial increases in winter air temperatures and snow depths for the Arctic indicate that this region may become a significant net annual source of CO2 to the atmosphere if its bulk soil carbon is decomposed. We used snow fences to investigate the influence of a moderate increase in snow depth from approximately 0.3 m (ambient) to approximately 1 m on winter carbon dioxide fluxes from mesic birch hummock tundra in northern Canada. We differentiated fluxes derived from the bulk soil and plant-associated carbon pools using an experimental 'weeding' manipulation. Increased snow depth enhanced the wintertime carbon flux from both pools, strongly suggesting that respiration from each was sensitive to warmer soil temperatures. Furthermore, deepened snow resulted in cooler and relatively stable soil temperatures during the spring-thaw period, as well as delayed and fewer freezethaw cycles. The snow fence treatment increased mean total winter efflux from 27 to 43 g CO2-C m2. Because total 2004 growing season net ecosystem exchange for this site is estimated at 2937 g CO2-C m2, our results strongly suggest that a moderate increase in snow depth can enhance winter respiration sufficiently to switch the ecosystem annual net carbon exchange from a sink to source, resulting in net CO2 release to the atmosphere.
25053880|Recent, parallel developments in the study of freshwater and marine ecosystems have provided evidence that net heterotrophic systems (those in which respiratory organic matter destruction exeeds photosynthetic production) are more prevalent than hitherto believed, including most rivers, oligo- to mesotrophic lakes and some oligotrophic regions of the ocean. In parallel, these aquatic ecosystems have been shown to act as
3658973|Nomadism in animals is a response to resource distributions that are highly variable in time and space. Using the avian fauna of the Mediterranean-climate region of southcentral Australia, we tested a number of variables to determine if they predicted nomadism. These variables were species body mass, the distance in body mass terms to the edge of a body mass aggregation, and diet (for example, seeds, invertebrates, nectar, or plants). We utilized two different classifications of the avifauna that diverged in their definition of nomadic to build two different predictive models. Using both classifications, distance to the edge of a body mass aggregation was found to be a significant predictor of nomadism. There was also evidence that nomads tend to feed on nectar and tend to be large. The significance of the variables body mass and diet (nectar) may reflect the greater energy requirements of large birds and the inherent variability of nectar as a food source. The significance of the variable distance to the edge of a body mass aggregation provides further evidence of inherent variability in resources between domains of scale. The edges of body mass aggregations are hypothesized to be areas of increased resource variability that reflect the transition from one scale of landscape pattern to another.
41505961|The sensitivity of surface waters to acidic deposition is governed by the interaction of catchment geology, soils, topography, land use, climate and atmospheric deposition. Accordingly at the landscape scale, catchment attributes may be used to predict lake chemistry (for example, acid neutralising capacity (ANC), pH, calcium (Ca) and dissolved organic carbon (DOC)). Empirical (multiple linear regression) models based on average measured chemistry (2000-2006) for 204 lakes in Nova Scotia (NS) Canada, and their catchment attributes, were used to predict chemistry for all lakes in NS (n = 6104). Damage to aquatic biota, such as loss of species and/or reduced biodiversity has been widely evaluated using critical chemical thresholds commonly based on pH, ANC and Ca. The proportion of sensitive lakes in NS (that is, the stock at risk) was estimated as lakes with ANC less than 20 eq l, pH below 6, and Ca less than 75 eq l (13, 73 and 74%, respectively). Many lakes in NS are characterized by high DOC (> 7 mg l); in these lakes organic acids contribute to total acidity, making anthropogenic influences difficult to discern. To account for the potential contribution of organic acidity, all lakes with pH below 6 (and DOC < 7 mg l) and lakes below a threshold for ANC adjusted for organic acids were quantified; 63% of the lakes fell below either of these thresholds. Despite substantial reductions in sulphur emissions in North America since the 1980s, many lakes in NS remain at risk to acidic deposition.
3658616|Old forests are generally believed to exhibit low net primary productivity (NPP) and therefore to be insignificant carbon sinks. This relationship between age and NPP is based, in part, on the hypothesis that the biomass of respiratory tissues such as sapwood increases with age to a point where all photosynthate is required just to maintain existing tissue. However, this theoretical connection between respiration:assimilation ratios and forest productivity is based on age-dependent trends in the sapwood:leaf ratios of individual trees and even-aged stands; it does not take into account such processes in natural forests as disproportional increases in shade-tolerant species over time and multiple-age cohorts. Ignoring succession and structural complexity may lead to large underestimates of the productivity of old forests and inaccurate estimates of the ages at which forest productivity declines. To address this problem, we compared biomass allocation and productivity between whitebark pine, a shade-intolerant, early-successional tree species, and subalpine fir, a shade-tolerant, late-successional species, by harvesting 14 whitebark pines and nine subalpine firs that varied widely in dbh and calculating regression models for dbh vs annual productivity and biomass allocation to leaves, sapwood, and heartwood. Late-successional subalpine fir allocated almost twice as much biomass to leaves as early-successional whitebark pine. Subalpine firs also had a much lower allocation to sapwood and higher growth rates across all tree sizes. We then modeled biomass allocation and productivity for 12 natural stands in western Montana that were dominated by subalpine fir and whitebark pine varying in age from 67 to 458 years by applying the regressions to all trees in each stand. Whole-stand sapwood:leaf ratios and stand productivity increased asymptotically with age. Sapwood:leaf ratios and productivity of whitebark pine in these stands increased for approximately 200-300 years and then decreased slowly over the next 200 years. In contrast, sapwood:leaf ratios of all sizes of subalpine fir were lower than those of pine and productivity was higher. As stands shifted in dominance from pine to fir with age, subalpine fir appeared to maintain gradually increasing rates of whole-forest productivity until stands were approximately 400 years old. These results suggest that forests such as these may continue to sequester carbon for centuries. If shade-tolerant species that predominate late in succession maintain high assimilation-to-respiration ratios in other forests, we may be underestimating production in old forests, and current models may underestimate the importance of mature forests as carbon sinks for atmospheric CO
40296320|Secondary forests are becoming increasingly widespread in the tropics, but our understanding of how secondary succession affects carbon (C) cycling and C sequestration in these ecosystems is limited. We used a well-replicated 80-year pasture to forest successional chronosequence and primary forest in Puerto Rico to explore the relationships among litterfall, litter quality, decomposition, and soil C pools. Litterfall rates recovered rapidly during early secondary succession and averaged 10.5 ( 0.1 SE) Mg/ha/y among all sites over a 2-year period. Although forest plant community composition and plant life form dominance changed during succession, litter chemistry as evaluated by sequential C fractions and by C-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy did not change significantly with forest age, nor did leaf decomposition rates. Root decomposition was slower than leaves and was fastest in the 60-year-old sites and slowest in the 10-and 30-year-old sites. Common litter and common site experiments suggested that site conditions were more important controls than litter quality in this chronosequence. Bulk soil C content was positively correlated with hydrophobic leaf compounds, suggesting that there is greater soil C accumulation if leaf litter contains more tannins and waxy compounds relative to more labile compounds. Our results suggest that most key C fluxes associated with litter production and decomposition re-establish rapidly: within a decade or two during tropical secondary succession. Therefore, recovery of leaf litter C cycling processes after pasture use are faster than aboveground woody biomass and species accumulation, indicating that these young secondary forests have the potential to recover litter cycling functions and provide some of the same ecosystem services of primary forests.
27823754|Stable isotope ratios of terrestrial ecosystem nitrogen (N) pools reflect internal processes and inputoutput balances. Disturbance generally increases N cycling and loss, yet few studies have examined ecosystem 15N over a disturbance-recovery sequence. We used a chronosequence approach to examine N distribution and 15N during forest regrowth after agricultural abandonment. Site ages ranged from 10 to 115 years, with similar soils, climate, land-use history, and overstory vegetation (white pine Pinus strobus). Foliar N and 15N decreased as stands aged, consistent with a progressive tightening of the N cycle during forest regrowth on agricultural lands. Over time, foliar 15N became more negative, indicating increased fractionation along the mineralizationmycorrhizalplant uptake pathway. Total ecosystem N was constant across the chronosequence, but substantial internal N redistribution occurred from the mineral soil to plants and litter over 115 years (>25% of ecosystem N or 1,610 kg ha1). Temporal trends in soil 15N generally reflected a redistribution of depleted N from the mineral soil to the developing O horizon. Although plants and soil 15N are coupled over millennial time scales of ecosystem development, our observed divergence between plants and soil suggests that they can be uncoupled during the disturbance-regrowth sequence. The approximate 2 decrease in ecosystem 15N over the century scale suggests significant incorporation of atmospheric N, which was not detected by traditional ecosystem N accounting. Consideration of temporal trends and disturbance legacies can improve our understanding of the influence of broader factors such as climate or N deposition on ecosystem N balances and 15N.
40603646|Ecosystem nutrient budgets often report values for pools and fluxes without any indication of uncertainty, which makes it difficult to evaluate the significance of findings or make comparisons across systems. We present an example, implemented in Excel, of a Monte Carlo approach to estimating error in calculating the N content of vegetation at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire. The total N content of trees was estimated at 847 kg ha with an uncertainty of 8%, expressed as the standard deviation divided by the mean (the coefficient of variation). The individual sources of uncertainty were as follows: uncertainty in allometric equations (5%), uncertainty in tissue N concentrations (3%), uncertainty due to plot variability (6%, based on a sample of 15 plots of 0.05 ha), and uncertainty due to tree diameter measurement error (0.02%). In addition to allowing estimation of uncertainty in budget estimates, this approach can be used to assess which measurements should be improved to reduce uncertainty in the calculated values. This exercise was possible because the uncertainty in the parameters and equations that we used was made available by previous researchers. It is important to provide the error statistics with regression results if they are to be used in later calculations; archiving the data makes resampling analyses possible for future researchers. When conducted using a Monte Carlo framework, the analysis of uncertainty in complex calculations does not have to be difficult and should be standard practice when constructing ecosystem budgets.
27823664|We tested whether pelagic light and nutrient availability, metabolism, organic pools and CO2- supersaturation were related to lake size and surrounding forest cover in late summerautumn measurements among 64 small (0.0220 ha), shallow seepage lakes located in nutrient-rich, calcareous moraine soils in North Zealand, Denmark. We found a strong implicit scaling to lake size as light availability increased significantly with lake size as light availability increased significantly with lake size while nutrient availability, phytoplankton biomass and dissolved organic matter declined. Forest lakes had significantly stronger net heterotrophic traits than open lakes as higher values were observed for light attenuation above and in the water, dissolved organic matter, pelagic community respiration (R) relative to maximum gross primary production (R/GPP) and CO2-supersaturation. Total-phosphorus was the main predictor of phytoplankton biomass (Chl) despite a much weaker relationship than observed in previous studies of larger lakes. Maximum gross primary production increased with algal biomass and decreased with dissolved organic matter, whereas community respiration increased with dissolved organic matter and particularly with gross primary production. These results suggest that exogenous organic matter supplements primary production as an energy source to heterotrophs in these small lakes, and particularly so in forest lakes experiencing substantial shading from the forest and dissolved humic material. This suggestion is supported by 2030-fold CO2 supersaturaiton in the surface water of the smallest forest lakes and more than sixfold supersaturation in 75% of all measurements making these lakes among the most supersaturated temperate lakes examined so far.
3658866|We investigated the atmospheric concentrations and deposition fluxes of major ions to the Turkey Lakes Watershed (TLW) between 1980 and 1996. During that time, daily
23501476|Nitrogen immobilization in fresh litter represents a significant N flux in forest ecosystems, and changes in this process resulting from atmospheric N deposition could have important implications for ecosystem responses. We conducted two leaf decay experiments, using 15 N-labeled sugar maple leaf litter, to quantify N transport from old litter and soil to fresh litter during early stages of decomposition, and we examined the influence of litter N concentration and soil N availability on upward N transfer in a northern hardwood forest. After one year of decay, the average N transfer from soil to fresh litter (2.63 mg N g -1 litter) was much higher than the N transfer from older litter (1 - to 2-years-old) to fresh litter (0.37 mg N g -1 litter). We calculated the ratio of annual N transfer per unit of excess 15 N pool for these two N sources. The ratio was not significantly different between old litter and soil, suggesting that fungi utilize N in the old litter and mineral soil pools for transport to decaying fresh litter with similar efficiency. Initial litter N concentration had a significant effect on upward N flux into decaying leaf litter, whereas no effect of soil N fertilization was observed. Reduction in the flux from soil to fresh litter owing to anthropogenic N inputs probably contributes significantly to changing soil N dynamics. Future work is needed on fungal N acquisition and transport as well as the fungal taxa involved in this process and their responses to changing environments.
3659046|Land use can exert a powerful influence on ecological systems, yet our understanding of the natural and social factors that influence land use and land-cover change is incomplete. We studied land-cover change in an area of about
27823685|We examined the dynamics of organic nitrogen (N) turnover in situ across a primary successional sequence in interior Alaska, USA, in an attempt to understand the magnitude of these fluxes in cold, seasonally frozen soils. Through a combination of soil extraction procedures and measurements of 13C-enriched CO2 efflux from soils amended in the field with 13C-labeled amino acids, we were able to trace the fate of this N form. Amino acid turnover in situ at soil temperatures of 10C or below show that amino acids represent a highly dynamic soil N pool with turnover times of approximately 36 h. The rapid turnover of free amino acids is associated with high soil proteolytic activity, which in turn is tightly correlated with soil protein concentration. Moreover, these estimates of soil amino acid turnover in the field correspond well with measurements of amino acid turnover under equivalent temperatures in the laboratory. The gross flux of amino acid-N over the growing season greatly exceeded the annual vegetation N requirement, suggesting that microbial biomass represent a significant sink for this organic N. Depending on the strength of this sink, N flow via free soil amino acids can potentially account for the entire N demand of vegetation in the absence of net N mineralization. These relationships underscore the important biogeochemical role of labile DON fractions in high-latitude forest ecosystems.
27823717|We conducted a 2-year in situ experiment to test the capacity of iron additions to reverse the decline experienced by a Posidonia oceanica meadow colonizing carbonate, iron poor sediment. Iron additions improved the sediment conditions that support seagrass growth by decreasing the sediment sulfide concentration and sulfate reduction rates, and decreased sulfide intrusion into the plants. Iron additions for 2 years did not significantly change survivorship of shoots present at the onset of the experiment, but significantly increased shoot recruitment and survivorship of shoots recruited during the experiment. After 2 years, iron additions reversed seagrass decline and yielded positive growth rates of shoots relative to control populations where seagrass continued to decline. This research demonstrates that seagrass decline in carbonate sediments may be reversed by targeting critical processes such are sediment sulfide pools and seagrass nutritional status, controlling the functioning of the ecosystem.
41413035|Recent advances in soil C saturation concepts have increased our understanding of soil C storage and mineralization without explicit links to N retention and saturation theories. Here, we exploit soil texture and organic matter (OM) gradients in a Maryland, USA hardwood forest to test hypotheses that link soil organic C saturation with soil N retention and nitrification. At our site, mineral-associated OM (MAOM) N concentrations in the silt + clay particle fraction (g MAOM-N g silt + clay) were negatively correlated with the fraction of NH-N transferred to MAOM during a 3-day in situ incubation (R = -0.85), but positively correlated with potential net nitrification (R = 0.76). Moreover, the fraction of NH-N transferred to MAOM was negatively correlated with potential net nitrification (R =  0.76). Due to physicochemical stabilization mechanisms, MAOM is considered to be resistant to mineralization. Carbon saturation theory suggests that the proportion of new C inputs that can be stabilized in MAOM decreases in proportion to the amount of C already present in the fraction; C inputs not stabilized in MAOM are susceptible to rapid mineralization. We demonstrate that NH-N stabilization in MAOM is similar to C stabilization in MAOM and associated with nitrification, thereby extending soil C saturation theory to mineral N and linking it with N retention and saturation theories. These data and concepts complement N saturation models that emphasize vegetation type, N input levels, and microbial turnover. Incorporating the OM retention capacity of fine mineral particles into N saturation theory can improve predictions of N saturation rates and resolve inconsistent relationships between soil organic matter, texture, N mineralization, and N retention.
40928242|Determination of the direct causal factors controlling wildfires is key to understanding wildfirevegetation-climate dynamics in a changing climate and for developing sustainable management strategies for biodiversity conservation and maintenance of long-term forest productivity. In this study, we sought to understand how the fire frequency of a large mixedwood forest in the central boreal shield varies as a result of temporal and spatial factors. We reconstructed the fire history of an 11,600-km area located in the northwestern boreal forest of Ontario, using archival data of large fires occurring since 1921 and dendrochronological dating for fires prior to 1921. The fire cycle decreased from 295 years for the period of 1820-1920 to approximately 100 years for the period of 1921-2008. Spatially, fire frequency increased with latitude, attributable to higher human activities that have increased fragmentation and fire suppression in the southern portion of the study area. Fire frequency also increased with distance to waterbodies, and was higher on Podzols that were strongly correlated with moderate drainage and coniferous vegetation. The temporal increase of fire frequency in the central region, unlike western and eastern boreal forests where fire frequency has decreased, may be a result of increased warm and dry conditions associated with climate change in central North America, suggesting that the response of wildfire to global climate change may be regionally individualistic. The significant spatial factors we found in this study are in agreement with other wildfire studies, indicating the commonality of the influences by physiographic features and human activities on regional fire regimes across the boreal forest. Overall, wildfire in the central boreal shield is more frequent than that in the wetter eastern boreal region and less frequent than that in the drier western boreal region, confirming a climatic top-down control on the fire activities of the entire North American boreal forest.
43677495|Recent studies report that multifunctionalitythe simultaneous provision of multiple ecosystem functionsin drylands depends on biodiversity. Others report that specific size distributions of vegetation patches indicate overall ecosystem health and function. Using a biocrust (micro-vegetation of mosses, lichens, and cyanobacteria) model system, and multivariate modeling, we determined the relative importance of biodiversity, patch-size distribution, and total abundance to nutrient cycling and multifunctionality. In most cases we explained at least 20%, and up to 65%, of the variation in ecosystem functions, and 42% of the variation in multifunctionality. Species richness was the most important determinant of C cycling, constituting an uncommonly clear link between diversity and function in a non-experimental field setting. Regarding C cycling in gypsiferous soils, we found that patch size distributions with a greater frequency of small to medium patches, as opposed to very small patches, were more highly functional. Nitrogen cycling was largely a function of biocrust cover in two soil types, whereas in gypsiferous soils, more central-tending patch size distributions were less functional with regards to N cycling. All three community properties were about equally important to multifunctionality. Our results highlight the functional role of biotic attributes other than biodiversity, and indicate that high cover and diversity, together with a particular patch-size distribution, must be attained simultaneously to maximize multifunctionality. The results also agree with trends observed with other terrestrial and aquatic communities that more biodiversity is needed to sustain multifunctionality compared to single functions considered independently.
27823661|Ephemeral wetlands in the Antarctic dry valleys alternate as sites of in situ net primary production when inundated and sources of organic matter for eolian export when desiccated. Evidence of this switch was obtained from observations made in two field seasons (2001 and 2003), coincidentally separated by a season of exceptionally high water yield from nearby glaciers (2002). In 2001, organic matter on soil surfaces adjacent to several ponds in Taylor Valley often exceeded 500 g C/m2. One pond had a total stock of approximately 1,388 kg organic C on soils within 20 m of the shoreline. These materials formed concentric rings around the pond, suggesting historically higher water levels, consistent with aerial photographs taken a decade earlier (1993). In 2003, these materials were submerged by water apparently received during the intervening year. Also in 2003, pitfall traps were placed along the edges of exposed organic matter adjacent to another pond to evaluate organic material erosion by wind. Over 4.5 days, traps collected 0.22  0.12 to 2.91  1.68 g C/m2, both confirming and quantifying wind transport. These results indicate that organic matter production and movement, driven by seasonal and decadal patterns of inundation/desiccation of small, ephemeral wetlands, overlay longer term (centuries and millennia) and larger scale (landscape) patterns of production and distribution driven by regional fluctuations in hydrological balance between glaciers and large freshwater lakes.
40603434|Over the past 50 years, China's ancient agricultural village landscapes have been transformed by unprecedented social technological, and ecological changes. Although these dense anthropogenic mosaics of croplands, settlements, and other used lands cover more than 2 million square kilometers across China, the nature of these changes and their environmental impacts remain poorly understood because their spatial scale is generally too small to measure accurately using conventional landchange methods. Here, we investigate the regional consequences of fine-scale landscape changes across China's village regions from 1945 to 2002 using high-resolution, field-validated ecological mapping of a regionally stratified sample of village landscapes at five sites across China, with uncertainties estimated using model-based resampling and Monte Carlo methods. From 1945 to 2002, built surface areas increased by about 7% (90% credible interval = 2-17%) across China's village regions, an increase equivalent to about three times the total urban area of China in 2000. Although this striking result is explained by a near doubling of already large village populations and by lower housing density per capita in rural areas, two unexpected changes were also observed: a 9% net increase (4% to + 21%) in regional cover by closed canopy trees and an 11 % net decline (30% to + 3%) in annual crops. These major regional changes were driven primarily by intensive finescale land-transformation processes including tree planting and regrowth around new buildings, cropland abandonment, and by the adoption of perennial crops and improved forestry practices. Moreover, the fragmentation, heterogeneity, and complexity of village landscapes increased over time. By coupling regional sampling and upscaling with observations in the field, this study revealed that fine-scale land-change processes in anthropogenie landscapes have the potential for globally significant environmental consequences that are not anticipated, measured, or explained by conventional coarser resolution approaches to global and regional change measurement or modeling.
40603501|The GLOBIO3 model has been developed to assess human-induced changes in biodiversity, in the past, present, and future at regional and global scales. The model is built on simple cause-effect relationships between environmental drivers and biodiversity impacts, based on state-of-the-art knowledge. The mean abundance of original species relative to their abundance in undisturbed ecosystems (MSA) is used as the indicator for biodiversity. Changes in drivers are derived from the IMAGE 2.4 model. Drivers considered are landcover change, land-use intensity, fragmentation, climate change, atmospheric nitrogen deposition, and infrastructure development. GLOBIO3 addresses (i) the impacts of environmental drivers on MSA and their relative importance; (ii) expected trends under various future scenarios; and (iii) the likely effects of various policy response options. GLOBIO3 has been used successfully in several integrated regional and global assessments. Three different global-scale policy options have been evaluated on their potential to reduce MSA loss. These options are: climate-change mitigation through expanded use of bio-energy, an increase in plantation forestry, and an increase in protected areas. We conclude that MSA loss is likely to continue during the coming decades. Plantation forestry may help to reduce the rate of loss, whereas climate-change mitigation through the extensive use of bioenergy crops will, in fact, increase this rate of loss. The protection of 20% of all large ecosystems leads to a small reduction in the rate of loss, provided that protection is effective and that currently degraded protected areas are restored.
3658917| To evaluate the effects of climate change on boreal forest ecosystems, both atmospheric CO
3658940|Applied ecological models that are used to understand and manage natural systems often rely on spatial data as input. Spatial uncertainty in these data can propagate into model predictions. Uncertainty analysis, sensitivity analysis, error analysis, error budget analysis, spatial decision analysis, and hypothesis testing using neutral models are all techniques designed to explore the relationship between variation in model inputs and variation in model predictions. Although similar methods can be used to answer them, these approaches address different questions. These approaches differ in (a) whether the focus is forward or backward (forward to evaluate the magnitude of variation in model predictions propagated or backward to rank input parameters by their influence); (b) whether the question involves model robustness to large variations in spatial pattern or to small deviations from a reference map; and (c) whether processes that generate input uncertainty (for example, cartographic error) are of interest. In this commentary, we propose a taxonomy of approaches, all of which clarify the relationship between spatial uncertainty and the predictions of ecological models. We describe existing techniques and indicate a few areas where research is needed.
3658651|Land-use change in the tropics is creating secondary forest at an unprecedented rate. In the tropical Americas, mature dry tropical forest is rapidly being converted to secondary forest during the fallow period of shifting cultivation. We investigated litter phosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N) dynamics in forests recovering from shifting cultivation of maize (corn) in three regions of the Southern Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. Our goal was to understand how nutrient and water availability affect forest recovery following conversion of mature forest to agricultural land. To investigate such changes at a regional scale, newly fallen litter was collected monthly along a seasonal, a successional, and a precipitation gradient. Reflecting possible P limitation, litter P concentration declined with forest age, while litter N concentration did not differ between age classes. Average litter P concentration from the southern, wettest region was 0.87 mg/g, almost twice the litter P concentration in the drier central and northern regions (0.44 and 0.45 mg/g, respectively). Average N concentrations of litter from the three regions ranged from 1.1% to 1.2%, with no regional differences. However, minima in both P and N concentration from all regions were pronouncedly timed with peak litterfall, suggesting nutrient retranslocation during periods of water stress. Additionally, successional differences in litter P were clearest during wetter months. P nutrient-use efficiency was lowest in the southern region and highest in the central and northern study regions. N nutrient-use efficiency was up to 40 times lower than P nutrient-use efficiency and showed no regional differences. Overall, our results suggest that litter nutrient dynamics in secondary dry tropical forests of the Southern Yucatan are strongly influenced by water and nutrient availability, especially P, as well as land-use history.
40296280|Plant biomass accumulation and productivity are important determinants of ecosystem carbon (C) balance during post-fire succession. In boreal black spruce (Picea mariana) forests near Delta Junction, Alaska, we quantified aboveground plant biomass and net primary productivity (ANPP) for 4 years after a 1999 wildfire in a welldrained (dry) site, and also across a dry and a moderately well-drained (mesic) chronosequence of sites that varied in time since fire (2 to ~116 years). Four years after fire, total biomass at the 1999 burn site had increased exponentially to 160  21 g m (mean  1SE) and vascular ANPP had recovered to 138  32 g m y, which was not different than that of a nearby unburned stand (160  48 g m y) that had similar pre-fire stand structure and understory composition. Production in the young site was dominated by re-sprouting graminoids, whereas production in the unburned site was dominated by black spruce. On the dry and mesic chronosequences, total biomass pools, including overstory and understory vascular and non-vascular plants, and lichens, increased logarithmically (dry) or linearly (mesic) with increasing site age, reaching a maximum of 2469  180 (dry) and 4008  233 g m (mesic) in mature stands. Biomass differences were primarily due to higher tree density in the mesic sites because mass per tree was similar between sites. ANPP of vascular and non-vascular plants increased linearly over time in the mesic chronosequence to 335  68 g m y in the mature site, but in the dry chronosequence it peaked at 410  43 g m y in a 15-year-old stand dominated by deciduous trees and shrubs. Key factors regulating biomass accumulation and production in these ecosystems appear to be the abundance and composition of re-sprouting species early in succession, the abundance of deciduous trees and shrubs in intermediate aged stands, and the density of black spruce across all stand ages. A better understanding of the controls over these factors will help predict how changes in climate and fire regime will affect the carbon balance of Interior Alaska.
40928222|We examine macronutrient limitation in New Zealand (NZ) lakes where, contrary to the phosphorus (P) only control paradigm, nitrogen (N) control is widely adopted to alleviate eutrophication. A review of published results of nutrient enrichment experiments showed that N more frequently limited lake productivity than P; however, stoichiometric analysis of a sample of 121 NZ lakes indicates that the majority (52.9%) of lakes have a mean ratio of total nitrogen (TN) to total phosphorus (TP) (by mass) indicative of potential P-limitation (> 15:1), whereas only 14.0% of lakes have mean TN:TP indicative of potential N-limitation (< 7:1). Comparison of TN, TP, and chlorophyll a data between 121 NZ lakes and 689 lakes in 15 European Union (EU) countries suggests that at the national scale, N has a greater role in determining lake productivity in NZ than in the EU. TN:TP is significantly lower in NZ lakes across all trophic states, a difference that is driven primarily by significantly lower in-lake TN concentrations at low trophic states and significantly higher TP concentrations at higher trophic states. The form of the TN:TP relationship differs between NZ and the EU countries, suggesting that lake nutrient sources and/or loss mechanisms differ between the two regions. Dual control of N and P should be the status quo for lacustrine eutrophication control in New Zealand and more effort is needed to reduce P inputs.
40296310|In a combined field and laboratory study in the southwest of Burkina Faso, we quantified soilatmosphere NO and NO exchange. NO emissions were measured during two field campaigns throughout the growing seasons 2005 and 2006 at five different experimental sites, that is, a natural savanna site and four agricultural sites planted with sorghum (n = 2), cotton and peanut. The agricultural fields were not irrigated and not fertilized. Although NO exchange mostly fluctuated between -2 and 8 g NO-N m h, peak NO emissions of 10-35 g NO-N m h during the second half of June 2005, and up to 150 g NO N m h at the onset of the rainy season 2006, were observed at the native savanna site, whereas the effect of the first rain event on N O emissions at the crop sites was low or even not detectable. Additionally, a fertilizer experiment was conducted at a sorghum field that was divided into three plots receiving different amounts of N fertilizer (plot A: 140 kg N ha; plot B: 52.5 kg N ha; plot C: control). During the first 3 weeks after fertilization, only a minor increase in NO emissions at the two fertilized plots was detected. After 24 days, however, NO emission rates increased exponentially at plot A up to a mean of 80 g NO-N m h, whereas daily mean values at plot B reached only 19 g NO-N m h, whereas NO flux rates at plot C remained unchanged. The calculated annual NO emission of the nature reserve site amounted to 0.52 kg NO-N ha a in 2005 and to 0.67 kg NO-N ha a in 2006, whereas the calculated average annual NO release of the crop sites was only 0.19 kg NO-N ha a and 0.20 kg NO-N ha a in 2005 and 2006, respectively. In a laboratory study, potential NO and NO formation under different soil moisture regimes were determined. Single wetting of dry soil to medium soil water content with subsequent drying caused the highest increase in NO and NO emissions with maximum fluxes occurring 1 day after wetting. The stimulating effect lasted for 3-4 days. A weaker stimulation of NO and NO fluxes was detected during daily wetting of soil to medium water content, whereas no significant stimulating effect of single or daily wetting to high soil water content (>67%
23325685|The quantity of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emissions from inland waters into the atmosphere varies, depending on spatial and temporal variations in the partial pressure of CO 2 (pCO 2 ) in waters. Using 22,664 water samples from 851 boreal lakes and 64 boreal streams, taken from different water depths and during different months we found large spatial and temporal variations in pCO 2 , ranging from below atmospheric equilibrium to values greater than 20,000 atm with a median value of 1048 atm for lakes (n = 11,538 samples) and 1176 atm for streams (n = 11,126). During the spring water mixing period in April/May, distributions of pCO 2 were not significantly different between stream and lake ecosystems (P > 0.05), suggesting that pCO 2 in spring is determined by processes that are common to lakes and streams. During other seasons of the year, however, pCO 2 differed significantly between lake and stream ecosystems (P < 0.0001). The variable that best explained the differences in seasonal pCO 2 variations between lakes and streams was the temperature difference between bottom and surface waters. Even small temperature differences resulted in a decline of pCO 2 in lake surface waters. Minimum pCO 2 values in lake surface waters were reached in July. Towards autumn pCO 2 strongly increased again in lake surface waters reaching values close to the ones found in stream surface waters. Although pCO 2 strongly increased in the upper water column towards autumn, pCO 2 in lake bottom waters still exceeded the pCO 2 in surface waters of lakes and streams. We conclude that throughout the year CO 2 is concentrated in bottom waters of boreal lakes, although these lakes are typically shallow with short water retention times. Highly varying amounts of this CO 2 reaches surface waters and evades to the atmosphere. Our findings have important implications for up-scaling CO 2 fluxes from single lake and stream measurements to regional and global annual fluxes.
3658696|Many types of ecosystems have little or no N
23501480|Wood ants (Formica rufa group) are regarded as key-stone species in boreal and mountain forests of Europe and Asia by their effect on ecosystem carbon (C) and nutrient pools and fluxes. To quantify the impact of their activity on boreal forest ecosystems, C, nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) and calcium (Ca) pools and fluxes in wood ant nests (WAN), and soil were assessed along a 5-, 30-, 60-, and 100-year-old Norway spruce (Picea abies L. Karsten) dominated successional gradient in eastern Finland. Amounts of C and nutrients in WAN increased with stand age, but contained less than 1 % of total C and nutrient pools in these stands. The CO 2 -efflux from nests was also insignificant, as compared to CO 2 -efflux from the forest floor. Annually, the amount of C brought by wood ants into their nests as honeydew, prey and nest-building materials ranged from 2.7 to 49.3 kg ha -1 C, but this is only 0.10.7% of the combined net primary production of trees and understorey in boreal forests. The difference between wood ant nest C inputs and outputs was very small in the younger-aged stands, and increased in the older stands. Carbon accumulation rates in nests over a 100 year period are estimated to be less than 10 kg ha -1 a -1 . In contrast to C, annual inputs of N, P, and K are larger compared to wood ant nest nutrient pool size, ranging from 3 to 6% of the annual tree stand and understorey uptake. This indicates a more rapid turnover and transport of N, P, and K out of WAN, and suggests that wood ants increase the cycling rate of these nutrients in boreal forests.
25470412|Industrial ecosystems are fruitful sites for examinating ecosystem management. Sewage treatment plants, breweries, biotechnology reactors, and ethanol production plants are all ecosystems-complex biophysical systems in which communities of bacteria, yeast, fungi, and other organisms are maintained to extract services or resources. The industrial analog to ecosystem management is "process control", where the industrial operator is the ecosystem manager. Process control is the management of a production process through the careful measurement and adjustment of its physical and chemical conditions. By analyzing the history of process control in activated sludge sewage treatment plants, I show the importance of craft knowledge in ecosystem management. Sewage treatment plant workers, through their experience in operating the plants, developed means of evaluating process conditions based on sight and smell rather than laboratory analysis. These craft techniques developed and persisted in spite of concerted efforts on the part of sanitary scientists to institute "scientific" control of the process based on laboratory analysis and models of microbial kinetics, suggesting that craft knowledge of ecosystem function can contribute to successful management. The craft knowledge of sewage plant workers is a kind of adaptive management, in which workers constantly adjust ecosystem parameters and observe the results. This approach is contrasted to "command and control" approaches to treatment plant automation, which have met with uneven success.
40928210|Theory predicts that wildfires will encounter spatial thresholds where different drivers may become the dominant influence on continued fire spread. Studying these thresholds, however, is limited by a lack of sufficiently detailed data sets. To address this problem, we searched for scale thresholds in data describing wildfire size at the Avon Park Air Force Range, south-central Florida. We used power-law statistics to describe the "heavy-tail" of the fire size distribution, and quantile regression to determine how the edges of data distributions of fire size were related to climate. Power-law statistics revealed a heavy-tail, a pattern consistent with scale threshold theory, which predicts that large fires will be rare because only fires that cross all thresholds will become large. Results from quantile regression suggested that different climate conditions served as critical thresholds, influencing wildfire size at different spatial scales. Modeling at higher quantiles (75th) implicated drought as driving the spread of larger fires, whereas modeling at lower quantiles ( 25th) implicated that wind governed the spread of smaller fires. Fires of intermediate size were negatively associated with relative humidity. Our results are consistent with the idea that fire spread involves scale thresholds, with the small-scale drivers allowing fires to spread after ignition, but with further spread only being possible when largescale drivers are favorable. These results suggest that other data sets that have heavy-tailed distributions may contain patterns generated by scale thresholds, and that these patterns may be revealed using quantile regression.
40603503|We examined the effects of elevated CO and O and their interaction on leaf litter chemistry and decomposition in pure stands of aspen (Populus tremuloides) and mixed stands of birch (Betula papyrifera) and aspen at the Aspen Free Air CO Enrichment (FACE) experiment. A 935-day in situ incubation study was performed using litterbags filled with naturally senesced leaf litter. We found that elevated CO had no overall effects on litter decomposition rates, whereas elevated O reduced litter mass loss (-13%) in the first year. The effect of O on mass loss disappeared in the second year. For aspen litter but not mixed birch-aspen litter, decomposition rates were negatively correlated with initial concentrations of condensed tannins and phenolics. Most soluble components (94% of soluble sugars, 99% of condensed tannins, and 91% of soluble phenolics) and any treatment effects on their initial concentrations disappeared rapidly. However, the mean residence time (MRT) of birch-aspen litter (3.1 years) was significantly lower than that of aspen litter (4.8 years). Further, because of variation in total litterfall, total litter mass, C, lignin and N remaining in the ecosystem was highest under elevated CO and lowest under elevated O during the incubation period. Our results indicate that elevated CO and O can alter short-term litter decomposition dynamics, but longer-term effects will depend more on indirect effects mediated through changes in forest community composition. Treatment effects on soluble components are likely to influence cyclical microbial processes and carbon pulses in the ecosystem only when coupled with increased (CO) or decreased (O) litter inputs.
23501498|Forest succession may cause changes in nitrogen (N) availability, vegetation and fungal community composition that affect N uptake by trees and their mycorrhizal symbionts. Understanding how these changes affect the functioning of the mycorrhizal symbiosis is of interest to ecosystem ecology because of the fundamental roles mycorrhizae play in providing nutrition to trees and structuring forest ecosystems. We investigated changes in tree and mycorrhizal fungal community composition, the availability and uptake of N by trees and mycorrhizal fungi in a forest undergoing a successional transition (age-related loss of early successional tree taxa). In this system, 8296% of mycorrhizal hyphae were ectomycorrhizal (EM). As biomass production of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) trees increased, AM hyphae comprised a significantly greater proportion of total fungal hyphae, and the EM contribution to the N requirement of EM-associated tree taxa declined from greater than 75% to less than 60%. Increasing N availability was associated with lower EM hyphal foraging and 15 N tracer uptake, yet the EM-associated later-successional species Quercus rubra was nonetheless a stronger competitor for 15 N than AM-associated Acer rubrum, likely due to the more extensive nature of the persistent EM hyphal network. These results indicate that successional increases in N availability and co-dominance by AM-associated trees have increased the importance of AM fungi in the mycorrhizal community, while down-regulating EM N acquisition and transfer processes. This work advances understanding of linkages between tree and fungal community composition, and indicates that successional changes in N availability may affect competition between tree taxa with divergent resource acquisition strategies.
23253729|The number of anthropogenic compounds that occur in aquatic ecosystems today is in the thousands, many at trace concentrations. One group of compounds that has captured the interest of both the scientific community and the general public is pharmaceutical and personal care products (PPCPs), for example, hormones, chemotherapy drugs, antihistamines, stimulants, antimicrobials and various cosmetic additives. Toxicology of some PPCPs is currently understood, but their effect on ecological structure and function of aquatic ecosystems is largely unknown. We review sources and fates of these compounds in aquatic ecosystems and discuss how methods developed to study aquatic ecosystem ecology can contribute to our understanding of the influence of PPCPs on aquatic ecosystems. We argue that aquatic ecology has a well-developed tool kit for measuring the transformation, fate, and transport of solutes using assays and experiments and that these methods could be employed to investigate how PPCPs impact ecological function. We discuss the details of these approaches and conclude that application of existing ecological methods to the study of this issue could substantially improve our understanding of the effect of these compounds in aquatic ecosystems.
23501299|Conceptual models of riverfloodplain systems and biogeochemical theory predict that floodplain soil nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) mineralization should increase with hydrologic connectivity to the river and thus increase with distance downstream (longitudinal dimension) and in lower geomorphic units within the floodplain (lateral dimension). We measured rates of in situ soil net ammonification, nitrification, N, and P mineralization using monthly incubations of modified resin cores for a year in the forested floodplain wetlands of Difficult Run, a fifth order urban Piedmont river in Virginia, USA. Mineralization rates were then related to potentially controlling ecosystem attributes associated with hydrologic connectivity, soil characteristics, and vegetative inputs. Ammonification and P mineralization were greatest in the wet backswamps, nitrification was greatest in the dry levees, and net N mineralization was greatest in the intermediately wet toe-slopes. Nitrification also was greater in the headwater sites than downstream sites, whereas ammonification was greater in downstream sites. Annual net N mineralization increased with spatial gradients of greater ammonium loading to the soil surface associated with flooding, soil organic and nutrient content, and herbaceous nutrient inputs. Annual net P mineralization was associated negatively with soil pH and coarser soil texture, and positively with ammonium and phosphate loading to the soil surface associated with flooding. Within an intensively sampled low elevation flowpath at one site, sediment deposition during individual incubations stimulated mineralization of N and P. However, the amount of N and P mineralized in soil was substantially less than the amount deposited with sedimentation. In summary, greater inputs of nutrients and water and storage of soil nutrients along gradients of riverfloodplain hydrologic connectivity increased floodplain soil nutrient mineralization rates.
41507785|To examine the influence of landscape characteristics and landscape position on aquatic biogeochemistry, we sampled a total of 76 lakes within 14 different lake-chains spanning the latitudinal extent of the high-elevation Sierra Nevada (California). We measured water chemistry, dissolved organic matter (DOM), nutrients, and biotic variables in study catchments that encompassed representative ranges of area (3-22 km), elevation (2,200-3,700 m.a.s.l), elevation change (50-700 m), and average slope (13-26). Hierarchical models were used to account for variability in biogeochemistry because they explicitly maintain the framework of lakes within individual lake-chains while accounting for variation among lake-chains. Unconditional means models, where lake-chain was a random effect, revealed significant differences among lake-chains for nearly all biogeochemical variables. Models explained 42-95% of this variability, with the majority of the variation (70%) explained by the among lake-chain component. To explore the amount of additional variation explained by lake landscape position, we added lake network number (LNN) to models. LNN explained a significant amount of additional variation (7% average) in 8 of 23 biogeochemical parameters. However, it explained more variability within individual lake-chains (75%), where among lake-chain differences did not obscure patterns. Patterns of increase with LNN were found for dissolved organic carbon and nitrogen, fluorescence of DOM, alkalinity, and bacterioplankton abundance, whereas nitrate and nitrogen to phosphorus nutrient ratios decreased. LNN explained variation because it served as a proxy for underlying catchment characteristics that changed consistently along downstream flow paths. To characterize the amount of variation explained by catchment characteristics alone, we fit a third model that included lake-chain as a random effect and landscape or lake morphometry attributes as fixed effects. Catchment characteristics explained about as much additional variation (6%) as LNN, but for substantially more biogeochemical parameters (18 out of 23). The catchment characteristics most predictive of biogeochemistry were land-cover factors delineating alpine and subalpine zones (elevation, slope, or proportions of rock or shrub cover). In general, catchment characteristics were stronger predictors of biogeochemistry than characteristics of lake morphometry, emphasizing the relative importance of landscape processes in snowmelt-dominated lake ecosystems.
23501497|Upland humid tropical forest soils are often characterized by fluctuating redox dynamics that vary temporally and spatially across the landscape. An increase in the frequency and intensity of rainfall events with climate change is likely to affect soil redox reactions that control the production and emissions of greenhouse gases. We used a 24-day rainfall manipulation experiment to evaluate temporal and spatial trends of surface soil (020 cm) redox-active chemical species and greenhouse gas fluxes in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. Treatments consisted of a high rainfall simulation (60 mm day -1 ), a fluctuating rainfall regime, and a control. Water addition generated high temporal and spatial variation in soil moisture (0.30.6 m 3 m -3 ), but had no significant effect on soil oxygen (O 2 ) concentrations. Extractable nitrate (NO 3 - ) concentrations decreased with daily water additions and reduced iron (Fe(II)) concentrations increased towards the end of the experiment. Overall, redox indicators displayed a weak, non-deterministic, nonlinear relationship with soil moisture. High concentrations of Fe(II) and manganese (Mn) were present even where moisture was relatively low, and net Mn reduction occurred in all plots including controls. Mean CO 2 fluxes were best explained by soil C concentrations and a composite redox indicator, and not water addition. Several plots were CH 4 sources irrespective of water addition, whereas other plots oscillated between weak CH 4 sources and sinks. Fluxes of N 2 O were highest in control plots and were consistently low in water-addition plots. Together, these data suggest (1) a relative decoupling between soil moisture and redox processes at our spatial and temporal scales of measurement, (2) the co-occurrence of aerobic and anaerobic biogeochemical processes in well-drained surface soils, and (3) an absence of threshold effects from sustained precipitation on redox reactions over the scale of weeks. Our data suggest a need to re-evaluate representations of moisture in biogeochemical models.
40296285|Agroecosystem health derives from a combination of biophysical and socioeconomic conditions that jointly influence such properties as productivity, sustainability, stability, and equitability. In this case study, we describe and analyze a method to quantify agroecosystem health through a combination of geographically referenced data at various spatial scales. Six key variables were hypothesized to provide a minimum set of conditions required to quantify agroecosystem health: soil health, biodiversity, topography, farm economics, land economics, and social organization. Each of these key variables was quantified by one or more attributes of a study area near Wooster, Ohio. Data sources included remote sensing, digital elevation models, soil maps, county auditor records, and a structured questionnaire of landowners in the study area. These data were combined by an analytical hierarchy process to yield an agroecosystem health index. The two steps in the process were first to combine the data at the pixel scale (30 m) into key variables with normalized values, and then to combine the key variables into the final index. The analytical hierarchy process model was developed by panels of experts for each key variable and by participants in the Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center's Agroecosystems Management Program for the final agroecosystem health index value. Observed spatial patterns of the agroecosystem health index were then analyzed with respect to the underlying data. Consistent with our hypothesis and the definition of agroecosystems, spatial patterns in the agroecosystem health index were an emergent property of combined socioeconomic and biophysical conditions not apparent in any of the underlying data or key variables. The method proposed in this study permits estimation of agroecosystem health as a function of specific underlying conditions, which combine in complex ways. Because values of the agroecosystem health index and the data underlying them can be analyzed for a particular landscape, the method proposed could be useful to policy makers, educators, service agencies, organizations, and the people who live in the area for finding opportunities to improve the health of their agroecosystem.
3658635|Soil texture plays a key role in belowground C storage in forest ecosystems and strongly influences nutrient availability and retention, particularly in highly weathered soils. We used field data and the Century ecosystem model to explore the role of soil texture in belowground C storage, nutrient pool sizes, and N fluxes in highly weathered soils in an Amazonian forest ecosystem. Our field results showed that sandy soils stored approximately 113 Mg
3658679|Studies of complex systems in other disciplines provide models and analytical strategies for understanding ecosystems and landscapes. The emphasis is on invariant properties, particularly processes that create scaling relations over wide ranges of scale, both in time and space. Translations between levels of ecological organization may be accomplished by succinct characterizations of processes that operate at fine scales, followed by renormalization group analysis to reveal patterns at broad scales. The self-organized patterns found in simple ecosystem, landscape, and forest-fire models may be explained as feedback between the system state and control parameters. Critical phenomena and phase transitions are expected in open, dissipative systems where long-range correlations defy predictions based on average population densities, a concept that becomes irrelevant as nonstationary conditions prevail. Thus, complexity theory for open systems relates to the ecology of self-entailing ecosystems that function as their own environments and thereby create constraints through emergence.
3658851| I used measures of
25470426|The US Environmental Protection Agency established the Adirondack Effects Assessment Program (AEAP) to evaluate and monitor the status of biological communities in lakes in the Adirondack region of New York that have been adversely affected by acid deposition. This program includes chemical analysis of 30 lakes, sampled two to three times each summer. Results of trends analysis for lake chemistry and chlorophyll a (chlor a) are presented for 1994 to 2003, and a general comparison is made with recent results of the Adirondack Long-Term Monitoring (ALTM) Program, which included chemical analysis of all but two of these lakes (plus an additional 24 lakes) monthly, year-round for 1992-2004. Increases in pH were found in 25 of the 30 AEAP lakes (P < 0.05) and increases in acid-neutralizing capacity (ANC) were found in 12 of the 30 lakes (P < 0.05). Concentrations of both SO and Mg decreased in 11 lakes (P < 0.05), whereas concentrations of NO decreased in 20 lakes (P < 0.05). Concentrations of NH decreased in 10 lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and in three other lakes based on P < 0.1. Concentrations of inorganic and organic monomeric aluminum generally were below the reporting limit of 1.5 mol L, but decreases were detected in four and five lakes, respectively (P < 0.1). Concentrations of chlor a increased in seven lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and two lakes at a significance level of P < 0.1. A significant inverse correlation was also found between chlor a and NO concentrations in nine lakes at a significance level of P < 0.05 and two lakes at a significance level of P < 0.1. Results of AEAP analysis of lake chemistry were similar to those of the ALTM Program, although decreases in SO concentrations were more evident in the year-round ALTM record. Overall, the results suggest (a) a degree of chemical recovery from acidification during the summer, (b) an increase in phytoplankton productivity, and (c) a decreasing trend in NO concentrations resulting from the increased productivity.
40603431|Free air CO enrichment (FACE) experiments in aggrading temperate forests and plantations have been initiated to test whether temperate forest ecosystems act as sinks for anthropogenic emissions of CO. These FACE experiments have demonstrated increases in net primary production and carbon (C) storage in forest vegetation due to increased atmospheric CO concentrations. However, the fate of this extra biomass in the forest floor or mineral soil is less clear. After 6 years of FACE treatment in a short-rotation poplar plantation, we observed an additional sink of 32 g C m y in the forest floor. Mineral soil C content increased equally under ambient and increased CO treatment during the 6-year experiment. However, during the first half of the experiment the increase in soil C was suppressed under FACE due to a priming effect, that is, the additional labile C increased the mineralization of older SOM, whereas during the second half of the experiment the increase in soil C was larger under FACE. An additional sink of 54 g C m y in the top 10 cm of the mineral soil was created under FACE during the second half of the experiment. Although, this FACE effect was not significant due to a combination of soil spatial variability and the low number of replicates that are inherent to the present generation of forest stand FACE experiments. Physical fractionation by wet sieving revealed an increase in the C and nitrogen (N) content of macro-aggregates due to FACE. Further fractionation by density showed that FACE increased C and N contents of the light iPOM and mineral associated intra-macroaggregate fractions. Isolation of micro-aggregates from macro-aggregates and subsequent fractionation by density revealed that FACE increased C and N contents of the light iPOM, C content of the fine iPOM and C and N contents of the mineral associated intra-micro-aggregate fractions. From this we infer that the amount of stabilized C and N increased under FACE treatment. We compared our data with published results of other forest FACE experiments and infer that the type of vegetation and soil base saturation, as a proxy for bioturbation, are important factors related to the size of the additional C sinks of the forest floor-soil system under FACE.
40603644|Livestock are the major consumers of water but also sustain millions of pastoralist and farming families. In regions where water is a scarce commodity, such as the Nile basin, there is a need for strategies to improve livestock water productivity (LWP). This study seeks to contribute to this need through a better understanding of livestock water use and productivity within the Nile basin and how this varies across the basin. We developed a spatial framework combining dynamic models of digestion in ruminants, crop water requirements (CWRs), and animal drinking water requirements to estimate spatial distribution of livestock water requirements in different livestock production systems (LPSs). We compared this with livestock production and water availability estimates within the basin. The results show that in most areas LWP is less than 0.1 USD/m, with only few areas showing a LWP of 0.5 USD/m and higher. This is largely related to very low livestock meat and milk production on one hand and very variable, but, in general, low feed water productivity (fWP). Total water need for feed production was estimated to be roughly 94 billion m, which amounts to approximately 5% of the total annual rainfall (68 billion m or 3.6% of total annual rainfall when excluding water for residues). Differences in LWP between systems and regions are large, suggesting considerable scope for improvements. We discuss the main factors influencing observed patterns of LWP and livestock water use and how this information can be used for developing strategies for increasing the water productivity of agricultural systems at the basin level.
40296307|In annual grasslands that experience a mediterranean-type climate, the synchrony between plant senescence and peak solar radiation over summer results in high litter sun exposure. We examined the decomposition of both shaded and sun-exposed litter over summer and inferred the effects of photodegradation from changes in mass loss and litter chemistry. The carry-over effects of summer litter exposure on wet season decomposition were also assessed, and the attenuation of photodegradation with litter layer thickness was used to estimate the proportion of grass litter lignin susceptible to photodegradation under different treatments of a factorial global change experiment. Over summer, mass loss from grass and forb litter exposed to ambient sunlight ranged from 8% to 10%, whereas lignin decreased in grass litter by approximately 20%. After one year of decomposition, mass losses from grass leaves exposed to sunlight over summer were more than double the mass losses from summer-shaded leaves. When shade litter layer thickness was varied, mass losses over summer for all treatments were also approximately 8%; however, lignin decreased significantly only in the low shade treatments (0-64 g m of shade litter). Aboveground production of annual grasses nearly quadrupled in response to the combined effects of N addition, elevated atmospheric CO, increased precipitation and warming. The estimated proportion of grass litter lignin experiencing full photodegradation ranged from 100% under ambient conditions to 31-62% in plots receiving the combined global change treatments. These results reveal an important role of sun exposure over summer in accelerating litter decomposition in these grasslands and provide evidence that future changes in the quantity of litter deposition may modulate the influence of photodegradation integrated across the litter layer.
25053816|Fine root length production, biomass production, and turnover in forest floor and mineral soil (0-30 cm) layers were studied in relation to irrigated (I) and irrigated-fertilized (IL) treatments in a Norway spruce stand in northern Sweden over a 2-year period. Fine roots (<1 mm) of both spruce and understory vegetation were studied. Minirhizotrons were used to estimate fine root length production and turnover, and soil cores were used to estimate standing biomass. Turnover was estimated as both the inverse of root longevity (RTL) and the ratio of annual root length production to observed root length (RTR). RTR values of spruce roots in the forest floor in I and IL plots were 0.6 and 0.5
3658868|The chemical composition of stream and soil water collected from two first-order stream basins in the Turkey Lakes Watershed (TLW) during the spring melt periods of 1992-1996 was examined to determine the flowpaths of snowmelt to the stream channel. Soil water was intensively sampled from within the soil organic layers as well as above (shallow soil water) and within (deep soil water) a compact basal till. Stream SiO
3658636|Eutrophication is arguably the biggest pollution problem facing estuaries globally, with extensive consequences including anoxic and hypoxic waters, reduced fishery harvests, toxic algal blooms, and loss of biotic diversity. However, estuaries vary greatly in their susceptibility to eutrophication. The Hudson River estuary receives very high levels of nutrient inputs yet in the past has shown relatively low rates of phytoplankton productivity and is generally considered to be only moderately susceptible to eutrophication. Here, we show that eutrophication and primary production in the Hudson estuary can increase dramatically in response to climatic variation and lowered freshwater discharge from the watershed. During dry summer periods in 1995 and 1997, rates of primary production were substantially higher than those measured during the 1970s, when freshwater discharge tended to be high. In the Hudson, low freshwater discharge increases water residence times and stratification and deepens the photic zone, all of which (alone or in combination) could lead to the observed increase in primary production. Our data, along with the prediction of most climate change models that freshwater discharge will be lower in the future during the summer in the northeastern US, suggest that the Hudson will become more susceptible to eutrophication. Eutrophication in an estuary is a complex process, and climate change is likely to affect each estuary differently due to interactions with nutrient loadings and physical circulation. Hence, it is essential to consider the effects of climate change in the context of individual estuarine functioning to successfully manage eutrophication in the future.
23501301|Wood nitrogen isotope composition ( 15 N) provides a potential retrospective evaluation of ecosystem N status but refinement of this index is needed. We calibrated current wood  15 N of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), an ectomycorrhizal tree species, against a productivity gradient of contrasting coastal forests of southern Vancouver Island (Canada). We then examined historical  15 N via increment cores, and tested whether wood  15 N corresponded with climatic fluctuations. Extractable soil N ranged from 11 to 43 kg N ha -1 along the productivity gradient, and was characterized by a progressive replacement of N forms (amino acids, NH 4 + and NO 3 - ). Current wood  15 N was significantly less depleted (-5.0 to -2.6 ) with increasing productivity, although linear correlations were stronger with  15 N (the difference between wood and soil  15 N) to standardize the extent of isotopic fractionation by ectomycorrhizal fungi. An overall decline in wood  15 N of 0.9  over the years 19002009 was detected, but trends diverged widely among plots, including positive, negative and no trend with time. We did not detect significant correlations in detrended wood  15 N with mean annual temperature or precipitation. The contemporary patterns in stand productivity, soil N supply and wood  15 N were moderately strong, but interpreting historical patterns in  15 N was challenging because of potential variations in N uptake related to stand dynamics. The lack of wood  15 N correlations with climate may be partly due to methodological limitations, but might also reflect the relative stability in N supply due to the overriding constraints of soil organic matter quantity and quality.
3658860|Herbivore grazing is increasingly used as a management tool to prevent the dominance of vegetation by tall grasses or trees. In this report, a model is described that is used to analyze plant-herbivore interactions and their scaling up to landscape scale. The model can be used to predict effects of herbivory on vegetation development. The model is an ecosystem model including modules for carbon and nitrogen cycling through plants, soil organic matter, and atmosphere. Plants compete for light and nitrogen. An herbivory module is included that implements selective foraging by a herbivore in a spatially heterogeneous area. Simulations were done to analyze the effects of herbivore density on vegetation dynamics, to analyze the impact of soil fertility on maximum herbivore density, and to analyze effects of herbivore density on landscapes. Two important points come forward from the model. Maximum herbivore abundance shows a hump-shaped curve along a soil fertility gradient. At higher soil fertility, light competition becomes more important. Herbivory interferes with plant competition, giving the tall, less palatable species a competitive advantage and thereby reducing the food quality and availability and hence the carrying capacity of the area. At a landscape scale, herbivory leads to increased heterogeneity. This increased heterogeneity may increase carrying capacity. The implications of these points for nature management are discussed.
40296360|In many coastal locations, seagrass meadows are part of a greater seascape that includes both marine and terrestrial elements, each linked to the other via the foraging patterns of consumers (both predators and herbivores), and the passive drift of seagrass propagules, leaves, roots and rhizomes, and seagrass-associated macroalgal detritus. With seagrasses declining in many regions, the linkages between seagrass meadows and other habitats are being altered and diminished. Thus, it is timely to summarize what is known about the prevalence and magnitude of cross-habitat exchanges of seagrass-derived energy and materials, and to increase awareness of the importance of seagrasses to adjacent and even distant habitats. To do so we examined the literature on the extent and importance of exchanges of biomass between seagrass meadows and other habitats, both in the form of exported seagrass biomass as well as transfers of animal biomass via migration. Data were most abundant for Caribbean coral reefs and Australian beaches, and organisms for which there were quantitative estimates included Caribbean fishes and North American migratory waterfowl. Overall, data from the studies we reviewed clearly showed that seagrass ecosystems provide a large subsidy to both near and distant locations through the export of particulate organic matter and living plant and animal biomass. The consequences of continuing seagrass decline thus extend far beyond the areas where seagrasses grow.
27823660|The non-native rusty crayfish (Orconectes rusticus) has invaded many lakes of northern Wisconsin, profoundly changing littoral zones in the process. There are other lakes that have been invaded, but do not exhibit these changes. We hypothesized that endogenous feedbacks could form involving rusty crayfish, the macrophytes they destroy, and Lepomis species whose abundance is positively related to macrophyte abundance and also consume juvenile crayfish. We assessed this proposal with long-term data from one lake, a regional comparative study, and a case study of Lepomis predation on crayfish. Through time and across lakes, abundances of rusty crayfish, littoral macrophytes and species of the genus Lepomis were related in a fashion that indicated a set of feedbacks that regulate the abundance of all three. Intense predation on juvenile crayfish by abundant Lepomis is capable of maintaining some crayfish populations at low abundance. Thus, some lakes display profound ecological changes where crayfish achieve high abundance, and others sustain crayfish at low abundance. Consequently, lakes invaded by rusty crayfish may take on the appearance of alternative ecological regimes. Direct experimentation is necessary to determine if, and under what conditions, a lake can exist in either regime.
25470353|Organic carbon (C) in lakes originates from two distinct sources-primary production from within the lake itself (autochthonous supply) and importation of organic matter from the terrestrial watershed (allochthonous supply). By manipulating the C of dissolved inorganic C, thereby labeling within-lake primary production, we examined the relative importance of autochthonous and allochthonous C in supporting bacterial production. For 35 days, NaHCO was added daily to two small, forested lakes. One of the lakes (Peter) was fertilized so that primary production exceeded total respiration in the epilimnion. The other lake (Tuesday), in contrast, was low in productivity and had high levels of colored dissolved organic C (DOC). To obtain bacterial C isotopes, bacteria were regrown in situ in particle-free lake water in dialysis tubes. The contribution of allochthonous C to bacterial biomass was calculated by applying a two-member mixing model. In the absence of a direct measurement, the isotopic signature of the autochthonous end-member was estimated indirectly by three different approaches. Although there was excess primary production in Peter Lake, bacterial biomass consisted of 43-46% allochthonous C. In Tuesday Lake more than 75% of bacterial growth was supported by allochthonous C. Although bacteria used autochthonous C preferentially over allochthonous C, DOC from the watershed contributed significantly to bacterial production. In combination with results from similar experiments in different lakes, our findings suggest that the contribution of allochthonous C to bacterial production can be predicted from ratios of chromophoric dissolved organic matter (a surrogate for allochthonous supply) and chlorophyll a (a surrogate for autochthonous supply).
23501447|Human activities are rapidly changing ecosystems, landscapes and ecosystem service provision, yet there remain significant gaps in our understanding of the spatial ecology of ecosystem services. These gaps hinder our ability to manage landscapes effectively for multiple ecosystem services. In particular, we do not fully understand how changes in landscape connectivity affect ecosystem service provision, despite theory suggesting that connectivity is important. Here, we perform a semi-quantitative review of the literature that investigates how landscape connectivity affects the provision of specific ecosystem services. The vast majority of studies, including reviews, models, and field studies, suggest that decreased connectivity will have negative effects on ecosystem service provision. However, only 15 studies provided empirical evidence of these effects. Average effect sizes from these 15 studies suggest negative effects of connectivity loss on pollination and pest regulation. We identify a number of significant gaps in the connectivity-ecosystem services literature, including: a lack of multiple service studies, which precludes identification of tradeoffs between services as connectivity changes; few studies that directly measure organism movement and its effects on ecosystem services; and few empirical studies that investigate the importance of abiotic flows on service provision. We propose that future research should aim to understand how different aspects of connectivity affect ecosystem service provision; which services are most influenced by connectivity; and how connectivity influences how humans access and benefit from ecosystem services. Studies that answer these questions will advance our understanding of connectivity-ecosystem service provision relationships and allow for better ecosystem and landscape management and restoration.
23501305|Fire is a globally important ecosystem process, and invasive grass species generally increase fire spread by increasing the fuel load and continuity of native grassland fuelbeds. We suggest that invasive grasses that are photosynthetically active, while the native plant community is dormant reduce fire spread by introducing high-moisture, live vegetation gaps in the fuelbed. We describe the invasion pattern of a high-moisture, coolseason grass, tall fescue (Schedonorus phoenix (Scop.) Holub), in tallgrass prairie, and use spatially explicit fire behavior models to simulate fire spread under several combinations of fuel load, invasion, and fire weather scenarios. Reduced fuel load and increased extent of tall fescue invasion reduced fire spread, but high wind speed and low relative humidity can partially mitigate these effects. We attribute reduced fire spread to asynchrony in the growing seasons of the exotic, coolseason grass, tall fescue, and the native, warmseason tallgrass prairie community in this model system. Reduced fire spread under low fuel load scenarios indicate that fuel load is an important factor in fire spread, especially in invaded fuel beds. These results present a novel connection between fire behavior and asynchronous phenology between invasive grasses and native plant communities in pyrogenic ecosystems.
40296352|The emerging spatial scale of interest for fluvial ecosystem studies and applications is the river basin. Although much focus has been directed toward habitat availability and nutrient cycling across the fluvial landscape, light availability has received considerably less attention and has not been assessed quantitatively at the basin-scale despite it being the primary energy source for aquatic ecosystems. We developed a basin-scale light availability model that couples readily available broad spatial data with easily measured synoptic data using a GIS framework and the principles of hydraulic geometry. We used this model to (i) quantify benthic light availability
3658743| Climate change may affect ecosystem functioning through increased temperatures or changes in precipitation patterns. Temperature and water availability are important drivers for ecosystem processes such as photosynthesis, carbon translocation, and organic matter decomposition. These climate changes may affect the supply of carbon and energy to the soil microbial population and subsequently alter decomposition and mineralization, important ecosystem processes in carbon and nutrient cycling. In this study, carried out within the cross-European research project CLIMOOR, the effect of climate change, resulting from imposed manipulations, on carbon dynamics in shrubland ecosystems was examined. We performed a
41505942|Patterns of mangrove vegetation in two distinct basins of Florida Coastal Everglades (FCE), Shark River estuary and Taylor River Slough, represent unique opportunities to test hypotheses that root dynamics respond to gradients of resources, regulators, and hydroperiod. We propose that soil total phosphorus (P) gradients in these two coastal basins of FCE cause specific patterns in belowground biomass allocation and net primary productivity that facilitate nutrient acquisition, but also minimize stress from regulators and hydroperiod in flooded soil conditions. Shark River basin has higher P and tidal hydrology with riverine mangroves, in contrast to scrub mangroves of Taylor basin with more permanent flooding and lower P across the coastal landscape. Belowground biomass (0-90 cm) of mangrove sites in Shark River and Taylor River basins ranged from 2317 to 4673 g m, with the highest contribution (62-85%) of roots in the shallow root zone (0-45 cm) compared to the deeper root zone (45-90 cm). Total root productivity did not vary significantly among sites and ranged from 407 to 643 g m y. Root production in the shallow root zone accounted for 57-78% of total production. Root turnover rates ranged from 0.04 to 0.60 y and consistently decreased as the root size class distribution increased from fine to coarse roots, indicating differences in root longevity. Fine root biomass was negatively correlated with soil P density and frequency of inundation, whereas fine root turnover decreased with increasing soil N:P ratios. Lower P availability in Taylor River basin relative to Shark River basin, along with higher regulator and hydroperiod stress, confirms our hypothesis that interactions of stress from resource limitation and long duration of hydroperiod account for higher fine root biomass along with lower fine root production and turnover. Because fine root production and organic matter accumulation are the primary processes controlling soil formation and accretion in scrub mangrove forests, root dynamics in the P-limited carbonate ecosystem of south Florida have a major controlling role as to how mangroves respond to future impacts of sealevel rise.
3658811|In the coming decades, a large fraction of the world's tropical forests will be fragmented into remnants surrounded by secondary vegetation, land-use areas, or roads. It is important to develop integrative tools to monitor the evolution of these fragmented ecosystems. We used the individual-oriented and process-based forest growth simulator Formind2.0 to investigate the spatial and temporal effects on standing biomass and functional diversity of various intensities and patterns of fragmentation within a forest landscape. The simulator was calibrated for an old-growth wet forest in French Guiana, South America. We found that the standing biomass of forest remnants was reduced significantly compared to a similar area of nonfragmented forest. When fewer but larger remnants were created rather than many small ones, the total loss in biomass and the increase in the abundance of early-successional species were significantly reduced, confirming that edge effects dominate the functioning of forest remnants. We also performed simulations of secondary succession after the landscape had been abandoned. The simulated recovery time in those secondary forests depends on both the size of cleared area and the spatial pattern of the remnant forests.
40928225|Wetlands are known to be important sources of dissolved organic matter (DOM) to rivers and coastal environments. However, the environmental dynamics of DOM within wetlands have not been well documented on large spatial scales. To better assess DOM dynamics within large wetlands, we determined high resolution spatial distributions of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) concentrations and DOM quality by excitation-emission matrix spectroscopy combined with parallel factor analysis (EEM-PARAFAC) in a subtropical freshwater wet-land, the Everglades, Florida, USA. DOC concentrations decreased from north to south along the general water flow path and were linearly correlated with chloride concentration, a tracer of water derived from the Everglades Agricultural Area (EAA), suggesting that agricultural activities are directly or indirectly a major source of DOM in the Everglades. The optical properties of DOM, however, also changed successively along the water flow path from high molecular weight, peat-soil and highly oxidized agricultural soil-derived DOM to the north, to lower molecular weight, biologically produced DOM to the south. These results suggest that even though DOC concentration seems to be distributed conservatively, DOM sources and diagenetic processing can be dynamic throughout wetland landscapes. As such, EEM-PARAFAC clearly revealed that humic-enriched DOM from the EAA is gradually replaced by microbial- and plant-derived DOM along the general water flow path, while additional humic-like contributions are added from marsh soils. Results presented here indicate that both hydrology and primary productivity are important drivers controlling DOM dynamics in large wetlands. The biogeochemical processes controlling the DOM composition are complex and merit further investigation.
25053822|As defined by Ascher, biocomplexity results from a "multiplicity of interconnected relationships and levels." However, no integrative framework yet exists to facilitate the application of this concept to coupled human-natural systems. Indeed, the term "biocomplexity" is still used primarily as a creative and provocative metaphor. To help advance its utility, we present a framework that focuses on linkages among different disciplines that are often used in studies of coupled human-natural systems, including the ecological, physical, and socioeconomic sciences. The framework consists of three dimensions of complexity: spatial, organizational, and temporal. Spatial complexity increases as the focus changes from the type and number of the elements of spatial heterogeneity to an explicit configuration of the elements. Similarly, organizational complexity increases as the focus shifts from unconnected units to connectivity among functional units. Finally, temporal complexity increases as the current state of a system comes to rely more and more on past states, and therefore to reflect echoes, legacies, and evolving indirect effects of those states. This three-dimensional, conceptual volume of biocomplexity enables connections between models that derive from different disciplines to be drawn at an appropriate level of complexity for integration.
40928215|Future climate scenarios predict simultaneous changes in environmental conditions, but the impacts of multiple climate change drivers on ecosystem structure and function remain unclear. We used a novel experimental approach to examine the responses of an upland grassland ecosystem to the 2080 climate scenario predicted for the study area (3.5C temperature increase, 20% reduction in summer precipitation, atmospheric CO levels of 600 ppm) over three growing seasons. We also assessed whether patterns of grassland response to a combination of climate change treatments could be forecast by ecosystem responses to single climate change drivers. Effects of climate change on aboveground production showed considerable seasonal and interannual variation; April biomass increased in response to both warming and the simultaneous application of warming, summer drought, and CO enrichment, whereas October biomass responses were either non-significant or negative depending on the year. Negative impacts of summer drought on production were only observed in combination with a below-average rainfall regime, and showed lagged effects on spring biomass. Elevated CO had no significant effect on aboveground biomass during this study. Both warming and the 2080 climate change scenario were associated with a significant advance in flowering time for the dominant grass species studied. However, flowering phenology showed no significant response to either summer drought or elevated CO. Species diversity and equitability showed no response to climate change treatments throughout this study. Overall, our data suggest that single-factor warming experiments may provide valuable information for projections of future ecosystem changes in cool temperate grasslands.
40603635|Shifts between alternative stable states have become a focus of research in temperate shallow lakes. Here we show that sharp transitions between a clear, macrophyte-dominated state and a turbid state without submerged plants can also occur in tropical floodplain lakes, albeit driven by a largely different set of mechanisms. We show how a shallow lake in the Pantanal becomes covered by an exploding population of the submerged macrophyte Egeria najas Planchn as the water level rises during the annual high-water period. Water clarity increases spectacularly in this period due to flushing with river water that has lost most of its suspended matter during its slow flow over the flooded vegetated plains. A few months later when the water level drops again, the submerged plant beds die and decompose rapidly, triggering a phase of increasing turbidity. During this period an increase in dissolved organic matter, suspended matter, and phytoplankton biomass results in a sharp deterioration in water clarity. The concomitant water level decrease largely counteracts the effects on the underwater light climate, so that the amount of light at the bottom may not differ in comparison with the high-water period. Therefore, changes in light climate seem unlikely to be the sole driver of the vegetation shifts, and other mechanisms may prevent recovery of the submerged vegetation until the next high-water episode.Also, contrary to what is found in temperate lakes, there is no evidence for top-down control of phytoplankton biomass associated with the macrophyte-dominated state in our tropical lake.
43677510|Global wildfire frequency and extent are expected to increase under projected climate change in the twenty-first century, yet little is known about how human activities might affect this trend. In central Mongolia, there has been a 2.5C rise in spring and summer temperatures during the last 40 years and a decrease in moisture availability during the latter half of the twentieth century. Concurrently, Mongolia has experienced multiple shifts in socioeconomic systems during the twentieth century, most notably the establishment of a Soviet-backed communist economy in the 1920s and a rapid transition to privatization in the 1990s. Observed records of fire in the late twentieth century suggested that fire activity had increased, but no longterm data existed to place these trends in a historical context. Our objective was to identify spatial and temporal patterns in fire occurrence in the forest-steppe ecotone of the Tuul River watershed in the context of changing climatic and social conditions since 1875. We used fire-scarred trees to reconstruct past fire occurrence during the period 1875-2009. Our results indicate a significant association between human activity and fire occurrence independent of climatic variables. The greatest evidence for an anthropogenic fire regime exists following the transition to a free market economy during the early 1990s when land-use intensification near the capital city of Ulaanbaatar resulted in fire exclusion. We emphasize the importance of including socio-political variables in global models of wildfire potential, particularly where fuels limit fire activity.
23501481|In the region northeast of Wawa, Ontario (Canada), many circumneutral lakes downwind of a nearby iron-sintering plant were strongly acidified (pH 34) in response to the emissions of large amounts of sulfur dioxide from 19391998. Following closure of the plant in 1998, lakewater pH has returned to circumneutral conditions due to the high buffering capacity of the local geological substrate. Prior paleolimnological analyses of dated sediment cores have detected some biological recovery among algal communities (diatoms and chrysophytes), although they have not returned to their pre-impact assemblages. Here we take a broader ecosystem approach, and build upon the algal analyses by examining cladoceran sedimentary assemblages, and spectrally-inferred chlorophyll a and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) from the same dated sediment cores. Similar to the algal communities, recent cladoceran sedimentary assemblages from three impacted lakes remain in an altered state relative to the pre-impact period (for example, increased relative abundances of Chydorus brevilabris and reduced cladoceran density in sediments). However, trends in the spectrally-inferred chlorophyll a and DOC were mixed, with long-term decreases in the study lake closest to the plant and long-term increases within the other lakes. Collectively, the multi-proxy paleolimnological analyses of these markedly acidified lakes demonstrate the delayed biological recovery from acidification (and differences in timing) across multiple trophic levels, despite the near-elimination of acid deposition almost a decade previously, which led to a striking recovery in lakewater pH and increased food availability.
41413964|Soil nitrogen (N) availability and pH constitute major abiotic controls over microbial community composition and activity in tundra ecosystems. On the other hand, mammalian grazers form an important biotic factor influencing resource coupling between plants and soil microorganisms. To investigate individual effects and interactions among soil nutrients, pH, and grazing on tundra soils, we performed factorial treatments of fertilization, liming, and grazer exclusion in the field for 3 years at 2 contrasting tundra habitats, acidic (N-poor) and non-acidic (N-rich) tundra heaths. The effects of all treatments were small in the nonacidic tundra heaths. In the acidic tundra heaths, fertilization decreased the fungal: bacterial ratio as analyzed by soil PLFAs, but there were no effects of liming. Fertilization increased soil N concentrations more drastically in ungrazed than grazed plots, and in parallel, fertilization decreased the fungal:bacterial ratio to a greater extent in the ungrazed plots. Liming, on the other hand, partly negated the effects of fertilization on both soil N concentrations and PLFAs. Fertilization drastically increased the activity of phenol oxidase, a microbial enzyme synthesized for degradation of soil phenols, in grazed plots, but had no effect in ungrazed plots. Taken together, our results demonstrate that grazers have the potential to regulate the fungal:bacterial ratio in soils through influencing N availability for the soil microorganisms.
25470380|Nutrient cycling and energy flow in ecosystems are tightly linked through the metabolic processes of organisms. Greater uptake of inorganic nutrients is expected to be associated with higher rates of metabolism [gross primary production (GPP) and respiration (R)], due to assimilatory demand of both autotrophs and heterotrophs. However, relationships between uptake and metabolism should vary with the relative contribution of autochthonous and allochthonous sources of organic matter. To investigate the relationship between metabolism and nutrient uptake, we used whole-stream and benthic chamber methods to measure rates of nitrate-nitrogen (NO-N) uptake and metabolism in four headwater streams chosen to span a range of light availability and therefore differing rates of GPP and contributions of autochthonous carbon. We coupled whole-stream metabolism with measures of NO-N uptake conducted repeatedly over the same stream reach during both day and night, as well as incubating benthic sediments under both light and dark conditions. NO-N uptake was generally greater in daylight compared to dark conditions, and although day-night differences in whole-stream uptake were not significant, light-dark differences in benthic chambers were significant at three of the four sites. Estimates of N demand indicated that assimilation by photoautotrophs could account for the majority of NO-N uptake at the two sites with relatively open canopies. Contrary to expectations, photo-autotrophs contributed substantially to NO-N uptake even at the two closed-canopy sites, which had low values of GPP/R and relied heavily on allochthonous carbon to fuel R.
3659028|Vegetation growth characteristics influence ecosystem biogeochemistry and must be incorporated in models used to project biogeochemical responses to climate variations. We used a multiple-element limitation model (MEL) to examine how variations in nutrient use efficiency (NUE) and net primary production to biomass ratio (nPBR) affect changes in ecosystem C stocks after an increase in temperature and atmospheric CO
3658989|We report a multiscale study in the Wind River Valley in southwestern Washington, where we quantified leaf to stand scale variation in spectral reflectance for dominant species. Four remotely sensed structural measures, the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), cover fractions from spectral mixture analysis (SMA), equivalent water thickness (EWT), and albedo were investigated using Airborne Visible Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (AVIRIS) data. Discrimination of plant species varied with wavelength and scale, with deciduous species showing greater separability than conifers. Contrary to expectations, plant species were most distinct at the branch scale and least distinct at the stand scale. At the stand scale, broadleaf and conifer species were spectrally distinct, as were most conifer age classes. Intermediate separability occurred at the leaf scale. Reflectance decreased from leaf to stand scales except in the broadleaf species, which peaked in near-infrared reflectance at the branch scale. Important biochemical signatures became more pronounced spectrally progressing from leaf to stand scales. Recent regenerated clear-cuts (less than 10 years old) had the highest albedo and nonphotosynthetic vegetation (NPV). After 50 years, the stands showed significant decreases in albedo, NPV, and EWT and increases in shade. Albedo was lowest in old-growth forests. Peak EWT, a proxy measure for leaf area index (LAI), was observed in 11 - to 30-year-old stands. When compared to LAI, EWT and NDVI showed exponentially decreasing, but distinctly different, relationships with increasing LAI. This difference is biologically important: at 95% of the maximum predicted NDVI and EWT, LAI was 5.17 and 9.08, respectively. Although these results confirm the stand structural variation expected with forest succession, remote-sensing images also provide a spatial context and establish a basis to evaluate variance within and between age classes. Landscape heterogeneity can thus be characterized over large areas-a critical and important step in scaling fluxes from stand-based towers to larger scales.
3659072|Causes and implications of spatial variability in postfire tree density and understory plant cover for patterns of aboveground net primary production (ANPP) and leaf area index (LAI) were examined in ninety 11-year-old lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta var. latifolia Engelm.) stands across the landscape of Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming, USA. Field studies and aerial photography were used to address three questions: (1) What is the range and spatial pattern of lodgepole pine sapling density across the burned Yellowstone landscape and what factors best explain this variability? (2) How do ANPP and LAI vary across the landscape and is their variation explained by abiotic factors, sapling density, or both? (3) What is the predicted spatial pattern of ANPP and LAI across the burned Yellowstone landscape? Stand density spanned six orders of magnitude, ranging from zero to 535,000 saplings ha
43677497|Global warming and land-use change could have profound impacts on ecosystem carbon (C) fluxes, with consequent changes in C sequestration and its feedback to climate change. However, it is not well understood how net ecosystem C exchange (NEE) and its components respond to warming and mowing in tallgrass prairie. We conducted two warming experiments, one long term with a 1.7C increase in a C-dominated grassland (Experiment 1), and one short term with a 2.8C increase in a C-dominated grassland (Experiment 2), to investigate main and interactive effects of warming and clipping on ecosystem C fluxes in the Great Plains of North America during 2009-2011. An infrared radiator was used to simulate climate warming and clipping once a year mimicked mowing in both experiments. The results showed that warming significantly increased ecosystem respiration (ER), slightly increased GPP, with the net outcome (NEE) being little changed in Experiment 1. In contrast, warming significantly suppressed GPP and ER in both years, with the net outcome being enhanced in NEE (more C sequestration) in 2009-2010 in Experiment 2. The C-dominated grassland showed a much higher optimum temperature for C fluxes than the C-dominated grassland, which may partly contribute to the different warming effects in the two experiments. Clipping significantly enhanced GPP, ER, and NEE in both experiments but did not significantly interact with warming in impacting fluxes in either experiment. The warming-induced changes in ecosystem C fluxes correlated significantly with C biomass proportion but not with warming-induced changes in either soil temperature or soil moisture across the plots in the experiments. Our results demonstrate that carbon fluxes in the tallgrass prairie are highly sensitive to climate warming and clipping, and C/C plant functional types may be important factor in determining ecosystem response to climate change.
3658653|Variations in plant community composition across the landscape can influence nutrient retention and loss at the watershed scale. A striking example of plant species importance is the influence of N
25470359|Declining biodiversity in agro-ecosystems, caused by intensification of production or expansion of monocultures, is associated with the emergence of agricultural pests. Understanding how land-use and management control crop-associated biodiversity is, therefore, one of the key steps towards the prediction and maintenance of natural pest-control. Here we report on relationships between land-use variables and arthropod community attributes (for example, species diversity, abundance and guild structure) across a diversification gradient in a rice-dominated landscape in the Mekong delta, Vietnam. We show that rice habitats contained the most diverse arthropod communities, compared with other uncultivated and cultivated land-use types. In addition, arthropod species density and Simpson's diversity in flower, vegetable and fruit habitats was positively related to rice cover in the local landscape. However, across the landscape as a whole, reduction in heterogeneity and the amount of uncultivated cover was associated, generally, with a loss of diversity. Furthermore, arthropod species density in tillering and flowering stages of rice was positively related to crop and vegetation richness, respectively, in the local landscape. Differential effects on feeding guilds were also observed in rice-associated communities with the proportional abundance of predators increasing and the proportional abundance of detritivores decreasing with increased landscape rice cover. Thus, we identify a range of rather complex, sometimes contradictory patterns concerning the impact of rice cover and landscape heterogeneity on arthropod community attributes. Importantly, we conclude that that land-use change associated with expansion of monoculture rice need not automatically impact diversity and functioning of the arthropod community.
3658785| In this study, we take an ecosystem approach to examine the degree of biological self-organization at the ecosystem level. An integrated set of indicators is derived from a theoretical framework and tested by field data from an ecosystem research project focusing on the Bornhved Lake district in northern Germany. This field test is based on a comparison of the self-organized phenomena that comprise the carbon, water, and energy budgets of two adjacent edaphically and climatically similar ecosystems, that have vastly different levels of human interference-a crop field and a beech forest. In terms of biomass storage, biologically incorporated nitrogen and phosphorus, species number, total ecosystem respiration per total biomass
