10.1086/674982|Species delimitation (grouping individuals into distinct taxonomic groups) is an essential part of evolutionary, conservation, and molecular ecology. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcodes, short fragments of the cytochrome
10.1899/11-155.1|Rapid human population growth engenders landuse changes and alters nutrients, algal biomass (as chlorophyll
10.1086/675734|Recruitment from dormant stages in the benthos can provide a critically important inoculum for surface populations of phytoplankton, including bloom-forming cyanobacteria. For example, water-column populations of the large (13-mm diameter) colonial cyanobacterium
10.1086/684095|Wood is a key structural element in aquatic ecosystems. Wood provides habitat complexity, alters geomorphology, retains organic and inorganic material, promotes hyporheic flow, and acts as substrate for biofilms and invertebrates. Fire is an important disturbance promoting wood recruitment into inland waters, but most studies have focused on streams in western North America. Less is known about fire-derived wood dynamics on other continents or in lake environments. Here, we review fire effects on the recruitment, distribution, and function of in-stream wood, with emphasis on a series of studies from the Euro-Mediterranean. The amount of large wood in these streams was low and is expected to decline in the future because of wildfire. Wildfire engendered inputs of wood with low structural complexity, probably reducing habitat heterogeneity for aquatic organisms. Fire also provided wood with greater diameter than wood recruited by other means, but its longevity may be shorter because burned wood was more decayed and less anchored in the channel than unburned wood. Wood delivery processes are important because macroinvertebrate colonization differed between fire-derived wood that fell directly into the river and wood conditioned first on the forest floor. We present a case study describing wood dynamics in a lake after a wildfire in northern Minnesota, USA. In this study, wildfire created an area of lake shoreline with disproportionately more wood than areas unaffected by wildfire. In contrast to streams, burned wood was more complex than unburned wood in the lake system. One of the explanations may be greater scouring, abrasive action by stream flows, which breaks down burned wood faster than in lakes. Given the expected increase in the probability and severity of fire around the world, information in our review can be used to help manage riparian zones of streams and lakes.
10.1086/683121|We used a structured decision-making process to develop conservation strategies to increase persistence of Dwarf Wedgemussel (
10.1899/11-063.1|The Rio Grande supplies water for endangered biota and a burgeoning human population, but little is known about sources and cycling of nutrients through the food web of this dryland river ecosystem. We described aquatic foodweb structure at 4 sites in the Rio Grande (New Mexico, USA) based on analysis of stable isotopes of C and N as tracers of sources of primary production and trophic positions of consumers, respectively. 
10.1899/11-021.1|Midge larvae (
10.1086/677806|Selective feeding and differential nutrient excretion by aquatic invertebrates plays a substantial role in nutrient recycling. Grazing larvae of the caddisfly
10.1899/11-117.1|We measured nutrients and dissolved organic matter (DOM) in surface water and floodplain sediments to evaluate biogeochemical linkages between streams and floodplains in 3 streams of increasing size in a tropical catchment in northwestern Australia. We hypothesized that streamfloodplain biogeochemical connectivity, measured as similar DOM concentrations and spectroscopic properties of streamwater and floodplain sediment leachate, would decrease with increasing stream size. We expected decreasing connectivity to shift support of aquatic foodweb structure from mainly allochthonous C in small streams to algal C in larger streams. Streamwater and sediment leachate concentrations of NH
10.1086/678946|Confidence in any bioassessment method is related to its ability to detect ecological improvement or impairment. We evaluated Australian River Assessment (AUSRIVAS)-style predictive models built using reference-site data sets from the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), the Yukon Territory (YT; Canada), and the Laurentian Great Lakes (GL; North America) area. We evaluated model performance as ability to correctly assign reference condition with independent reference-site data. Evaluating model ability to detect human disturbance is generally more problematic because the actual condition of test sites is usually unknown. Independent reference-site data underwent simulated impairment by varying the proportions of sensitive, intermediate, and tolerant taxa to simulate degrees of eutrophication. Model performance was related to differences in data sets, such as number and distribution of invertebrate taxa. Sensitive taxa tended to have lower expected probabilities of occurrence than more-tolerant taxa, but the distribution of taxa grouped by tolerance categories also differed by data set. Thus, the models differed in ability to detect the simulated impairment. The ACT model performed best with respect to Type 1 error rates (0%) and the GL model the worst (38%). The YT model performed best (10% error) for detecting moderate impairment, and the ACT model detected all severely impaired sites. AUSRIVAS did not assign most mildly impaired sites to below-reference condition, but a reduction in observed/expected values for some of the mildly impaired sites was observed. Models did not detect mild impairment that simply changed taxon abundances because presenceabsence data were used for models. However, in comparison with other models described in this special issue (that did use abundance data), the AUSRIVAS model performance was comparable or better for detecting the simulated moderate and severe impairments.
10.1086/676657|The combination of changing climate and anthropogenic activities is increasing the probability of wildfire around the world. When fires occur in riparian zones, associated tree mortality can add wood directly to streams or wood may fall to the forest floor and remain there for some time before being transported into stream channels. Wood provides critical structure for aquatic macroinvertebrates, so our objectives were to assess the effects of wood burn status, conditioning, and their interaction on macroinvertebrate community composition, taxon and functional diversity, and trait affinities. We conducted a field experiment with pieces of freshly cut wood (length = 10 cm, diameter  7.5 cm) for which we first manipulated burn status (burned, unburned) and then, conditioned by placing burned and unburned wood directly into streams (no conditioning) or by leaving pieces in streams (water conditioning) or on the forest floor (soil conditioning) for a year before submergence. We used distance-based redundancy analysis to assess community structure by wood treatments and linear mixed-effects modeling to assess effects of wood treatments on taxon and functional diversity and trait affinity. Changes in wood quality resulting from fire may not alter macroinvertebrate community structure. Taxonomic and functional patterns of stream invertebrate colonization did not differ between burned and unburned wood, even after a year of incubation in the stream or on the forest floor. Conditioning status affected taxonomic composition, taxon and functional diversity, and trait affinities of wood invertebrate communities. The terrestrial legacy of soil conditioning was clearly important in structuring macroinvertebrate assemblages. Our results suggest that macroinvertebrate communities may be more sensitive to fire effects on the dynamics of wood input than to effects of fires on the wood itself.
10.1086/679655|Macropores are connected void spaces in the subsurface and can act as preferential flow paths for groundwater transport, but their dimensions and distribution patterns have not been well characterized in stream banks and hyporheic sediments. We ran field surveys in 5 streams of varying size, bed slope, and watershed land use in the Appalachian Mountains of southwestern Virginia. Natural surface-connected macropores were nearly ubiquitous. Macropores in this region arise by a variety of mechanisms, including soil piping, tree root decay, erosion around hardened structures, macroinvertebrate burrows, and invertebrate burrows. Macropore openings were slightly wider than tall, with median cross-sectional widths and heights of 3.5 cm and 3.0 cm, respectively. The median and maximum macropore lengths to first bend were 15.0 cm and 120.5 cm into the bank, respectively. True (tortuous) macropore lengths probably are often greater, and methods to map macropores are needed. Median interspacing of macropores across all streams was 0.38 m, but mean interspacing was 1.12 m, indicating that macropores were clustered in space. Macropores were inundated at different times because of differences in their heights on the stream bank, channel geometry, and stream stage. HEC-RAS modeling of channel hydraulics indicated that only 1 to 32% of macropores were inundated by channel water at base flow, whereas up to 97% were inundated during the largest storms. We ran conservative-tracer injection experiments at base flow in a 30-m reach of a small tributary to 1 study stream. We calculated transient-storage parameters for 2 treatments: 1 without macropores and 1 with artificially created macropores. Our results suggest that constructed macropores weakly increased transient storage (channel:storage zone cross-sectional area [A
10.1086/677038|Among terrestrial insects, there is a rich guild of specialized necrophagous taxa, i.e., that feed directly on carrion. These organisms constitute a significant functional component of terrestrial ecosystems, and have recently been extensively studied because of their importance in forensic entomology. Nothing similar exists in lotic environments, although paradoxically, insects are the most important group of invertebrates in streams and rivers, where they constitute up to 70 to 90% of benthic communities. We present some hypotheses as to why specialized necrophagous taxa have evolved among terrestrial, but not among aquatic insects. We suppose that the lack of specialized necrophagous aquatic insects was the result of many synergic evolutionary pressures, partly related to the distinctive physical features of lotic environments and partly to processes of competitive exclusion with other closely related arthropods.
10.1899/12-212.1|Taxonomic sufficiency (TS) has been proposed for assessing community composition and environmental impacts as a way to balance the need to indicate the biology of the organisms present with time and effort needed for species identification. TS has been applied most often to marine and freshwater macroinvertebrates, but tests of its usefulness are lacking for other freshwater groups. We analyzed the effects of taxonomic resolution, functional groupings, and data transformation on multivariate community patterns in periphyton, macrophytes, macroinvertebrates, and fishes, and on the quantification of biodiversity and environmental gradients. The applicability of TS differed strongly among taxonomic groups, depending on the average taxonomic breadth of the species sets. Numerical data resolution had more pronounced effects on community patterns than taxonomic resolution. Richness was strongly affected by data aggregation, but diversity indices were statistically reliable up to order level. Taxonomic aggregation had no significant influence on ability to detect environmental gradients. Functional surrogates based on biological traits, such as feeding type, reproductive strategy, and trophic state, were strongly correlated ( = 0.640.85) with taxonomic community composition. However, environmental correlations were generally lower with data aggregated to functional traits rather than to species. TS was universally applicable within taxonomic groups for different habitats in one biogeographic region. Aggregation to family or order was suitable for quantifying biodiversity and environmental gradients, but multivariate community analyses required finer resolution in fishes and macrophytes than in periphyton and macroinvertebrates. Sampling effort in environmental-impact studies and monitoring programs would be better invested in quantitative data and number of spatial and temporal replicates than in taxonomic detail.
10.1086/679738|Groundwatersurface-water (GW-SW) interactions in streams are difficult to quantify because of heterogeneity in hydraulic and reactive processes across a range of spatial and temporal scales. The challenge of quantifying these interactions has led to the development of several techniques, from centimeter-scale probes to whole-system tracers, including chemical, thermal, and electrical methods. We co-applied conservative and smart reactive solute-tracer tests, measurement of hydraulic heads, distributed temperature sensing, vertical profiles of solute tracer and temperature in the stream bed, and electrical resistivity imaging in a 450-m reach of a 3
10.1899/12-080.1|We compared biomass and community structure of macroinvertebrates among 3 flow zones (deep, rapid, flat) of riffles at 3 sites in a gravel-bed river. We evaluated bed stability in these zones with a 2-dimensional hydrodynamic simulation over a range of discharge levels. Deep zones had higher flow velocity and coarser bed materials than other zones. Rapid zones were shallower with higher flow velocity than flat zones. The probability of bed movement was greatest in rapid zones and was lowest in deep zones based on bed shear stress and the size of bed materials. Total macroinvertebrate biomass was dominated by filterer insects and was highest in deep zones and lowest in rapid zones across the sites. This trend was most conspicuous for taxa that build retreats on stones, such as net-spinning caddisflies, which have a sessile life form and prefer stable environments. The trend was less apparent for taxa that move freely on the bed, such as baetid and heptageniid mayflies. The macroinvertebrate community differed between the middle and peripheral areas at deep zones. Peripheral areas were dominated more by taxa that stay under stones. The channel bed topography in deep zones of riffles is likely to support high macroinvertebrate biomass by providing greater bed stability and higher water flow, the combination of which is relatively uncommon in gravel-bed rivers.
10.1899/12-181.1|C, N, and P content were measured across the ontogeny of lotic aquatic insects representing a diversity of life-history characteristics. The relationship between individual mass and nutrient content was used to show ontogenetic patterns of nutrient content by species. Species analyzed for C and N content exhibited a quasihomeostatic pattern across ontogeny. Percent C and %N varied among taxa irrespective of ontogeny, with %C ranging from 47.4 to 56.2% and %N ranging from 9.6 to 11.6%. P content also varied by species but declined nonlinearly across ontogeny and was best represented by a power function. Percent P varied from >7% in 1
10.1899/11-075.1|The US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) conducted a National Lakes Assessment (NLA) in the conterminous USA in 2007 as part of a national assessment of aquatic resources. The EPA used the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) as the basis for the sample frame for the NLA. The target population was all lakes >4ha, excluding the Laurentian Great Lakes and the Great Salt Lake. An unequal probability survey design was used to select 4472 candidate lakes for potential sampling. The unequal selection depended on 5 lake area classes and 9 aggregated Omernik level III ecoregions. In all, 2034 candidate lakes were evaluated for inclusion in the target population, and 1309 lakes (representing 68,000 lakes in the sample frame) met the criteria. A total of 1028 lakes (of 1309) were sampled and represented 50,000 lakes. The remaining lakes (231, representing 18,000 lakes) could not be sampled because of access denial or physical inaccessibility. The target population included natural (41  2% [SE]) and man-made lakes (59  2%). All target lakes in the Southern Appalachian region and >90% of the target population in the Southern Plains and Xeric regions were man-made. In the Upper Midwest region, 97  1% of the target population were natural lakes. Small lakes (410ha) made up 47  2% of the target population, and lakes >50ha made up 15% of the target population. The results raise 2 issues that have implications for current and future NLA projects: 1) the cost and effort required to identify lake features in the sample frame that do not meet the criteria for inclusion in the target population (50% in NLA 2007), and 2) the potential for biased estimates of the size and condition of the target population caused by lakes that cannot be sampled. Future NLA efforts involve refining the survey design to include smaller lakes and resampling lakes from previous NLAs. We offer approaches for addressing both issues, including use of a high-resolution version of NHD as the basis for developing the NLA sample frame. Developing a master sample frame of lakes would provide a consistent basis of lake numbers (or surface area) from which to estimate extent or assess ecological condition.
10.1899/11-019.1|Anthropogenic nutrient enrichment increases the supply ratio of N and P to aquatic ecosystems and can affect the identity of the limiting nutrient. Here we focus on how stream communities change along gradients of N and P supply and stream catchment landuse intensity. We used a survey approach in 41 southern New Zealand tributaries to investigate how much changes in water N and P concentrations are reflected in periphyton Cnutrient ratios (CN or CP) and how much food quality (high food quality corresponds to low periphyton Cnutrient) is reflected in the abundance and taxonomic richness of benthic invertebrate primary and secondary consumers. We measured streamwater nutrient state, periphyton nutrient ratios, biomass (as chlorophyll
10.1899/12-059.1|Investigations of predatorprey dynamics have largely focused on quantifying predation rates, yet achieving an appropriate sample to quantify predation is difficult when prey populations are small and individuals are rare. Moreover, quantifying rates of predation does not necessarily provide solutions for protecting threatened populations from predation. We used predator abundance and fine-scale predatorprey spatial overlap to identify trends in predation risk from cormorants,
10.1086/677898|Disentangling the influences of multiple environmental factors on ecosystem integrity is not straightforward because environmental factors may interact and biotic responses may be nonlinear. We aimed to understand better the relationships between freshwater invertebrate assemblages and multiple, interacting environmental factors. We analyzed stream monitoring data for 689 sampling sites in the state of Ohio (USA) with Boosted Regression Trees (BRTs). We used 16 environmental predictors covering geography, water chemistry, physical-habitat quality, and toxic pressure. We represented freshwater invertebrate assemblages by the Invertebrate Community Index (ICI) and its 10 component metrics. The ICI was mainly related to physical-habitat quality, nutrient concentrations (P and N), and pH. Responses of the ICI component metrics to physical-habitat quality and water-chemistry variables were similar and were associated with amplified importance of these predictors for the ICI, whereas heterogeneous responses of the component metrics to geographic variables appeared to cancel each other out at the level of the ICI. Models including predictor interactions explained 22 to 54% of the deviation in the biotic endpoints, whereas the no-interactions models explained 14 to 47%. The gain in predictive power was largest between the no- and the pairwise interaction models and decreased rapidly for each additional interaction level. We conclude that a focus on pairwise interactions is a good compromise between higher predictive power and interpretability of the results.
10.1086/674745|High flows are major disturbances in streams and cause benthic communities to vary temporally. Meltwater runoff in glacier-fed streams at temperatearctic latitudes primarily follows a strong seasonal pattern. In contrast, such streams at the equator show less seasonal, but more-pronounced diel variability in discharge that tracks a year-round diurnal meltingnocturnal freezing cycle of glaciers. Consequently, qualitative and quantitative differences in temporal variability of macrobenthos communities should be expected between high-latitude and tropical glacier-fed streams. We explored temporal variability in density, taxon richness, and community composition of benthic macroinvertebrates and analyzed community responses to flow events at 3 sites along a glacier-fed stream in equatorial Ecuador (0.05, 1.6, and 4.3 km from the glacier front). We obtained continuous flow recordings and sampled fauna at approximately quarterly intervals over 30 mo. Temporal variability in the fauna was aseasonal. However, the overall magnitude of the coefficient of variability (CV) at the 3 sites was not lower than the CV at temperate latitudes. The explanatory power of flow did not differ among discharge parameters 3, 6, 9, 21, and 45 d before sampling. The effect of flow (slopes of regressions of faunal metrics vs flow) did not differ among sites, but the amount of variation explained by flow was significant only at the 2 downstream sites. Little synchrony was found in variability among sites, possibly because of differences among sites in physical characteristics (e.g., refugia space), which moderated the effect of disturbances, and taxonomic composition of communities. Our study is the first to show a close link between hydrological and biological fluctuations in an equatorial glacier-fed stream, a prerequisite for subsequent predictions of consequences of tropical glacier melting on diversity, composition, and stability of stream communities.
10.1899/11-174.1|We analyzed the composition of spring fauna in relation to the mesoscale variability in environmental conditions in 77 permanent springs in a geologically homogenous area. We hypothesized that the species would occur in definite patterns reflecting the differences in factors that operate at the spring-level scale. We focused on the differences resulting from spring morphology, substrate composition, shading, and water chemistry. Our goal was to identify the abiotic variables that control the character of interspecies associations. The spring assemblages comprised species of 9 higher taxonomic groups (Plecoptera, Trichoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera, Turbellaria, Crustacea, Mollusca, Oligochaeta, Hydracarina). We used binomial regression successfully to construct single-species environmental models for several of the most abundant taxa. The most important factors explaining the species occurrence were hydromorphological and substrate characteristics. Results of nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination on species composition indicated 3 groups of springs. However, the analysis did not provide evidence for strong interspecies associations. Group 1 separated springs with running water, high substrate heterogeneity, and high taxonomic richness. Groups 2 and 3 included mostly helocrene-like springs differing in slope and substrate composition. The assemblages of these 2 groups comprised the same dominant species. However, the springs from group 3 had lower species abundances. Our study demonstrates the importance of mesoscale differences in habitat conditions for structuring the spring-associated benthic assemblages.
10.1899/12.157.1|Most freshwater zooplankton species produce dormant eggs or other long-lived resistant life stages to bridge periods that are unsuitable for growth and reproduction. One of the principal cues that determine activation of these dormant stages is light exposure. Contrary to the analogous process of seed germination in plants, relatively little is known about the mechanism of light activation and its potential adaptive value in freshwater zooplankton. We made use of a temporary pool model to investigate the hatching response of resting eggs of the fairy shrimp
10.1899/11.084.1|Habitat conditions and spring-associated limestones (SALs) formed by ambient precipitation with the biotic contribution of the desmid
10.1086/677198|The rapid range expansion of the toxigenic marine haptophytic alga
10.1899/11-173.1|Input, trapping, and retention of coarse particulate organic matter are among the key determinants of resource availability for consumers in forested headwater streams. Retention efficiency is regulated by the interaction between bed roughness and hydrological characteristics. We examined short-term retention of leaf analogs in artificial flumes, where we manipulated streambed structure and discharge using a factorial design. The substrate structures used are widely applied in stream restoration and represent a gradient of increasing bed complexity: channelized streams, channelized streams + moss, boulder additions, boulders + moss, addition of wood (low-wood and high-wood). We assessed whether, and by how much, the retentive efficiency of a stream is enhanced by various restoration structures and whether the effect of discharge on retention efficiency is similar in channelized and differently restored streams. All restoration structures enhanced leaf retention considerably, and even channelized streams containing mosses were highly retentive. At low discharge, channelized streams lacking mosses retained leaf litter less effectively than did the restored streams, whereas retention differed little among restoration treatments. At high discharge, most restoration structures were much less retentive, and differences in retentiveness between restored and channelized streams became insubstantial, except that streams with abundant wood remained highly retentive at all discharges. Our results suggest that all types of structures added to improve stream retentiveness may enhance leaf retention, and thereby contribute to organic matter dynamics of a stream, but the addition of wood of variable sizes is the best long-term solution to forested stream restoration.
10.1086/676915|Nonnative fishes have been linked to the decline of native fishes and may affect aquatic food webs through direct and indirect pathways. These concerns have led to efforts to remove nonnative Brown and Rainbow Trout, which are abundant in tributaries of the Colorado River, to enhance native fish communities. We sampled fish, benthic, and drifting macroinvertebrates in November 2010, January 2011, June 2011, and September 2011 to assess resource availability and to evaluate the effects of nonnative Brown and Rainbow Trout in a tributary of the Colorado River in the Grand Canyon. We evaluated trout diets from stomach samples collected during macroinvertebrate sampling periods, and we estimated annual consumption with bioenergetics models. We used
10.1086/677899|Molting is a stressful event in insect development. When an insect molts, the individual discards its exoskeleton and sheds and renews the interior lining of substantial portions of the respiratory (tracheal) system. We profiled for the first time the disruptive pattern of respiration during the molting process in larvae of the mayfly
10.1086/680024|Understanding heterogeneity or patchiness in the distribution of vegetation and retention of C and nutrients in river corridors is critical for setting priorities for river management and restoration. Several mechanisms of spatial differentiation in nutrient retention in river and floodplain corridors have been recognized, but few studies have distinguished their relative importance or established their role in long-term geomorphic change, nutrient retention, and connectivity with downstream systems. We evaluated the ability of 3 mechanisms (evapotranspiration focusing [EF], differential hydrologic exchange [DHE], and particulate nutrient redistribution [PNR]) to explain spatial patterns of P retention and function in the Everglades (Florida, USA). We used field measurements in sloughs and on slightly higher, more densely vegetated ridges to quantify P fluxes attributable to the 3 mechanisms. EF does not explain Everglades nutrient retention or P concentrations on ridges and in sloughs. However, DHE resulting from different periods of groundwatersurface-water connectivity across topographic elements is the primary cause of elevated P concentrations on ridges and completely explains interpatch differences in long-term P accumulation rates. With historical flow velocities, which were an order of magnitude higher than at present, PNR would have further increased the interpatch difference in long-term P retention rates nearly 2-fold. In conclusion, DHE and PNR are the dominant drivers of nutrient patchiness in the Everglades and are hypothesized to be important in P-limited river and floodplain corridors globally.
10.1086/678948|The objective of this study was to evaluate the performance of 3 bioassessment models for reference data sets collected from the Australia Capital Territory (ACT), the Yukon River Basin (YT), and the Laurentian Great Lakes (GL) built following the standard Canadian Aquatic Biomonitoring Network (CABIN) method. To evaluate the models, we used validation reference-site data, which were artificially impaired to simulate 3 levels of eutrophication by varying the proportions of sensitive, intermediate, and tolerant taxa. Models correctly classified 56 to 62% of reference sites. Type 1 errors (assessing reference sites as degraded) were high for all data sets and ranged from 30 to 75%, in part because the biological communities of the validation sites extended to or beyond the range of the reference-site data used to build the models. Capturing the full range of ecological variation with adequate sample size is critical for reference-condition approach (RCA)-type models. Type 2 errors (assessing degraded sites as in reference condition) varied greatly among data sets and for each reference group within each data set. Resource managers must carefully consider the risks associated with making errors. Thus, standard methods for quality assurance of assessment models should include simulated data so that error rates and adjusted assessment thresholds can be reported to ensure that degradation can be detected and that undisturbed sites are not mistakenly subjected to unnecessary management action.
10.1086/676471|Lake Tovel is an oligotrophic, meromictic, mountain lake of the Dolomites that undergoes marked seasonal water-level fluctuations (WLFs). We used neo- and paleolimnological data collected since 1999 to test the utility of algal and cyanobacterial pigments and diatom and chironomid biodiversity as proxies for WLF and to highlight the contribution of benthic algae to the sediment record. We found that detailed knowledge of present-day spatiotemporal patterns of WLF is essential for a complete and correct interpretation of paleolimnological data. Scytonemin, a cyanobacteria-specific photoprotective pigment, was produced by epilithic cyanobacteria in the depth zone affected by WLF and should be considered a proxy for the extent of WLF. The phytobenthos was as important as phytoplankton as a source of sedimentary pigments. We used information gained on the detailed distribution of diatoms at different depths and on different substrata in the 2 basins to show the probable location in the lake from which taxa in sediment cores originated to aid in interpretation of the sediment archive (including identification of periods of active hydrology). We sampled present-day chironomids in springs and streams feeding the lake and along a depth transect in the main basin. The taxa found were all rheophilic, crenophilous, or typical of the littoral zone of oligotrophic lakes. We interpreted sections of the cores containing large numbers of Orthocladiinae and Diamesinae head capsules as indicative of periods of active hydrology (including sudden and marked WLF) because the littoral taxa found in the cores must have been derived from the littoral zone by sediment focusing or slumps. Thus, we identified useful proxies of WLF in mountain, carbonate lakes.
10.1086/678048|Aquatic macrophytes suffer from widespread and profound habitat deterioration that has led to dramatic changes in species distributional patterns. We explored linkages between species functional traits and abundance patterns by analyzing mean community trait values in 1083 Danish lowland streams. We expected that widespread macrophytes would share common traits and that species with smaller ranges would be negatively associated with these traits. We selected 11 traits to characterize the ecological features of 52 amphibious and submerged species. We examined the relationships between species abundance and species traits with multivariate ordination and coinertia analysis (COIA), and identified groups of species with similar distributional patterns and ecological traits by hierarchical cluster analysis. Local abundance and geographical range size of submerged and amphibious species were significantly positively related. Species abundance and species traits tables were significantly correlated, and species were separated into 5 groups based on life form, productivity, meristem characteristics, ability to fragment, and the size of the root-rhizome system. Widespread plant species in Danish lowland streams shared common traits, such as meristem, dispersal, and productivity characteristics, and we infer that these traits are likely to have adaptive value in eutrophic and hydromorphologically disturbed habitats. On the other hand, species with narrower range sizes were characterized by a different set of trait characteristics. We conclude that species abundance and distribution patterns are closely correlated with ecological trait characteristics and that traits associated with resilience to anthropogenic disturbance confer success in Danish streams.
10.1899/12-095.1|We assessed the effects of road deicer (NaCl) on life-history traits (survival, emergence, development time, sex ratio, and size at emergence) of
10.1086/676996|Bryophytes can strongly influence biodiversity and ecosystem function in low-order streams. Mosses and liverworts have substantial biodiversity and biomass in streams, yet few investigators have examined which factors influence bryophyte species distributions, and fewer have examined assemblages across a wide pH gradient. We examined bryophyte assemblages across a pH gradient in 26 southeastern New York (USA) streams. We recorded bryophyte species richness, diversity, and abundance, in conjunction with pH, width, depth, canopy cover, substratum size, temperature, dissolved O
10.1899/10-159.1|Discharge variability is an important disturbance factor, and its effect on macroinvertebrate assemblages has been widely studied in river ecosystems. In comparison, few researchers have investigated discharge variability in springs because they are thought to be relatively stable ecosystems and because discharge is not easy to measure in springs. We used the gypsum-dissolution method to assess the discharge regime of 5 natural perennial springs during a 1-y study. We calculated discharge from the mass loss of gypsum spheres at a given temperature after calibration of the method in the laboratory. We also collected seasonal macroinvertebrate samples during the study period to assess the effect of discharge variability on the composition of macroinvertebrate assemblages in the springs. The calibration experiments revealed significant linear relationships between mass loss and discharge. In the field experiments, we were able to differentiate springs with high discharge variability from springs with low discharge variability. Species richness was highest in springs with highest maximum discharge. Seasonal variability in macroinvertebrate assemblages was higher in these springs than in springs with low discharge variability. Discharge variability (disturbance intensity) did not influence the diversity and number of spring specialists. We found no evidence for highest diversity at an intermediate level of disturbance as predicted by the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. The gypsum dissolution method is an appropriate method for assessing short- and medium-term discharge variability in springs. The importance of discharge variability as flow-associated disturbance is expected to increase in the context of the predicted effects of changes in global climate and land use, i.e., increasing drought periods and flood events.
10.1086/674383|Assessments of biotic nutrient limitation in aquatic ecosystems typically rely on concentrations and ratios of potentially limiting nutrients. While successful in lakes, this approach has been less effective in streams, which often are dominated by benthic autotrophs (e.g., algae and vascular plants). We compared water-column nutrient concentration (
10.1086/674361|Climate change will cause relict alpine glaciers to disappear within decades. Associated high-altitude streams will face significant hydrological changes that might affect population genetic diversity of lotic species. In a recent study of glacier-fed streams in the Pyrenees, Finn et al. (
10.1086/682566|Urban stormwater management is complex with diverse institutional responsibilities, imperfect regulation, and limited, often unclear accountabilities. Improving practices in that context requires strong leadership, long-term commitment, and lasting interorganizational relationships founded on trust. We summarize events that steered Melbournes waterway management authority to support a catchment-scale experiment markedly different from management applications or research approaches it had previously attempted. We highlight challenges, lessons learned, and subsequent institutional changes to stormwater management. Project challenges included: substantial investment in a small area from an organization with dispersed regional responsibilities, gaining intra- and interorganizational commitment, ongoing catchment development that counteracted management efforts, requirement for ongoing investment under short-term funding and political cycles, and absence of short-term measurable responses in stream health. These challenges led to design innovations, new catchment planning approaches, new best practice objectives, and new government policies that collectively changed approaches to stormwater management in our region. Critical to the initiation and success of this project, and probably to other similar projects, was building institutional commitment through long-term relationships between researchers and practitioners, and risk sharing made possible by co-investment.
10.1086/681527|Low-trophic-position animals, such as herbivorous and detritivorous fishes, mollusks, and crustaceans, have been introduced and become established in aquatic ecosystems throughout the globe. After introduction, they have the potential to change community structure and ecosystem processes fundamentally. Armored catfishes (Siluriformes:Loricariidae) are grazing fishes that have an extensive nonnative distribution. High population densities of nonnative loricariids have been linked to the decline of freshwater fisheries in invaded habitats, but the mechanisms underlying declines are poorly understood. We coupled the results of 2 loricariid exclosure experiments with a comparison of invaded and uninvaded sites to measure the effects of loricariids on the quantity and quality of food resources in a tropical stream. Loricariid grazing reduced the standing stock of benthic organic matter and algal biomass in experimental manipulations and in the site comparison. Moreover, grazing by loricariids significantly altered the stoichiometry and the total amount of C, N, and P stored in the epilithon. The effects on P were particularly strong. Our results indicate that high densities of low-trophic-position invaders can significantly reduce the quality and the quantity of food resources in invaded systems. In particular, our findings provide evidence that the invasion of a P-rich grazer in a P-limited system has the potential to reduce P availability for other consumers.
10.1086/682147|Flooding is an important physical disturbance in many streams and rivers. Ecological theory suggests that population persistence will be enhanced if organisms can take shelter from high flow during floods. We investigated whether the black fly larva
10.1086/678460|Freshwater aquifers are a major source of drinking water. They also possess unique assemblages of organisms. However, little is known about the distributional drivers of obligate groundwater organisms at the regional scale. We examined the distribution and composition of stygobiont assemblages in a complex geological setting and explored the relationship between groundwater fauna, hydrogeology, and water chemistry. In the study area, we grouped similar geologies into 5 hydrogeological formations (hydro-units [HUs]) within which habitats for groundwater fauna were broadly similar. The occurrence of stygobionts differed significantly between HUs. Stygobionts were significantly less likely to be recorded in mudstone/siltstone and sandstone aquifers than in carbonate or igneous/metamorphic rocks. Variance partitioning indicated that HU explained a greater proportion of the variance (7.52%) in the groundwater community than water chemistry (5.02%). However, much of the variation remained unexplained. The macrofaunal stygobiont species in our study area formed 3 groups: 1)
10.1086/676913|Biological attributes of ecosystems often change nonlinearly as a function of anthropogenic and natural stress. Plant and animal communities may exhibit zones of change along a stressor gradient that are disproportionate relative to the incremental change in the stressor. The ability to predict such transitions is essential for effective management intervention because they may indicate irreversible changes in ecological processes. Despite the importance of recognizing transition zones along a stressor gradient, few, if any, investigators have examined these responses across multiple taxa, and no community threshold studies have been reported at large geographic scales. We surveyed benthic macroinvertebrate, fish, bird, diatom, and plant communities in coastal wetlands across a geospatially referenced gradient of anthropogenic stress in the Laurentian Great Lakes. We used Threshold Indicator Taxon Analysis (Baker and King
10.1899/12-209.1|Human activity has significantly increased dissolved inorganic N (DIN) availability and has modified the relative proportion of NO
10.1086/675079|Diatoms are main bioindicators used to assess the ecological quality of rivers, but their identification is difficult and time-consuming. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) can be used to study communities of microorganisms, so we carried out a test of the reliability of 454 pyrosequencing for estimating diatom inventories in environmental samples. We used small subunit ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid (SSU rDNA), ribulose-1, 5-bisphosphate carboxylase (
10.1086/678516|Storm-flow disturbances are frequent during the wet season of Australian tropical savannas. We examined benthic algal resistance and resilience in open-canopy streams in the Daly River watershed. Storm flows occurred every 2 to 3 d at 1
10.1086/676658|We examined the hypothesis that direct predation is part of the explanation for the displacement of zebra (
10.1899/13-046.1|Early detection of aquatic invasive species is a critical task for management of aquatic ecosystems. This task is hindered by the difficulty and cost of surveying aquatic systems thoroughly. The New Zealand mudsnail (
10.1899/11-168.1|Land-management agencies need quantitative, statistically rigorous monitoring data, often at large spatial and temporal scales, to support resource-management decisions. Monitoring designs typically must accommodate multiple ecological, logistical, political, and economic objectives and constraints. We present a long-term bioregional monitoring program to assess the status and change in populations of the federally listed candidate frog species, Yosemite toad (
10.1899/11-081.1|One of the biggest challenges when conducting a national-scale assessment of lakes, such as the 2007 US National Lake Assessment (NLA), is finding enough reference lakes to set appropriate expectations for the assessed sites. In the NLA, a random design was used to select lakes for sampling to make unbiased estimates of regional condition. However, such an approach was unlikely to yield enough minimally impacted lakes to use as reference sites, especially in disturbed regions. We developed a 3-stage process to select candidate reference lakes to augment the NLA probability sample in the northeastern USA (Northeast). Screening included a water-chemistry database filter, landuse evaluation, and analysis of aerial photographs. In the Northeast, we assembled a database of 2109 lakes >4ha in surface area, of which 369 passed the water-chemistry screen. Of these, 220 failed the watershed landuse screen and 60 failed the aerial photograph screen, leaving a set of 89 optimal candidate reference lakes. Twenty of these lakes were sampled as potential reference lakes in the NLA. Based on a wide variety of indicators, NLA field measurements indicated that almost all (85100%) of the chosen candidate reference lakes had least-disturbed water chemistry, although somewhat fewer had least disturbed physical habitat (7479%) and biology (6878%). Nevertheless, our 3-stage screening process was an efficient method for identification of good candidates for reference-lake sampling. The reference-lake selection process used in our study can be done in the office and relatively inexpensively. As such, it is very useful for large-scale regional or national studies encompassing areas too large to census. It also has the advantage of adding a level of consistency and quantification to the reference-site selection process.
10.1086/676997|Mountaintop mining (MTM) affects chemical, physical, and hydrological properties of receiving streams, but the long-term consequences for fish-assemblage structure and function are poorly understood. We sampled stream fish assemblages using electrofishing techniques in MTM exposure sites and reference sites within the Guyandotte River basin, USA, during 20102011. We calculated indices of taxonomic diversity (species richness, abundance, Shannon diversity) and functional diversity (functional richness, functional evenness, functional divergence) to compare exposure and reference assemblages between seasons (spring and autumn) and across years (19992011). We based temporal comparisons on 2 sites that were sampled during 19992001 by Stauffer and Ferreri (
10.1086/682676|Assessing and categorizing habitat needs or population trends of organisms with complex life histories, such as Odonata, is challenging. All Odonata have aquatic nymphs and terrestrial adults. As a consequence, their use as indicators of ecosystem health or as umbrella species in conservation plans may be misleading if data from a particular life stage does not reflect actual residency at a freshwater site. We explored this question with an extensive data set for Odonata from Oklahoma, USA, to determine if ecological niches modeled from records of adults (i.e., lacking any evidence of breeding) differed from niches modeled for records indicating breeding (tandem pairs, ovipositing females, larvae, teneral [recently emerged adults], or exuviae [shed exoskeletons of larvae]) at surveyed sites. We predicted that models would be comparable if adult presence strongly indicates local breeding but would be dissimilar if adults occupy many more sites than those at which the species breeds. Our results supported the latter prediction. Adult models were broader geographically and had a wider, more equitable (higher evenness) balance of contributing environmental variables (niche dimensions) than did models for breeders, which tended to be more ecologically specialized. These findings suggest that surveys of adult Odonata, which are relatively easy to obtain because of organized efforts to encourage observations by citizen scientists, can paint a misleadingly broad picture of a species ecological niche. We recommend that evidence of breeding, especially presence of tenerals or exuviae, be used to outline ecological requirements when questions of conservation or population monitoring arise.
10.1086/679015|Most nutrient-spiraling studies have focused on estimates of gross uptake (
10.1086/683391|Climate change and fire suppression have altered fire regimes globally, leading to larger, more frequent, and more severe wildfires. Responses of coldwater stream biota to single wildfires are well studied, but measured responses to consecutive wildfires in warmwater systems that often include mixed assemblages of native and nonnative taxa are lacking. We quantified changes in physical habitat, resource availability, and biomass of cold- and warmwater oligochaetes, insects, crayfish, fishes, and tadpoles following consecutive megafires (covering >100 km
10.1899/11-109.1|Conservation and management of headwater streams amid rapid global change require an understanding of the spatial and environmental factors that drive species distributions and associated ecosystem processes. We used a hierarchical analytical framework to model effects of catchment-scale topography and wetland geomorphic classes on stream physical habitat, chemistry, and macroinvertebrate and fish communities in 30 headwater streams across the Kenai Lowlands, southcentral Alaska, USA. We identified 135 macroinvertebrate taxa, 122 of which were aquatic insects, of which 79 were dipterans. We collected only 6 species of fish, but juvenile coho salmon and Dolly Varden were collected in 17 and 25 of the 30 streams and reached densities >500 and 1300/km, respectively. Flow-weighted slope, an indicator of water residence time and gradient, was the best catchment-scale correlate of macroinvertebrate and fish community structure, and its effect was mediated by wetland geomorphic classes and numerous water chemistry, substrate composition, and channel geomorphology variables measured at the reach scale. Many macroinvertebrate taxa showed high fidelity to different levels of the topographic gradient, resulting in high  diversity but relatively similar levels of  diversity across the gradient. Juvenile salmonids were segregated among streams by both species and age classes. Coho salmon fry and parr (<10cm total length [TL]) had significant unimodal distributions that peaked in streams with intermediate slopes and gravel substrate, whereas presmolts (10cm) were found only in lowest-sloping streams with mostly peat substrate and deep, slow channels. Large Dolly Varden (8cm) were found across the entire gradient but were most abundant in high-sloping catchments, whereas small Dolly Varden (<8cm) followed a similar distribution but were absent from the lowest-gradient sites with low flow velocity, dissolved O
10.1899/12-137.1|Unionoids are important in aquatic ecosystems, but despite their continued decline in diversity, few multifactorial studies have been done to identify determinants of their distribution and diversity. We studied the effects of multiple environmental factors on species richness and abundance at 65 sites in 6 major watersheds in the Pine Hills region, Louisiana. We surveyed in-stream habitat variables, land use/cover, and the co-occurring fish assemblages in 2
10.1899/12-090.1|Decomposition of senesced primary production starts processing chains in aquatic systems. Shredding macroinvertebrates convert coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) to fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) that supports 2 other feeding groups, collecting and filtering macroinvertebrates. This linkage is often invoked by aquatic ecologists, but the effect of detritivore assemblage composition on production of FPOM is relatively understudied. I manipulated detritivore assemblage composition (
10.1086/681526|Rivers in tropical Australia are largely pristine, and ecosystem connectivity is intact, but water resources in northern Australia are under increasing development pressure. A better understanding of the role and life histories of key migratory species is urgently needed to manage the risks posed by development. We investigated the life history of
10.1086/674984|The Australian Monsoonal Tropics (AMT) is a unique location for the study of phylogeography and intraspecific genetic variation in freshwater fish. We assessed the phylogeographic structure of 5 species from 2 genera across the region. The species included 3 neosilurids (Plotosidae,
10.1899/12-169.1|Commonly referred to as keystone species, crayfish are ecologically important for their ability to transfer energy efficiently to higher trophic levels in aquatic food webs. They also are ecosystem engineers, modifying substrate and influencing distribution of other benthic invertebrates. However, crayfish have yet to be examined as potential predators of benthic fish in lotic systems. We examined a possible relationship between crayfish and benthic fish populations by quantifying natural densities of both groups and by using enclosure/exclosure and laboratory experiments to test for crayfish predation on benthic fish. Data obtained by sampling Illinois streams showed that increased crayfish density was correlated with decreased fish density, and this relationship was not influenced by habitat variables. Data from in-stream enclosure/exclosure experiments showed predation by crayfish (
10.1086/678350|The effects of river-flow fluctuations on groundwater ecosystems and differences in ecological conditions in aquifers connected to losing, gaining, and alternating river reaches are poorly known. We used monitoring wells at gaining and losing reaches along an alluvial river to identify associations between river and groundwater fluctuations and ecological conditions in riverine aquifers. Groundwater and surface-water pH, temperature, and dissolved O
10.1899/12-157.1|One of the best studied freshwater predatorprey interactions is arguably that between crayfish and gastropods. In many ecosystems, crayfish limit populations of thin-shelled snails and induce changes in snail traits. However, the connection between these 2 phenomena and, therefore, the mechanism by which crayfish have population-dynamic effects on snails, has been little studied. I examined the population-level effects of 2 procambarid crayfish (
10.1086/683534|Differences in temperature, relative humidity, and vapor pressure deficit (VPD) were observed within small patches of pondcypress (
10.1899/11-030.1|Forest disturbance agents, such as wildfire and windthrow, often differ in magnitude and frequency between upland and riparian zones. Riparian forests may be subject to additional disturbance agents that do not affect uplands, including debris flows, floods, bank erosion, and avulsions. Forest harvesting, with or without a streamside buffer, is an additional riparian disturbance agent in managed landscapes. The effects of riparian harvesting on stream habitat and ecology are qualitatively similar to those of wildfire, with the important exception of recruitment of large in-stream wood. For most other disturbance agents, current knowledge is insufficient to assess the degree to which natural disturbance can be emulated via riparian forest harvesting. In particular, the effects of the spatial patterns and frequencies of disturbance on the trajectories and rates of postdisturbance recovery are poorly understood for many landscapes and are complicated by the potential for propagation of effects down the stream network. Broadly based, long-term research on riparian disturbance regimes is needed to provide the scientific basis required for designing strategies for sustainable streamside forest management.
10.1899/12-101.1|The relative influence of landscape vs local processes on variation in stream C and energy sources to lotic consumers remains unresolved, but is a key component in understanding pathways through stream food webs. I investigated potential linkages between the distribution of 
10.1899/11-006.1|Species in complex ecosystems, such as streams, are influenced by multiple top-down and bottom-up control factors. Food-resource and competition/predation mechanisms are among the most influential factors controlling population ecology. Balancing the effects of bottom-up control by food resources and top-down control by competition/predation can trigger compensatory responses leading to changes in species ecology within the limit of their plasticity. These effects have been well studied in simple controlled conditions, but predicting their outcome is difficult for natural populations in genuine ecosystems because of the heterogeneity of environmental conditions and the complexity of biotic interactions. We investigated the ecological response in terms of feeding habits and population parameters of the stream-dwelling predator,
10.1086/679490|Climate warming poses a serious threat to alpine-restricted species worldwide, yet few studies have empirically documented climate-induced changes in distributions. The rare stonefly,
10.1086/675811|Extracellular material can play a key role in benthic ecosystems, but most of our current knowledge about extracellular material comes from marine intertidal systems. Data from lakes are lacking. We worked in Lake Opeongo, a 5800-ha dystrophic lake on the Canadian Precambrian Shield, and investigated changes in extracellular material as a function of light intensity, sediment characteristics, and disturbance regime and algal biomass, community composition, and primary production, all factors important in marine intertidal studies. We used permutation-based path analysis to test alternative models. We found a negative effect of in situ primary production on loosely bound, colloidal extracellular material, indicating that extracellular material may be released under stressful conditions. The effect of algal community composition on colloidal extracellular material also was significant. Total extracellular material was affected only by time of year, indicating that tightly bound, capsular extracellular material is more refractory than colloidal extracellular material. We found no significant effects of environmental factors (light, nutrients, or wind-driven disturbance) on either colloidal or total extracellular material, despite their importance in marine intertidal systems.
10.1899/12-078.1|Stage-specific interactions can have large effects on food webs and ecosystem processes. We investigated stage-specific interactions between signal crayfish (
10.1086/679903|Our daily life depends on many services delivered by the planets ecosystems. Groundwater ecosystems deliver services that are of immense societal and economic value, such as: 1) purification of water and its storage in good quality for decades and centuries, 2) active biodegradation of anthropogenic contaminants and inactivation and elimination of pathogens, 3) nutrient recycling, and 4) mitigation of floods and droughts. Many of these services are directly connected to the presence and activity of specific organisms, microorganisms, or metazoa. Sustainable protection and management of important groundwater ecosystem services will require quantitative understanding of processes at different spatial and temporal scales and assessment of their resistance and resilience with regard to common anthropogenic impacts. Our review compiles known groundwater ecosystem services and, where appropriate, highlights important research gaps.
10.1899/11-097.1|We analyzed nutrient data from the National Lakes Assessment (NLA), a probability survey of 1028 lakes >4ha in lake area across the conterminous USA to quantify and contrast different methods of setting nutrient criteria. We calculated potential nutrient criteria for total P (TP), total N (TN), and chlorophyll
10.1899/12-083.1|Theory predicts that different components of species diversity should increase with environmental heterogeneity. Our main aim was to examine the relationship between -diversity and environmental heterogeneity in a system with high habitat heterogeneity and very small spatial distances between sites. This system allowed us to examine the effect of habitat heterogeneity on -diversity in the absence of dispersal limitation. We surveyed 100 riffle sites (10 riffles in each of 10 streams) for benthic macroinvertebrates in a boreal drainage basin. Streams differed in average community composition (based on canonical analysis of principal coordinates) and heterogeneity in community composition (based on test of homogeneity of dispersion). These results were robust regardless of the distance measures used in distance-based multivariate analyses. -diversity was not significantly correlated with stream habitat heterogeneity, despite the fact that the latter was quantified by a large set of environmental variables deemed important for species occurrence in our study streams. Thus, we suggest that the relationship between -diversity and habitat heterogeneity was masked by individual speciesenvironment responses and mass effects. Thus, the -diversityhabitat heterogeneity relationship may not always be significant, a result that may have important consequences for understanding the structure of community patterns. Despite the absence of a significant -diversityhabitat heterogeneity relationship, community structure was significantly associated with environmental factors (e.g., moss cover, stream width, velocity) across the streams in distance-based redundancy analysis. This finding suggests that different ways to associate -diversity, community structure, and environmental conditions may yield different insights into the structure of biotic communities.
10.1086/679654|The hyporheic zone (HZ) can be an important source of solutes to streams. Hyporheic solute fluxes are commonly dominated by advective exchange. However, fluxes from the HZ also may include diffusion and upward advection of ground water from underlying aquifers. We compared the relative importance of these transport mechanisms on solute budgets of a large, spring-fed river in north-central Florida using measurements of spring, river, and porewater chemistry, hydraulic gradients, and sediment hydraulic conductivity, and dilution of an injected dye (Rhodamine WT). Downstream increases in Fe, soluble reactive P (SRP), Ca
10.1899/12-079.1|Nondestructive tissue sampling is desirable for genetic or physiological studies of endangered freshwater mussels. We used the freshwater pearl mussel (
10.1086/681256|Breakdown of litter in streams is an important terrestrialaquatic C pathway in forests. Macroinvertebrate detritivore shredders that feed on litter may be more abundant in temperate than tropical streams because the feeding guild is generally restricted to cool waters and because temperate streams may have more high-quality resources. However, rich shredder communities have been found in some high-altitude tropical streams. We investigated litter breakdown and the variation in resource quality of native riparian vegetation in tropical streams at different altitudes (863393 m) in eastern Malaysia (Borneo). At each stream, we collected 3 native local leaf species, analyzed their initial resource quality, and incubated them for 56 d in coarse- (shredder and microbial colonization) and fine- (only microbial colonization) mesh bags. We incubated
10.1899/11-027.1|Sound decision making in environmental research and management requires an understanding of causal relationships between stressors and ecological responses. However, demonstrating causeeffect relationships in natural systems is challenging because of difficulties with natural variability, performing experiments, lack of replication, and the presence of confounding influences. Thus, even the best-designed study may not establish causality. We describe a method that uses evidence available in the extensive published ecological literature to assess support for causeeffect hypotheses in environmental investigations. Our method, called
10.1899/11-060.1|According to theory, the rate and stoichiometry of microbial mineralization depend, in part, on nutrient availability. For microbes associated with leaves in streams, nutrients are available from both the water column and the leaf. Therefore, microbial nutrient cycling may change with nutrient availability and during leaf decomposition. We explored spatial and temporal patterns of mineralization by heterotrophic microbes by placing packs of red maple leaves at sites in 5 Appalachian streams spanning a range of N and P availability. We collected packs 4 times from each site. Leaf disks from these packs were incubated in microcosms, and uptake rates and steady-state concentrations of NH
10.1086/680517|The introduced North American signal crayfish
10.1899/12-132.1|Native freshwater mussels are a diverse but imperiled fauna and may be especially sensitive to increasing water temperatures because many species already may be living near their upper thermal limits. We tested the hypothesis that elevated water temperatures (20, 25, 30, and 35C) adversely affected the survival and physiology of 2-mo-old juvenile mussels (
10.1086/677070|In situ seed banks are a promising avenue for restoration of plant communities damaged by anthropogenic changes. The invasive rusty crayfish (
10.1086/677555|Stream functioning includes simultaneous interaction among solute transport, nutrient processing, and metabolism. Metabolism is measured with methods that have limited spatial representativeness and are highly uncertain. These problems restrict development of methods for up-scaling biological processes that mediate nutrient processing. We used the resazurinresorufin (Raz-Rru) tracer system to estimate metabolism at different spatial scales (habitat, subreach, and reach) in 2 headwater streams of the H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest (Oregon, USA), and present a mathematical framework for its application. We investigated the relationship between metabolism and hydrodynamics, i.e., geomorphic units (e.g., poolriffle, poolcascade), bed materials (i.e., alluvium vs bedrock channels), and type of transient storage (i.e., pure hyporheic exchange, pure surface transient storage, and a combination of both). The metabolic hotspots detected by the Raz-Rru system in both watersheds were related to hydrodynamic conditions known to increase biological processing. Higher respiration rate coefficients were found in subreaches with extensive hyporheic flow and flow through large woody-debris complexes, and higher reaeration rate coefficients were found in subreaches with intensive respiration activity and higher flow velocities. Because such hydrodynamic conditions and their effects on stream processing are difficult to quantify in headwater streams without the use of tracer techniques, the Raz-Rru system proved to be a good integrator of solute transport and stream metabolism processes.
10.1899/12-040.1|Freshwater mussels perform critical ecosystem functions and provide many valuable ecological services. However, anthropogenic effects have severely decreased mussel diversity and abundance at both local and regional scales. Understanding how human disturbances, particularly landuse change, and fish assemblages are related to mussel assemblages is essential for effective conservation and restoration. We used Random Forests (RF) regressions, a data-mining technique, to examine how mussel species richness, total abundance, and abundances of individual species were related to land use at different spatial scales and to fish species richness and abundance in east central Illinois, USA. Mussel richness increased with % wetlands, % open water, % grassland in the riparian zone, and total fish abundance; decreased with % urban land in the riparian zone; but responded poorly to fish species richness and fish Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) scores. Total mussel abundance mainly increased with total fish abundance and decreased with both % urban land in the riparian zone and road density. Of 8 mussel species modeled, the abundances of 3 were strongly related to total fish abundance or fish-host abundance, 3 with both fish abundance and land use, and 2 with land use and other physical variables. These findings can help researchers and resource managers explain the spatial variation of mussel assemblages and choose abiotic and biotic variables to monitor or manipulate for maintaining or restoring overall mussel diversity or the populations of individual species.
10.1899/12-046.1|Streams draining urban heat islands tend to be hotter than rural and forested streams at baseflow because of warmer urban air and ground temperatures, paved surfaces, and decreased riparian canopy. Urban infrastructure efficiently routes runoff over hot impervious surfaces and through storm drains directly into streams and can lead to rapid, dramatic increases in temperature. Thermal regimes affect habitat quality and biogeochemical processes, and changes can be lethal if temperatures exceed upper tolerance limits of aquatic fauna. In summer 2009, we collected continuous (10-min interval) temperature data in 60 streams spanning a range of development intensity in the Piedmont of North Carolina, USA. The 5 most urbanized streams averaged 21.1C at baseflow, compared to 19.5C in the 5 most forested streams. Temperatures in urban streams rose as much as 4C during a small regional storm, whereas the same storm led to extremely small to no changes in temperature in forested streams. Over a kilometer of stream length, baseflow temperature varied by as much as 10C in an urban stream and as little as 2C in a forested stream. We used structural equation modeling to explore how reach- and catchment-scale attributes interact to explain maximum temperatures and magnitudes of storm-flow temperature surges. The best predictive model of baseflow temperatures (
10.1899/11-042.1|Most foodweb research in lentic systems has focused on pelagic primary (phytoplankton) and secondary (zooplankton) production as the primary energy sources for higher trophic-level production. Recent research has demonstrated that secondary production of benthic primary consumers can affect pelagic fish production and foodweb structure in lakes. We used the instantaneous growth method to calculate secondary production of chironomids in Lake Winnebago, Wisconsin (USA), where previous research has shown that lake sturgeon (
10.1899/12-091.1|Downed wood pieces are key links between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. They promote organic matter retention, create habitat, and potentially increase stream productivity. The stock of downed wood in a river system is a product of the interaction between wood supply, transport, in situ losses, and retention characteristics of the system. Fire and forest management are important disturbances that influence the amount and organization of stream wood with boom-and-bust periods of recruitment and fluvial transport processes. We examined 1
10.1086/675453|Compared to phytoplankton, relatively little information exists about the importance of benthic algae as a source of dissolved organic C (DOC) in lakes. We enriched outdoor tanks with N and P in a full factorial design (unenriched, +N, +P, N+P) to evaluate effects of nutrients on the release, composition, and decomposition of DOC from
10.1899/12-055.1|Empirical analyses of ecological changes accompanying nutrient enrichment provide one line of evidence for developing protective nutrient criteria. The purpose of my study was to elucidate 2 important aspects of such empirical analyses: 1) how statistical techniques compare regarding types of relationships fit and benchmark values obtained, and 2) how decisions regarding log-transformation of right-skewed nutrient data affect the results. I used data from Great Lakes coastal wetlands describing a suite of water-quality and biotic responses over a large nutrient gradient to conduct side-by-side evaluations of 5 statistical techniques (logistic regression, cumulative probability analysis, linear regression, piecewise regression, classification and regression tree analysis [CART]). With this somewhat noisy data set, differences in goodness-of-fit among techniques that modeled gradual changes vs ones that identified abrupt transitions were remarkably small, providing little evidence for superiority of one over another. However, differences among techniques in nutrient benchmark values and their ecological interpretation were substantial. Log
10.1899/12-008.1|Physicochemical conditions in refugia must remain within the tolerance limits of aquatic invertebrates if they are to persist in intermittent streams when surface water is absent. We investigated shallow streambed sediments as a refuge for aquatic invertebrates and survival of invertebrates at high temperatures during the dry period in 3 headwater intermittent streams in New Zealand. Sediments from dry stream beds inundated in the laboratory contained 37 of the 53 taxa found in nearby flowing streams, a result suggesting that many taxa attempt to use the dry stream bed as a refuge during dry periods. Relative abundances of microcrustacea (copepods and ostracods), Gastropoda and Coleoptera (mostly Scirtidae) were greater in rewetted sediments than in sediments from nearby flowing streams, and several Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera taxa were present in low densities in rewetted sediments. All taxa that became active in rewetted sediments, except Hydrobiosidae,
10.1086/678768|We developed a bioassessment tool (HYDRA) to predict the taxa present at a site based on the best performing machine learning tool (Support Vector Machines [SVM], Multi-Layer Perceptron [MLP], K-Nearest Neighbour [KNN]) for each taxon. HYDRA differs from standard models based on discriminant function analysis (DFA) in 2 main ways: 1) HYDRA predicts taxa directly without a priori reference-site classification, and 2) all environmental variables provided for model building contribute to predictions instead of only those that best explain differences among groups. Probabilities of taxon occurrence were used to calculate the Observed/Expected index (O/E50), based on taxa predicted with >50% probability of occurrence. We tested the hypothesis that a combination of models (HYDRA) would perform better than each model alone (SVM, MLP, KNN). We measured performance as: 1) taxon prediction accuracy, 2) precision given by the O/E50 standard deviation (SD O/E50), 3) accuracy of the validation O vs E linear regression, and 4) sensitivity to impairment. We used 3 data sets covering a wide range of environmental conditions (Yukon Territory, Great Lakes, Australian Capital Territory) and calculated O/E50 values for reference, validation, and sites with 3 known levels of simulated impairment. We created 4 quality classes (GoodSevere) and used the 10
10.1086/684073|Fire is a prevalent feature of many landscapes and has numerous and complex effects on geological, hydrological, ecological, and economic systems. In some regions, the frequency and intensity of wildfire have increased in recent years and are projected to escalate with predicted climatic and landuse changes. In addition, prescribed burns continue to be used in many parts of the world to clear vegetation for development projects, encourage desired vegetation, and reduce fuel loads. Given the prevalence of fire on the landscape, authors of papers in this special series examine the complexities of fire as a disturbance shaping freshwater ecosystems and highlight the state of the science. These papers cover key aspects of fire effects that range from vegetation loss and recovery in watersheds to effects on hydrology and water quality with consequences for communities (from algae to fish), food webs, and ecosystem processes (e.g., organic matter subsidies, nutrient cycling) across a range of scales. The results presented in this special series of articles expand our knowledge of fire effects in different biomes, water bodies, and geographic regions, encompassing aquatic population, community, and ecosystem responses. In this overview, we summarize each paper and emphasize its contributions to knowledge on fire ecology and freshwater ecosystems. This overview concludes with a list of 7 research foci that are needed to further our knowledge of fire effects on aquatic ecosystems, including research on: 1) additional biomes and geographic regions; 2) additional habitats, including wetlands and lacustrine ecosystems; 3) different fire severities, sizes, and spatial configurations; and 4) additional response variables (e.g., ecosystem processes) 5) over long (>5 y) time scales 6) with more rigorous study designs and data analyses, and 7) consideration of the effects of fire management practices and policies on aquatic ecosystems.
10.1086/674632|We analyzed basal sources, trophic levels, and connectance in dry-season food webs on 4 rivers in the upper Burdekin catchment in the dry tropics of northeastern Australia. The region is characterized by episodic summer rainfall, and most of the annual river flow occurs in a short period. In the dry season, rivers typically contract into a series of water holes of varying permanence and hydrologic connectivity. We used stable-isotope and stomach-content analyses to identify trophic levels of macroinvertebrates and fish, and we used a mixing model (SIAR) to identify foodweb basal sources at each site. We found substantial variability among sites in basal-source contributions, trophic position of individual taxa, and foodweb structure, and sites from the same river often were as different as sites from different rivers. Important basal sources at different sites included allochthonous tree litter, autochthonous algae and macrophytes, and Fe-fixing bacteria. Many relationships between consumers and basal sources were not resolved in the mixing model, mainly because of extensive omnivory or isotopic overlap among sources. Nevertheless, our results show high variability of dry-tropics river communities that extends beyond previously described macroinvertebrate assemblages to the broader food web. However, the main components of the upper trophic levels were similar across sites, such that different lower trophic levels supported similar assemblages of top consumers. These tropical rivers were defined by omnivory and ecological opportunism, which may be adaptations to seasonal hydrological variability.
10.1899/12-102.1|N
10.1899/11-022.1|Limestone-based (karstic) freshwater wetlands of the Everglades, Belize, Mexico, and Jamaica are distinctive in having a high biomass of CaCO
10.1899/12-060.1|Parasites are ubiquitous members of ecological communities but have only recently been recognized as key players in broader interactions and ecosystem dynamics, such as foodweb structure and energy flow. Ecological stoichiometry provides a framework for placing parasites in an ecosystem perspective by considering elemental imbalances and their consequences. I measured the elemental content of trematodes and their gastropod hosts and then estimated the nutrient-recycling effects of parasitism. NP of all tissue types in trematodes of the freshwater pulmonate snail,
10.1899/12-034.1|Tar spot is a common leaf disease of
10.1899/12-013.1|We examined the effect of vertical hydrological exchange on physicochemical variables, periphyton biomass (ecosystem properties), and sediment respiration (ecosystem process) at 2 spatial scales along a large gravel-bed river (Tagliamento River, northeastern Italy). At the regional scale, we investigated a 29-km-long, expanding and contracting, losing (average flow decrease 2.5m
10.1086/681525|Global studies of streams are needed to develop general ecosystem and management models. We reviewed research that tested ecological models in streams of the Queensland Wet Tropics bioregion (QWT), which makes up 0.26% of Australia but supports distinctive and high biodiversity, most of which is of Gondwanan or marine origin. QWT streams have seasonal but perennial flow, high insolation, and higher diversity of riparian vegetation, invertebrates, and fish than temperate streams. Consistent physical conditions sustain biological processes through the year, and predictable wet seasons, but unpredictable floods, have shaped a resilient and opportunistic biota. Stream food webs are dominated by predators, and prey turnover is rapid. Small streams are heterotrophic and become autotrophic as canopies open in larger streams. Predation and competition influence assemblage composition most in the dry season, when habitats contract and densities increase. Riparian clearing, weed invasion, and agricultural contamination affect table lands and floodplains. High temperatures exacerbate weed growth and eutrophication, but contaminants may be diluted by high flows from forested catchments. Climate change probably will cause warming and greater hydrological seasonality, threatening endemic species. The biophysical characteristics of QWT streams are found elsewhere in the tropics, but the species pool is not. QWT streams are important because of their insular and remnant nature. Patterns and processes can differ between QWT and comparable temperate systems because of biogeographic and biophysical characteristics and their interactions with anthropogenic effects, exacerbated by the tropical climate. Research in the QWT both affirms and contradicts theories of stream ecology, underpins conservation and management needs of tropical streams, and provides points of reference for comparative studies in stream ecology, conservation, and management.
10.1086/678127|Cold water provided by small tributary streams can contribute to thermal heterogeneity in downstream receiving waters, thereby providing important thermal refuge habitat for cold-water aquatic taxa residing in warmer mainstem rivers. We investigated the potential function of small perennial and nonperennial tributary streams, including intermittent and ephemeral channels (some of which were dry) as sources of cold water to warmer receiving rivers. We used random forest analysis to model occurrence of cold-water patches at tributary confluences as a function of watershed and climatic characteristics and tested predictive performance with a 2-y data set of 68 tributarymainstem confluence zones in northeastern Oregon, USA. Cold-water patches were present in 53% (36 of 68) of the tributary confluences. Of these, 14 occurred at tributaries that had no surface-water flow at the time of sampling. The likelihood of a tributary contributing a detectable source of cold water to a confluence zone during late July to early August was positively associated with an estimate of the water surplus available in the tributary basin at the end of the preceding wet season. Basin area and the presence of tributary surface flow at the time of sampling were relatively uninformative predictors of cold-water patch presence. Because surface flow was not evident in 39% of the tributaries where cold-water patches were observed, we conclude that the availability of thermal refugia for cold-water taxa, such as Pacific Salmon (
10.1899/12-215.1|The stoichiometric ratios of organisms and their food resources can influence C and nutrient dynamics in aquatic ecosystems. Several investigators have quantified linkages between nutrient enrichment and consumer stoichiometry for stream detritivores, but very few have systematically quantified the effect of P enrichment on leaf-litter stoichiometry. Here, we examine the potential stoichiometric changes of 2 species of leaf litter subjected to varying levels of P enrichment in laboratory microcosms and mixed species across a natural P gradient of streams in the Ozark Highlands Region, Arkansas, USA. Leaf-litter %P content increased and CP ratios decreased with increasing levels of P enrichment and with increasing lability of the leaf species. In the laboratory study, CP of maple and oak leaves in the control treatment was 2500, whereas this ratio decreased to 500 and 1000 in the high-P treatments, respectively. Total P (TP) was inversely related to leaf-litter CP along the natural P gradient of streams in the Ozarks. Our results add to the growing body of information on the potential bottom-up effects of anthropogenic nutrient loading in streams and the influence of water-column nutrients and leaf quality on this response.
10.1086/682328|We report the design, construction, and functional characteristics of a sealable, portable chamber for measuring benthic metabolic process rates, particularly those under unidirectional flow as found in streams. The design optimizes inherent tradeoffs, such as size, stability, and cost, associated with chambers built for field-based measurements. The chamber is small enough to be portable and minimizes the water-volume:benthic surface-area ratio. In addition, the chamber is clear to allow measurement of photosynthetic rates. The design minimizes power draw to sustain water velocities found at stream field sites and is modular to allow easy disassembly and cleaning. The design is relatively simple, thereby increasing sturdiness, minimizing construction costs, and decreasing the expertise required to build the unit. We demonstrated the performance characteristics, specifically amperage needed to achieve desired water velocity, flow heterogeneity and turbulence in the working area, the degree of isolation from atmosphere, mixing rate of solute injectate, and heating rate of the chamber. We provide proof of concept with data for in situ benthic rates (gross community production, community respiration, and NH
10.1086/684016|The floodplain
10.1899/11-112.1|Coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) transport and retention were evaluated in 14 small streams in central Massachusetts. Seven streams were within the greater Worcester metropolitan area, and 7 were within protected areas north of the city. Sites drained areas with a range of watershed and riparian disturbance levels. Surrogate materials (wooden dowels that simulated small branches and diamond-shaped acetate strips that simulated leaves) of similar size and density to natural CPOM particles were released into 50-m reaches during low-flow conditions to measure retention rates. Cobble and boulders were the most important retention structures at all sites, and debris dams were important at some sites. Acetate diamonds had significantly shorter travel distances than dowels because particle flexibility and surface area reduced particle travel distance. Fewer acetate diamonds were retained in urban than in forested streams, and debris-dam density was lower in urban than in forested streams. The amount of developed area in the watershed and vegetation characteristics of the riparian zone contributed to the difference in retention. My findings indicate that restoration and management efforts for improving particle retention in urban streams should include reach- (e.g., riparian tree density) and watershed- (e.g., % urban or impervious surface) scale features during mitigation and when evaluating the success of the mitigation effort.
10.1899/13-018.1|Whole-ecosystem metabolism is an important indicator of the role of organic matter, C cycling, and trophic structure in rivers. Ecosystem metabolism is well studied in small streams, but less is known about metabolism in large rivers. We estimated daily whole-ecosystem metabolism over 2y for 1 site each at the Mississippi and Chattahoochee Rivers in the USA to understand factors influencing temporal patterns of ecosystem metabolism. We estimated rates of gross primary production (GPP), community respiration (CR), and net ecosystem production (NEP) with a curve-fitting approach with publicly available discharge (Q), dissolved O
10.1899/12-140.1|We quantified microscale flow forces and their ability to entrain the freshwater polychaete,
10.1086/675533|According to stoichiometric principles, the ratios at which consumers recycle nutrients depend on the elemental compositions of the consumer and its food. However, nutrient assimilation efficiencies and ingestion rates can vary among consumer species and, thus, can affect the rates of consumer-mediated nutrient recycling (CNR). The grazer
10.1086/676140|Lake phytoplankton studies outnumber studies on lake periphyton by an order of magnitude, and most periphyton research has been done in streams. Most benthic algal taxa found in lakes also can be found in lotic systems, but assemblages and taxa differ in a number of ways. The ecological characteristics of some lake benthic algae reflect habitat coupling. Littoral zones (benthic areas above the light compensation depth) are areas of high productivity and biodiversity. The proportion of benthic and planktonic primary production (autotrophic structure) is a key ecosystem property. The distribution of lake benthic algae is markedly influenced by the depth gradient and substratum, and assemblages change with depth from epilithic and epiphytic rheobionts to epipsammic and epipelic limnobionts. At shallow depths, periphyton must cope with the effects of high radiation, water-level fluctuations, wave action (e.g., desiccation, ultraviolet radiation exposure, shear stress), and seasonal shifts in temperature. This situation selects for widely distributed rheophilic species. In contrast, the deeper littoral zone is stable and hosts a distinct subset of lentic periphyton. However, species experience low light intensity, which becomes increasingly severe with increasing depth, and are often threatened by eutrophication-driven increased shading by phytoplankton. Besides change across depths and substrata, adaptations to disturbance levels, competition, microdistribution of phenological stages, and physiomorphological regulation generate multiple and complex spatial patterns at different scales. Lake shores are the focus of human activities with significant consequences for periphyton. In this review, we introduce a series of 15 papers on the topic and suggest directions for future research. Overall, this special series illustrates that, despite the many important ecosystem services provided by lake benthic algae, the topic is understudied.
10.1086/676635|Riverine ecosystems are linked to their watersheds, and both land use and physiographic environmental conditions influence nutrient dynamics and water quality. We assessed aquatic nutrients and their relationship with land use and physiographic conditions at multiple spatial scales in the Brazos River watershed (Texas, USA) to examine the interactions between land use and physiography and their combined influences on riverine nutrient dynamics. Patterns in physiography and land use were highly correlated, but physiographic gradients explained 2 more of the variability in riverine nutrient concentrations than land use (25 and 12%, respectively). The response of nutrient concentrations to spatial patterns of land use and physiography depended on the specific nutrient and scale of analysis. However, elevated dissolved nutrient concentrations typically were associated with areas of higher rainfall, greater stream density, and more intensive human alteration of the catchment. In contrast, particulate nutrients were more responsive to catchment area and seasonality. Seasonality and reach-scale % rangeland had the strongest independent effects on concentrations of particulate nutrients, whereas the specific ecoregion type and catchment-scale % urban use had the strongest independent effects on dissolved nutrients. Our study highlights the importance of incorporating physiographic environmental gradients when studying the interactions between a river and its watershed, especially in large, complex watersheds or those that cross steep environmental gradients.
10.1899/12-113.1|Ecologically meaningful and scientifically defensible nutrient criteria are needed to protect the water quality of USA streams. Criteria based on our best understanding of naturally occurring nutrient concentrations would protect both water quality and aquatic biota. Previous approaches to predicting natural background nutrient concentrations have relied on some form of landscape categorization (e.g., nutrient ecoregions) to account for natural variability among water bodies. However, natural variation within these regions is so high that use of a single criterion can underprotect naturally occurring low-nutrient streams and overprotect naturally occurring high-nutrient steams. We developed Random Forest models to predict how baseflow concentrations of total P (TP) and total N (TN) vary among western USA streams in response to continuous spatial variation in nutrient sources, sinks, or other processes affecting nutrient concentrations. Both models were relatively accurate (root mean square errors <12% of the range of observations for independent validation sites) and made better predictions than previous models of natural nutrient concentrations. However, the models were not very precise (TP model:
10.1086/675225|Species-level identifications are difficult or impossible for many larval aquatic macroinvertebrates. We described the taxonomic composition of macroinvertebrate communities from 5 coastal streams in 3 neighboring catchments in southern California. We compared taxonomic identifications based on deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding (cytochrome
10.1086/680400|The invasive Asian clam,
10.1899/11-046.1|Natural temporal variation in biological assemblages is generally acknowledged, but rarely controlled for in existing bioassessment approaches. Many bioassessment methods ignore the variation of assemblage structure through time and, thus, lack a process to evaluate the effects of natural temporal variation on their outcomes. We used an 11-y data set from 24 near-pristine reference streams (validation sites) and a 5-y data set from 10 streams exposed to human disturbance (test sites) in northern Finland to examine: 1) the amount of interannual variation in macroinvertebrate communities in both types of streams measured as variation in taxonomic completeness (i.e., ratio of observed/expected taxa; O/E ratio), and 2) how temporal variability affects bioassessment outcomes. Most of the variation in O/E values was explained by stream type (validation or test). Interannual variation in O/E was low at both validation and test sites, a result supporting the assumption of high constancy of biological assemblages through time. Temporal variation in O/E at validation sites was related to climatic factors (regional precipitation) and to some local environmental variables, e.g., substratum heterogeneity. Communities in validation and test sites responded differentially to climatic variation. The low interannual variation in O/E suggests that 1-y data from reference sites can be extrapolated across years relatively safely, but climatically extreme years may be problematic. Temporal variability in O/E was low at both types of sites, but it was still high enough to result in variable ecological status assessments across years, mainly at test sites with lower O/E ratios. Thus, at test sites, use of only 1-y data may cause erroneous management decisions, and accurate assessment of the biological quality of test sites might require repeated sampling over several years.
10.1899/12-070.1|Water clarity is a strong indicator of regional water quality. Unlike other common water-quality metrics, such as chlorophyll
10.1086/677214|Resources that cross ecosystem boundaries (subsidies) are common in nature, but we have little knowledge of how such resources affect individual traits and, consequently, ecological interactions. In wetlands, leaf litter is an important resource subsidy that regulates ecological processes including the production of consumer biomass. However, litter quality is highly variable and depends on local plant species diversity. Many aquatic consumers are highly nutrient limited, so differences in nutrients and other chemical components in litter are likely to affect numerous individual traits of consumers including life-history and sexually selected traits. We tested whether the species of tree leaf litter consumed by freshwater amphipods affected survival, growth, and development of sexually selected traits. Amphipods had higher survival, attained larger body sizes, and had larger male sexual traits when reared on litter that was relatively nutritious and low in plant secondary and structural compounds. Such widespread trait changes suggest that changing forest composition could have substantial effects on wetland ecology and the evolution of sexual traits over ecological time scales.
10.1086/682422|Restoration of ecological structure and function of urban streams probably requires catchment-scale modification of drainage infrastructure, but such catchment-scale restoration attempts and their assessment are rare. They require stream ecologists to embrace the interdisciplinary challenges of studying the socialecological systems that are urban catchments. We designed and monitored a catchment-scale experiment that involved the retrofit of urban stormwater infrastructure throughout an urban catchment to restore more natural hydrology, water quality, and consequently, ecological condition in the receiving stream. We worked with government authorities and the catchment community (residents and property owners) over several years to fund and implement 289 stormwater retention systems. The length of the project allowed adaptation of the experimental design to expand the projects breadth and of retention-system design to match community needs and catchment context. Planning provisions are particularly important for such an experiment to ensure that the effect of dispersed experimental treatments is not countered by creation of new connected impervious areas elsewhere in the catchment. Catchment-scale experiments can help to transform policy and practice, but their success requires substantial effort and time to build trust among the numerous, diverse stakeholders of human-dominated urban ecosystems. Researchers need to be prepared to adopt an adaptive approach to the implementation of such experiments and to play the lead role in seeking funds for the implementation of the on-ground works necessary to underpin the experiment.
10.1086/682234|The still-growing effect of human activities on aquatic habitats has led to proportionately increasing need for restoration activities. Paradoxically, restoration actions can constitute a major threat to freshwater assemblages if they do not respect the specific nature of the target biotopes. We investigated the dynamics of dragonfly assemblages in 20 mine-subsidence pools (habitats with very high and very unpredictable dynamics). We used multivariate methods and diversity indices to compare species richness and species composition of assemblages before and after reclamation actions. During the 10 y of the study, we recorded 10 cases in which aquatic habitats disappeared completely and 6 cases of recovery and successful recolonization of aquatic pools. Disturbances caused by reclamation actions led to significant reduction of diversity and to extirpation of sensitive dragonfly species. Moreover, unlike natural disturbances, disturbances caused by reclamation activity do not support the occurrence of species associated with early successional stages. Major interventions in freshwater habitats can cause alterations that often paradoxically may result in local extinction of sensitive species rather than strengthening of existing populations.
10.1899/11-142.1|Estimating demographic values and rates for populations of cryptic stream species frequently is difficult because of prohibitively low capture probabilities. When assessing cryptic populations, researchers often are forced to make simplifying assumptions that could alter their conclusions about a population. We constructed models based on different assumptions about cohort structure, behavioral responses to capture, temporary emigration, and survival in a cryptic, larval population of red salamanders (
10.1899/11-172.1|Species traits have been identified as a component of biodiversity that is worthy of investigation as a tool for exploring ecological effects of anthropogenic disturbances. We used meta-analysis to show how selected species traits of Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera can be used to examine the ecological effects of flow and water-level regulation in freshwater ecosystems used for hydropower generation. We hypothesized that hydrological regulation would favor an opportunistic ecological strategy and bring about increased similarity in species composition across samples. We found higher reproductive capacity, faster life cycles, and a tendency toward a changed composition of functional feeding groups in lotic stonefly assemblages in response to hydrological regulation. However, the effects of hydrological regulation on mayfly species traits and lentic stonefly species traits were limited. We found lower species turnover in mayflies and stoneflies from regulated than from unregulated lotic and lentic sites, a result suggesting selection of a subset of mayflies and stoneflies from the regional species pool by flow and water-level regulation. The limited support for our predictions probably reflects the comparatively low diversity of aquatic insect species in Norwegian freshwater ecosystems for biogeographical and historical reasons, phenotypic plasticity of the insects life histories and feeding habits, low trait diversity, trade-offs among species traits in a marginal region, restrictions to trait combinations and, perhaps, random extinction of mayflies and stoneflies caused by hydrological regulation. We advocate inclusion of species-trait variables that may affect ecosystem-level ecological processes in environmental assessment studies because a better understanding of trait-mediated ecological functioning should facilitate assessment of the ecological consequences of anthropogenic perturbations of freshwater ecosystems.
10.1899/12-118.1|Fire and grazers (such as
10.1899/12-130.1|Acidification of surface water is a persistent threat to aquatic ecosystems throughout the world. Several international policies have led to successful reductions of emissions of acidifying gases, but recovery of surface-water quality has been modest. Associated biological communities continue to suffer, and research on ecosystem functional response is sparse. We investigated shifts in macroinvertebrate communities, shifts in whole-stream metabolism, whether whole-stream metabolism is as sensitive an indicator of acidification as is benthic community structure, and shifts in stream food webs in 9 small forested streams exhibiting a pH gradient from 4.0 to 7.7 and belonging to the GEOchemical MONitoring (GEOMON) Network in the Czech Republic. Acidification was related to changes in macroinvertebrate communities including reduced taxon richness and reduced Ephemeroptera family richness and abundance. Whole-stream metabolism was not significantly related to stream pH and may be less sensitive to acidification than macroinvertebrate community metrics.
10.1899/12-082.1|Despite improved understanding of how aquatic organisms are influenced by environmental conditions at multiple scales, we lack a coherent multiscale approach for establishing stream conservation priorities in active coal-mining regions. We classified watershed conditions at 3 hierarchical spatial scales, following a houseneighborhoodcommunity approach, where houses (stream segments) are embedded within neighborhoods (Hydrologic Unit Code [HUC]-12 watersheds) embedded within communities (HUC-10 watersheds). We used this information to develop a framework to prioritize restoration and protection in two HUC-8 watersheds in an intensively mined region of the central Appalachians. We used landscape data to predict current conditions (water chemistry and macroinvertebrate biotic integrity) for all stream segments with boosted regression tree (BRT) analysis. Mining intensity, distance to mining, and coal type were the dominant predictors of water quality and biological integrity. A hardnesssalinity dimension of the water-chemistry data was explained by land-cover features and stream elevation. We compiled segment-level conditions to the HUC-12 and HUC-10 watershed scales to represent aquatic resource conditions hierarchically across 3 watershed-management scales. This process enabled us to relate stream-segment watershed conditions to watershed conditions in the broader context, and ultimately to identify key protection and restoration priorities in a metacommunity context. Our hierarchical classification system explicitly identifies stream restoration and protection priorities within a HUC-12 watershed context, which ensures that the benefits of restoration will extend beyond the stream reach. Highest protection priorities are high-quality HUC-12 watersheds adjacent to low-quality HUC-12 watersheds. Highest restoration priorities are HUC-12 watersheds in poorfair condition within HUC-10 watersheds of goodexcellent condition, whereas lowest restoration priorities are isolated HUC-12 watersheds. In high-priority HUC-12 watersheds, stream segments with the highest restoration priority are those that maximize watershed-scale restorability. A similar process for classifying conditions and restoration priorities may be valuable in other heavily impacted regions where strategic approaches are needed to maximize watershed-scale recovery.
10.1086/682707|The advance of the deforestation frontier in the Amazon forest, the largest tropical forest and one of the richest ecosystems in the world, has threatened several plant and animal species. A lack of good biogeographical information of their distributions and a shortage of basic knowledge on their ecology hinder the proper evaluation of the vulnerability of those species. We used species distribution modeling techniques to fill these gaps and to estimate the vulnerability of a forest-dwelling odonate endemic from the Amazon,
10.1086/680094|The importance of riparian diversity for the functioning of headwater streams has been demonstrated repeatedly. For example, mixing litter from different riparian tree species can influence their decomposition rates, an effect that is contingent on both the litter assemblage and the detritivore community. However, the effects of mixing litter species have been studied mostly in temperate streams, and very few studies have been done in non-temperate streams. Mediterranean streams are often subjected to recurrent flow intermittency, and their riparian tree and stream detritivore communities have unique sets of species and traits, which probably influence the effects of litter mixtures on decomposition. We hypothesized that high dissimilarity in litter traits could promote effects of litter mixtures on decomposition that would be counteracted by the low abundance and small body size of detritivores in Mediterranean streams. We manipulated litter diversity and the size-class and presence/absence of detritivores in a 2
10.1086/674967|Hydrologic indices can be used in macroecological models of fish species richness. I used fish distributions and river flow records from 89 river basins in the Pacific Northwest (USA) to identify robust associations between aspects of flow and fish species richness. I calculated 148 hydrologic indices for each basin, created single-predictor regression models for each hydrologic index, and tested for significant relationships between native fish species richness and specific components of flow. I used multiple regression to test the significance and fit of models that combined hydrologic indices that were not highly collinear indices. Significant linear relationships (
10.1086/675860|An unknown green alga (order Ulvales) was a dominant macroalga in the rocky littoral zone of Lake Garda (southeastern Alps). Morphological and phylogenetic analyses indicated the alga was in the genus
10.1899/11-067.1|Adults and larvae of a new species of
10.1899/12-158.1|Life-history knowledge is central to basic and applied ecology, but recent reviews show that knowledge of life histories of many freshwater invertebrates is incomplete because of difficulty in conducting such studies or a general decline of interest in natural-history research. We review and summarize published life histories for crayfishes native to the USA and Canada. We document the rate of accumulation of crayfish life-history knowledge and biases and gaps in life-history knowledge by taxonomic group, geography, habitat preference, and conservation status. A total of 78 published studies (59 papers; several included life-history information for multiple species) covering 42 (12%) of the 347 USA and Canadian crayfishes recognized as of 2007 met our criteria for crayfish life-history studies. Life-history studies were lacking for crayfishes of conservation concern and stygobitic or primary burrowing-habitat specialists. Life-history knowledge is relatively complete for low-diversity freshwater ecoregions of northern and western North America, but lacking for high-diversity freshwater ecoregions of the southeastern USA. From 1972 to 2007, an average of 3.40 new crayfish species/y were described, whereas 0.63 species/y were added to the list of crayfishes with published life-history studies. Thus, taxonomic knowledge is expanding faster than ecological or life-history knowledge of these same species, inevitably limiting our ability to manage and conserve them. We conclude with suggestions for increasing publication of crayfish life-history studies, and priorities for regions, taxonomic groups, and life-history traits that require urgent attention. We also present a database of existing crayfish life-history studies for researchers interested in life-history questions and to provide a foundation for traits-based inquiries into crayfish macroecology and applied questions in conservation like the prediction of extinction and invasion risk.
10.1899/12-166.2|Phenotypic plasticity of ecologically relevant traits relating to physiology, behavior, morphology, and life history is widespread and can affect the ecology and evolution of organisms. In streams, phenotypic plasticity in morphology and corresponding differences in performance have been documented for fishes and, to a lesser extent, for macroinvertebrates. Morphological plasticity in crayfish has not been addressed but, if present, has the potential to interact with behaviorally plastic traits to affect performance in high water velocities. Lake and stream invasions of rusty crayfish,
10.1086/674782|Benthic macroinvertebrate community composition is used to assess wetland and stream condition and to help differentiate the effects of stressors among sites. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding has been promoted as a way to increase taxonomic resolution and, thereby, to increase the sensitivity of bioassessment metrics. We compared the ability of several commonly used bioassessment metrics calculated with data derived from morphology and from DNA barcoding to detect differences in stream condition of 6 paired sites in southern California with relatively subtle impacts to habitat. At each site, we sampled an upstream (reference) reach and a downstream (impact) reach with armored stream banks. We counted and identified 600 organisms/sample based on morphology (generally to species, but to genus for midges). We then extracted mitochondrial (mt)DNA from each individual and sequenced the 658-base pair (bp) barcoding region of the cytochrome
10.1086/675448|Native freshwater mussels can influence the aquatic N cycle, but the mechanisms and magnitude of this effect are not fully understood. We assessed the effects of
10.1899/12-168.1|Chironomid larvae possess giant polytene chromosomes. When genes on these chromosomes undergo transcription, they are visible as puffs. The nucleolar organizer region (NOR), visible as an especially large puff, shrinks when a larva is at particular developmental stages or is subjected to chemical stress. However, whether reduced NOR size is indicative of reduced growth is unknown. Therefore, we conducted 2 experiments to examine the relationship between NOR size and chironomid growth under controlled laboratory conditions. In the 1
10.1086/679223|Freshwater ecosystems are severely impacted by changes in riparian vegetation and eutrophication, but their interactive effects on litter decomposition and associated biota remain poorly understood. We placed 5 leaf species in coarse-mesh bags alone or in mixtures and immersed them in 6 low-order streams along a eutrophication gradient. Fungal and invertebrate assemblages were mainly structured by stream eutrophication. The quality of leaf species also structured fungal assemblages, whereas the number of leaf species structured invertebrate assemblages. Effects of leaf diversity on decomposition were synergistic and increased with the number of leaf species. However, the synergistic diversity effects were found only in streams with lower nutrient levels, a result suggesting that oligotrophic streams depend more than eutrophic streams on the number of plant litter species. On the other hand, leaf species identity affected leaf-litter decomposition and fungal and invertebrate biomasses on leaves. Initial leaf N concentration and leaf-litter decomposition were positively linearly related, and this relationship became stronger as eutrophication increased. This result suggests that leaf-litter decomposition depends more on the quality than the number of plant litter species in eutrophic streams. Overall, our results highlight that eutrophication modulates leaf diversity effects on leaf-litter decomposition with potential implications for stream ecosystem management.
10.1899/12-024.1|Community dynamics in temporary waters are constrained by the hydroregime (depth, timing, duration, frequency, and predictability of water in an aquatic habitat), which in turn is influenced by climatic patterns and anthropogenic use of water in the landscape. Declining rainfall in regions with a Mediterranean climate, such as southwestern Australia, has decreased the depth and duration of water in temporary wetlands, potentially altering the composition of invertebrate communities. We used a long-term data set (625y) to examine temporal changes in hydroregimes and aquatic invertebrate diversity (based on species presence/absence) at 9 seasonal wetlands. The study wetlands maintained distinctly seasonal hydroregimes, despite declining rainfall and the contraction of wetland hydroperiods. Distance-based redundancy analysis (dbRDA) indicated that conductivity, NO
10.1086/676951|An understanding of the interactions among local environmental factors (e.g., physical habitat and water quality) and aquatic assemblages is essential to conserve biodiversity in tropical and subtropical headwater streams. We evaluated the relative importance of multiple physical and chemical habitat variables that influence the richness of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) assemblages in wadeable Brazilian Cerrado (savanna) streams. We sampled macroinvertebrate assemblages and quantified physical and chemical habitat in 79 randomly selected sites in 2 Cerrado basins in southeastern Brazil. The environmental variables selected by multiple regression models (MLRs) via corrected Akaike Information Criteria (
10.1086/674704|Variation in specific conductivity and major ions in streams must be understood to assess the effects of changes in ionic strength and salinity on stream biota. I compiled data for randomly selected sites from surveys conducted from 1985 to 2009 by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). I followed EPA methods to estimate reference values for specific conductivity (60 ecoregions) and each major ion (34 ecoregions) as the 25
10.1086/684074|Intermittent streams drain much of the worlds tropical savannas, yet these vitally important stream ecosystems are among the most poorly understood components of tropical savannas. Fire is a widely used management tool in tropical savannas, but the effects of prescribed burning on savanna streams or riparian zones have not been investigated experimentally. This study was undertaken within a catchment-scale, replicated experiment to determine the effect of prescribed burning on savanna riparian zones in northern Australia. Regardless of position along the stream, burning had dramatic effects on the composition and structure of the riparian vegetation. Woody species richness and total abundance, the abundance of small- and medium-sized trees, total basal area, canopy cover, and the richness and cover of vines were reduced by burning, whereas grass cover was much higher in burned areas. Fire also reduced seed production of the dominant riparian eucalypt. This study adds greatly to our understanding of the effects of fire management on savanna riparian zones and demonstrates that they are far more fire sensitive than the surrounding savanna.
10.1086/678702|Reference Condition Approach bioassessment programs have been in place in the northern and Muskoka regions of Ontario, Canada, for many years. Assessments are carried out regularly to evaluate and monitor the effects of a variety of activities, including mining, forestry, and cottage development. These programs are run by the Co-operative Freshwater Ecology Unit (CFEU) at Laurentian University in Sudbury, Canada, and the Dorset Environmental Science Centre (DESC) in Muskoka, Canada. We applied 2 bioassessment methods used at the CFEU and DESC to 3 data sets that were subjected to simulated impact by nutrient enrichments to compare their performance with a number of other bioassessment methods. We used Assessment by Nearest Neighbour Analysis (ANNA) and a Redundancy Analysis (RDA) variation of ANNA with Test Site Analysis (TSA) to identify subsets of reference sites to compare with a given simulated impact test site based on habitat matching. We compared the benthic macroinvertebrate (BMI) communities and evaluated the differences between the validation and training sites to assess the degree of impairment. After assessing all impacted sites, we calculated Type 1 and Type 2 error rates. ANNA and RDA separated sites with different levels of simulated impact in an Australian data set of diverse benthic macroinvertebrate communities distributed along a habitat gradient. In contrast, our assessments did not perform well with 2 data sets for which the simulation did not behave as expected, perhaps because of impoverished communities.
10.1899/12-142.1|
               
10.1899/12-166.1|We used radio telemetry to track the daily movements of
10.1086/674141|Median lethal temperature (LT50) data from water-only exposures with the early life stages of freshwater mussels suggest that some species may be living near their upper thermal tolerances. However, evaluation of thermal sensitivity has never been conducted in sediment. Mussels live most of their lives burrowed in sediment, so understanding the effect of sediment on thermal sensitivity is a necessary step in evaluating the effectiveness of the water-only standard method, on which the regulatory framework for potential thermal criteria currently is based, as a test of thermal sensitivity. We developed a method for testing thermal sensitivity of juvenile mussels in sediment and used the method to assess thermal tolerance of 4 species across a range of temperatures common during summer. Stream beds may provide a thermal refuge in the wild, but we hypothesized that the presence of sediment alone does not alter thermal sensitivity. We also evaluated the effects of 2 temperature acclimation levels (22 and 27C) and 2 water levels (watered and dewatered treatments). We then compared results from the sediment tests to those conducted using the water-only standard methods. We also conducted water-only LT tests with mussel larvae (glochidia) for comparison with the juvenile life stage. We found few consistent differences in thermal tolerance between sediment and water-only treatments, between acclimation temperatures, between water-level treatments, among species, or between juvenile and glochidial life stages (LT50 range = 33.337.2C; mean = 35.6C), supporting our hypothesis that the presence of sediment alone does not alter thermal sensitivity. The method we developed has potential for evaluating the role of other stressors (e.g., contaminants) in a more natural and complex environment.
10.1899/12-002.1|Alterations to the natural flow regime affect the structure and function of rivers and wetlands and contribute to loss of biodiversity worldwide. Although the effects of flow regulation have been relatively well studied, a lack of synthesis of the ecological consequences of low flows and droughts impedes research progress and our grasp of the mechanistic effects of human-induced water reductions on riverine ecosystems. We identified 6 ecologically relevant hydrological attributes of low flow (antecedent conditions, duration, magnitude, timing and seasonality, rate of change, and frequency) that act within the temporal hierarchy of the flow regime and a spatial context. We synthesized the literature to propose 4 principles that outline the mechanistic links between these low-flow attributes and the processes and patterns within riverine ecosystems. First, low flows control the extent of physical aquatic habitat, thereby affecting the composition of biota, trophic structure, and carrying capacity. Second, low flows mediate changes in habitat conditions and water quality, which in turn, drive patterns of distribution and recruitment of biota. Third, low flows affect sources and exchange of material and energy in riverine ecosystems, thereby affecting ecosystem production and biotic composition. Last, low flows restrict connectivity and diversity of habitat, thereby increasing the importance of refugia and driving multiscale patterns in biotic diversity. These principles do not operate in isolation, and many of the ecological pathways that are affected by low flows are likely to overlap or occur simultaneously, potentially resulting in synergistic and complex effects. Last, we outlined major human-induced threats to low-flow hydrology and how they act upon the ecologically relevant hydrological attributes of low flow to affect potential changes in riverine ecosystem integrity. The mechanistic links described in this synthesis can be used to develop and test hypotheses of low-flow hydrologicalecological response relationships in a causeeffect framework that will have value for both research and river flow management. Continued experimental research and ongoing consolidation of ecological information will improve our understanding and ability to predict consequences of low-flow alteration on river, floodplain, and estuarine ecosystems.
10.1086/679665|
               
10.1086/676313|Epipelic microphototrophs perform a range of ecosystem functions including biostabilization of sediments, regulation of benthiclimnetic nutrient cycling, and primary production. This review summarizes the most recent research of lake/pond phototrophic epipelic taxa and highlights the importance of an approach to identifying these algae that combines classic and modern methods, particularly metagenomics and sequencing. The contribution of true epipelic chlorophyll
10.1086/677215|Characterizing biologically relevant stream disturbance regimes is challenging, but necessary to answer questions about disturbance effects on ecological processes. No universally accepted approach exists for characterizing stream disturbance regimes. Our goal was to evaluate approaches that can be applied to test effects of disturbance on benthic organisms. We defined disturbance as events or environmental conditions caused by changes in stream discharge that affect the stability or habitability of the stream bed. We used several metrics to describe disturbance regimes of mountain streams that were not permanently gauged in 1 catchment, and considered the trade-off between effort required to obtain the data and the quality of information gained. We used an innovative photographic method to assess substrate particle movement empirically as a benchmark for comparison to other indicators of channel stability and to metrics describing hydrologic variability relevant to streambed stability. We used a model selection procedure to choose the best combination of individual variables to explain variation in substrate particle movement and included those variables in a multivariate axis of disturbance that can be applied to evaluate effects of disturbance on benthic organisms. Individual variables with the highest explanatory power were maximum daily increase in discharge and the Pfankuch index of channel stability. Substrate particle size and stream size (drainage basin area) were related to the multivariate index of disturbance, but channel gradient was not. Protocols used to measure substrate stability and to obtain the multivariate index of disturbance were labor intensive, but our analyses indicate it may be reasonable to use more easily measured variables (e.g., Pfankuch index) to estimate disturbance to benthic organisms at local scales, although explanatory power may be reduced. Our analyses provide a menu of options to estimate variation in local disturbance regimes of ungauged mountain streams that may not be adequately explained by extrapolation from hydrographs of gauged streams.
10.1086/675727|Benthic diatom assemblages from 179 streams and 98 lakes in Sweden were compared to identify differences in taxonomic composition, growth form, cell size, diversity and richness, and ultimately, to assess the effects of differences between streams and lakes on assessments. Streams and lakes with similar environmental background variables were chosen to avoid an overriding effect of factors, such as nutrients and pH, on taxonomic composition. Generic and species composition differed significantly between streams and lakes. Richness was significantly higher in lakes than in streams, and the average diatom cell was significantly longer in streams than in lakes. No other measures analyzed differed significantly. Diatom assemblages in both habitats were related to pH and nutrients, and the diatom indices studied responded similarly to the main environmental gradients in both habitats. Thus, despite differences in taxonomic composition between streams and lakes, the resulting diatom assemblages are similar, enabling use of the same diatom indices in both habitats.
10.1899/11-017.1|Genus-specific and total secondary production of a nonbiting midge assemblage (Chironomidae) were estimated along a hyporheic gradient (surface to 4050-cm depth) in 2 contrasting stream types and 3 habitat types in north-central Alabama to assess the extent of the variation within a river basin. Total production (surface + hyporheic) was much higher in a gravelcobble habitat (68gm
10.1086/680987|European frogbit (
10.1086/681302|Balancing the freshwater needs of humans and ecosystems is a fundamental challenge for the management of rivers worldwide. River regulation and water extraction can affect all components of the natural flow regime, yet few studies have investigated the effects on the low-flow end of the hydrograph. Low-flow periods are hydrologically distinctive and ecologically important, varying in nature among climatic zones. Tropical savannah rivers are characterized by highly seasonal and predictable flow regimes, but with high interannual variation in the magnitude, timing, and duration of low flows. Many tropical savannah rivers are relatively intact, especially in northern Australia, but many are now receiving increasing attention for water-resource development through surface- and groundwater extraction. We identified the hydroecological effects of water extraction on 3 phases of the seasonal flow regime: the wetdry transition, dry season, and drywet season transition for perennial and intermittent rivers in tropical savannah climates. We propose a conceptual model and 7 predictions that describe the ecological implications of dry-season water extraction in tropical savannah river systems worldwide. The predictions address: 1) connectivity, 2) availability of in-stream habitat, 3) dry-season persistence of in-channel refugia, 4) water quality during drywet and wetdry transition periods, 5) decoupling of wet- and dry-season flows, and the cumulative effects on 6) groundwater-dependent species and 7) whole-ecosystem shifts. We used northern Australia as a case study to review the current level of evidence in support of these predictions and their potential ecological consequences, and used this review to propose key priorities for future research that are globally applicable.
10.1086/681095|Abstract: In terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, organisms directly affect nutrient storage and cycling by sequestering nutrients via growth and remineralizing nutrients via excretion and egestion. Therefore, species introductions and extirpations can profoundly affect nutrient storage and remineralization rates, and present a challenge for conserving ecosystem function in fresh waters. The literature of consumer-driven nutrient dynamics is growing rapidly, but studies of consumer effects on nutrient storage and remineralization across species and among ecosystems are limited. We compared the effects of 3 grazing taxa, nonnative armored catfish in Mexican streams, native mussels in Oklahoma streams, and native tadpoles in Panamanian streams, on nutrient storage and remineralization. We examined interactions among organismal stoichiometry and biomass, nutrient storage, remineralization rates, and ecosystem size across these 3 groups following species decline (tadpoles and mussels) or introduction (armored catfish) to gain a better understanding of organism-specific effects on nutrient dynamics among freshwater ecosystems. Collectively, our results suggest that the ecosystem-level effect of consumer-driven nutrient dynamics is strongly influenced by environmental variables and is taxon specific. Major changes in biomass of stoichiometrically distinctive organisms can lead to subsequent changes in the flux and storage of elements in an ecosystem, but the overall effect of aquatic animals on nutrient dynamics also is determined by discharge and nutrient-limitation patterns in streams and rivers.
10.1086/678465|Accurate and precise estimates of relationships between stressors and environmental responses can inform management decisions most usefully when models can be easily interpreted. Here, we describe an approach for classifying lakes and reservoirs that can improve estimates of the relationships between total P (TP) and chlorophyll
10.1086/675931|The deep littoral zone hosts a unique but understudied subset of lake periphyton. We investigated epilithic cyanoprokaryotes in a carbonate meromictic lake (Lake Tovel, southeastern Alps) to obtain information on 2 poorly known, deep-dwelling coccoid species (one new to science) and to analyze their distribution in light of the current understanding of the depth distribution of lake periphyton. Cyanoprokaryotes in Lake Tovel have distinct depth distributions among 3 zones: shallow (04 m), mid-depth (612 m), and deep (1524 m). The mid-depth and deep zones are characterized by high stability with favorable growth conditions and by severe light limitation, respectively. Both zones have unique taxa that frequently possess colorless sheaths or pinkredviolet cell contents. The 2 most poorly known cyanoprokaryotes found in Lake Tovel (both pinkredviolet) were a species of
10.1899/11-026.1|Macroinvertebrate species composition data are often expressed as proportional abundances when assessing water-quality conditions or responses to disturbance. Proportional abundances represent the probability of belonging to one of many mutually exclusive and exhaustive groups (taxa). Proportional abundances have some unique properties that must be considered when analyzing these data: 1) the probabilities of group membership must sum to 1 and 2) a change in any 1 group affects all other groups. We used multinomial regressions to analyze changes in proportional abundances along gradients of urbanization in 9 metropolitan areas across the USA. Multinomial regression can be used to address multiple nonlinear responses simultaneously, whereas simple linear regressions must be used to analyze linear or polynomial responses of each group independently. We established that: 1) abundance ratios of tolerant and moderately tolerant groups responded consistently (35% increase in the ratios for every 1% increase in developed land cover in the watershed) across the urban gradient, 2) functional groups did not change significantly, and 3) ratios based on assemblage metrics were better indicators of environmental disturbance than ratios based on individual taxa. Multinomial regression, with its flexible model form, can capture patterns of species succession along a resource or stressor gradient. Our results also demonstrate that users of multinomial regression may encounter numerical problems with rare taxa, especially when these taxa have a complete separation along the gradient. Consequently, multinomial regressions are more suitable for analyzing aggregations of taxa or taxon traits.
10.1899/13-036.1|Competitive exclusion is a commonly cited mechanism of species replacement in nonindigenous crayfish introductions. However, even when it seems highly plausible, it may not be the driving mechanism. We sought to identify competition-driven habitat shifts in populations of native St Francis River crayfish
10.1086/678228|The nearshore zones of the Great Lakes provide essential habitat for biota and are perhaps the region of the lakes most susceptible to human impacts. The objective of our study was to develop a fish habitat classification for the nearshore zone of Lake Ontario based on physical characteristics of that zone, land cover in the surrounding watershed, and fish community patterns. Nearly 80% of the spatial variation in fish community data was described by 2 physical variables (average fetch and bathymetric slope of the nearshore zone) and 2 land-cover variables (urban/industrial development and mixed forest cover) in adjacent watersheds. These variables are likely to be surrogates for other conditions in the nearshore, such as wave action, circulation, vegetation, and water quality. A 12-group fish habitat classification was developed from those variables. Validation and significance tests identified similarities and differences among the fish communities in the classes and indicated that the number of classes should be collapsed to 3: exposed, sheltered, and developed/urbanized. In general, the western basin of the lake was developed, the central region was exposed, and the eastern region of the lake was a mix of exposed and sheltered classes. These results highlight that even in lakes as large as Lake Ontario, the nearshore fish community is influenced by watershed land cover, and emphasize that management or restoration of the nearshore ecosystem in lakes will require integration of aquatic, watershed, and land-cover management.
10.1899/11-065.1|Spring habitats are highly diverse and have a mosaic microhabitat structure. They are endangered by diffuse exploitation as drinking-water resources, an impact likely to increase with climate change. Diatoms were sampled from stones and bryophytes in 110 nonthermal, near-natural springs in the southeastern Alps (Trentino) and 16 carbonate springs in the Dolomiti Bellunesi National Park. Fuzzy clustering identified 6 assemblages in the main types of springs. Carbonate rheocrenes hosted
10.1086/681252|Urbanization is occurring rapidly in southeastern Asia where streams are increasingly pressured. We assessed the ecological integrity of Ampang River in Kuala Lumpur by comparing structural and functional measures between forested and urban sites. We assessed 4 forested, 1 intermediate (deforested, not channelized), and 5 urban, channelized sites. Urbanization altered substrate (concrete at urban sites), riparian vegetation, light, temperature, O
10.1899/13-077.1|The stone crayfish,
10.1899/11-113.1|Fish-mediated nutrient recycling influences nutrient dynamics in stream ecosystems, but its consequences for smaller-scale microbial processes in benthic habitats are not well understood. We quantified the effect of nutrient recycling by the grazing fish,
10.1899/12-028.1|Freshwater mussels (Bivalvia:Unionidae) are among the most imperiled organisms in North America. Information on the spatial scale of reproduction and population connectivity will better enable mussel conservation programs to sustain long-term population viability, particularly restocking and recovery programs. Here we used genetic methods to characterize population structure, dispersal potential, and reproductive strategies in the freshwater mussel
10.1086/683606|Biological invasions impose severe threats to biodiversity, and the extent of this phenomenon is predicted to intensify under climate warming. Only a few investigators have examined how temperature interacts with other environmental variables to affect competition between native and invasive species.
10.1086/679756|We propose the Stream Biome Gradient Concept as a way to predict macroscale biological patterns in streams. This concept is based on the hypothesis that many abiotic and biotic features of streams change predictably along climate (temperature and precipitation) gradients because of direct influences of climate on hydrology, geomorphology, and interactions mediated by terrestrial vegetation. The Stream Biome Gradient Concept generates testable hypotheses related to continental variation among streams worldwide and allows aquatic scientists to understand how results from one biome might apply to a less-studied biome. Some predicted factors change monotonically across the biome/climate gradients, whereas others have maxima or minima in the central portion of the gradient. For example, predictions across the gradient from drier deserts through grasslands to wetter forests include more permanent flow, less bare ground, lower erosion and sediment transport rates, decreased importance of autochthonous C inputs to food webs, and greater stream animal species richness. In contrast, effects of large ungulate grazers on streams are expected to be greater in grasslands than in forests or deserts, and fire is expected to have weaker effects in grassland streams than in desert and forest streams along biome gradients with changing precipitation and constant latitude or elevation. Understanding historic patterns among biomes can help describe the evolutionary template at relevant biogeographic scales, can be used to broaden other conceptual models of stream ecology, and could lead to better management and conservation across the broadest scales.
10.1086/683484|Smoldering fires in organic soils have negative effects on air quality and motorist safety as well as global implications from their release of large quantities of refractory C. However, the ecological implications of their occurrence are relatively unexplored despite their potential importance to the management of wetland ecosystems. We developed a conceptual model of the ecohydrologic implications of peat-consuming fires that explores the interactive effects of fire, hydrology, and C dynamics on hydrology. We modify an existing wetland hydrology model parameterized with climate, soil, and spatial data from a low-relief region in southern Florida (USA) to explore hypothesized pyrogeomorphic changes to upland water table elevation, wetland inundation (depth and hydroperiod), and groundwater exchange as a function of fire severity (area and depth of burn). Smoldering fires increase hydroperiod and storage in organic soils in burned wetlands by changing soil elevation. After fire, negative feedbacks to fire occurrence are likely because of increased hydroperiods in burned areas. However, adjacent, unburned wetland areas and uplands may experience drier conditions that increase fire frequency in distal locations. Simulation results indicate that increasing the area of soil combustion or depth of burn increases wetland hydroperiod, flooding depths, and groundwater exchange between wetlands and surrounding uplands. Additional field data characterizing fire effects on organic soil elevations and wetland bathymetry are needed, but the model supports our hypothesis about the effects of soil-consuming fires on hydrology and habitat, and these results will inform future work on the ecological role of peat-consuming fires.
10.1899/12-116.1|We compared hydrological environments and macroinvertebrate communities in 1
10.1086/679595|Small streams and their adjacent riparian zones contribute disproportionately to the processing and transport of C compared to the catchment area and, thereby, may alter the flux of dissolved organic C (DOC) from aquatic ecosystems. We examined the factors influencing C uptake and CO
10.1899/12-105.1|Seasonal variation in macroinvertebrate assemblages usually is attributed to environmental variability, but this relationship is unclear in temporary ponds because they are highly dynamic across time. We assessed the influence of environmental variables and biotic interactions on macroinvertebrate community structure in 22 temporary ponds sampled monthly over 2 successive years that differed in rainfall. We hypothesized that abiotic and biotic variables would have different influences on macroinvertebrates having different dispersal abilities (capable of dispersal or not) and dietary modes (predaceous or not). Constrained Analysis of Principal Coordinates showed mainly seasonal influences on community assembly. During the filling phase, water-column total P (TP) and pH were important, whereas maximum depth, pH, electrical conductivity, and dissolved O
10.1899/11-031.1|Riparian buffers provide improved protection for water quality and biota, and narrow, fixed-width buffers of native vegetation along streams have been used to mitigate the effects of forest harvest at least since the 1960s. The practice of leaving unmanaged strips of vegetation along water courses in agricultural lands had been used before the 1960s in southern Europe and in eastern North America, but the scientific basis for leaving riparian buffers on forested lands came from observations in the coastal temperate rainforests of western North America. Those observations often were applied to other forested landscapes without further considerations. Fixed-width buffers are administratively simple to implement and assess, and have come to be the norm for streamside protection from forestry. Most guidelines for streamside protection allow some local modification for site and watershed-scale considerations, but frequently, the option to deviate from fixed-width buffers is not exercised because of uncertainty about outcomes. Few experiments have been done to test the efficacy of buffers of a particular width or of site- or landscape-specific modifications.
10.1899/11-059.1|Despite extensive research on the link between disturbance and diversity in ecology and several eloquent models to describe the relationship, a universally applicable model remains elusive. However, most investigations of the diversitydisturbance relationship have been limited in spatial coverage. Recent theoretical and conceptual advances in macroecology suggest that such spatially constrained studies may limit interpretation. To explore the effect of geographic location on the disturbancediversity relationship, we examined invertebrate assemblages in streams of northern Spain and New Zealand (NZ) and in multiple regions within NZ. Habitat characteristics were similar across all sites and locations, except that undisturbed sites (springbrooks) differed from disturbed sites (rhithral streams) by having constant thermal and hydrologic regimes. The resource base and the density of invertebrates were greater in the more-stable habitats in all regions. However, patterns of invertebrate species richness differed markedly between locations in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. Springbrooks in all regions within NZ had greater richness than rhithral streams. In contrast, springbrooks in Spain had considerably lower species richness than rhithral streams. Thus, low hydrological disturbance in Spain yielded low diversity, whereas in NZ it yielded high diversity. Amphipoda dominated the springbrook faunas in Spain, whereas insects dominated in NZ. Thus, differences in the diversity patterns between Spain and NZ are potentially related to phylogenetic differences or environmental constraints on life-history cues. A universal model to link disturbance and diversity is more likely to be successful if it incorporates life-history traits rather than morphological traits.
10.1086/683120|Litter breakdown is a pivotal ecosystem function in headwater streams, where it fuels food webs and controls C flux. Breakdown rates depend on environmental characteristics and can display strong seasonal variation, particularly in intermittent streams. To identify the environmental factors driving seasonality of litter breakdown, we ran 5 breakdown experiments with poplar leaves during the wet phase (NovemberAugust) in a 3
10.1086/678701|The status of biological assemblages is often inferred by comparing observational assemblage data with reference data generated by a predictive model. Limiting environmental difference analysis (LEDA) applies the ecological concepts of distance decay of similarity and limiting factor theory to model reference data by extrapolation from samples collected at reference sites. I applied LEDA modeling to data sets from the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), Laurentian Great Lakes (GL), and Canadian Yukon Territory (YT) to test its accuracy and precision in predicting the composition of benthic macroinvertebrate samples from reference sites, and its specificity and sensitivity in detecting mathematically simulated human impacts on sample composition. LEDA models were significantly and substantially more accurate than null models for all 3 data sets, but not significantly more precise. They mostly assessed unimpacted samples correctly but seldom detected mild simulated impacts. However, they often detected moderate and usually detected severe impacts. Model performance for the test data sets probably was constrained by limitations of the environmental predictor variables and low taxonomic richness in many samples. The simulated impacts provided insight into model behavior but were limited in their scope and realism. I suggest that future simulations should separately test detection of different kinds of assemblage change, not only different intensities, and should address the consequences of human alteration of predictor variables.
10.1086/674360|Organisms often experience trade-offs between behaviors necessary for food acquisition and predator avoidance. In mesocosms and microcosms, we manipulated the risk and resource environments of grazing mayflies (
10.1086/680962|Government agencies frequently conduct benthic macroinvertebrate surveys for bioassessment at large spatial scales in a variety of aquatic habitats, including large rivers. However, these data are rarely used by investigators outside the specific regulatory agency. We used data from 150 benthic macroinvertebrate samples collected over a period of 20 y from 10 locations in a large, shallow river system (the Susquehanna River and 2 major tributaries) by personnel in 4 government agencies to explore broad spatial and temporal patterns in benthic assemblages. We standardized sample size and taxonomy to account for differences in sampling, processing, and identification methods among agencies. Invertebrate assemblages were dominated by mayflies and caddisflies (4683%). Percent Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera (EPT) and standard diversity measures were inversely correlated, indicating that traditional macroinvertebrate Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) approaches might not be applicable to large rivers. These data showed differences in assemblage composition across sub-basins and revealed effects of the spread of invasive Asian clams and of black fly management on benthic assemblage structure in the river. Large-river invertebrates are understudied and, even with challenges of combining data sets from multiple agencies, we showed the potential utility of applying data from a large river system to reveal ecological patterns across space and time.
10.1086/675932|The filamentous cyanobacterium
10.1899/12-145.1|Presence/absence sampling designs are commonly used approaches for documenting the occurrence of benthic invertebrates, but these methods often provide biased indices of occupancy or abundance. Unionids are particularly susceptible to bias associated with nondetection because of their generally low abundance and burrowing behavior. We present a case study in which we used an occupancy-modeling approach that incorporates estimation of detection probability to assess the occurrence of unionids at 39 locations along a 119-km reach of Flint River, Georgia. We fitted models relating site- and reach-level variables to detection and occupancy for 3 species of conservation concern and contrasted inferences drawn between models accounting for variable imperfect detection and models assuming constant imperfect detection. We collected 20 unionid species among 39 sites. Among species, detection probabilities averaged 0.25 and ranged from 0.01 to 0.69, and estimated occupancy averaged 0.56 and ranged from 0.03 to 1.00. Estimated occupancy across all species was, on average, 25.78% greater than nave occupancy (i.e., proportion of sites without accounting for incomplete detection). Detection probabilities varied by species, time, macrohabitat, and searcher experience. Inferences regarding factors affecting species occupancy differed among models contrasting detection as variable or constant but imperfect. The occupancy-modeling approach was a useful and efficient method to assess the distribution and habitat relationships of unionids in the lower Flint River. We think that detection probability is an underused but necessary parameter that should be evaluated during sampling to provide a measure of confidence in benthic invertebrate data and to account for potential sources of bias.
10.1899/11-150.1|Much is known about invertebrate community traits in basins across Europe, but no comprehensive description of traits exists for the continental US. Little is known about the trait composition of invertebrates in reference or least-disturbed basins of the US, how trait composition varies among ecoregions, or how consistently traits respond to land use. These elements are essential to development of trait-based tools for conservation and assessment of biological integrity. We compared invertebrate traits of least-disturbed basins among ecoregions of the US. Benthic invertebrate data (presence/absence) from 1987 basins were translated into 56 binary traits (e.g., bivoltine, clinger). Basins were classified as least-disturbed, agricultural, or urban, and grouped into 9 ecoregions. Landuse, climatic, physiographic, and hydrologic data were used to describe ecoregions and to evaluate least-disturbed basin quality. The unique habitat template of each ecoregion selected for trait compositions in least-disturbed basins that differed among ecoregions. Among the traits examined, life-history (e.g., voltinism, development) and ecological traits (e.g., rheophily, thermal preference) differed most among ecoregions. Agricultural and urban land uses selected for trait compositions that differed from least-disturbed, but the extent of the differences depended on ecoregion and quality of the least-disturbed basins. No trait compositions unique to specific land uses were found. However, a
10.1086/676315|Periphyton and phytoplankton contribute to the base of lake food webs, and both groups of microalgae are influenced by resources and physical forcing. Spatial variation in light availability interacts with the physical dynamics of the water column to create predictable depth gradients in resources and disturbance that may differentially affect periphyton vs phytoplankton. We characterized the depth distribution of chlorophyll and productivity of periphyton on sediments (epipelon) and phytoplankton in the euphotic zones of 13 oligomesotrophic lakes that span a large size gradient (0.01732,600 km
10.1086/681086|Urbanization alters water physical and chemical variables and may affect leaf-litter breakdown in streams. Higher temperature and nutrient inputs in urban streams can stimulate microbial biomass, which can increase leaf-litter breakdown rates over rates in nonurban streams. On the other hand, urbanization can reduce leaf-litter breakdown rates by eliminating shredders. We evaluated physical, chemical, and biological factors that may directly and indirectly affect leaf-litter breakdown of
10.1086/681917|Stream networks are vulnerable to fragmentation. Anthropogenic structures, such as dams and culverts, can isolate stream branches, potentially interrupting longitudinal gradients of fish distribution. The effect of single barriers is well documented, but the effect of multiple barriers in small streams is not as well characterized. We used a landscape approach and spatially continuous sampling across 2 y to examine the influence of anthropogenic structures on fish distributions in an urban stream network. After accounting for spatial autocorrelation, we found higher Coastal Cutthroat Trout (
10.1899/12-160.1|Burrowing crayfish are potentially important ecological links between terrestrial and aquatic systems, but little is known about what drives their local distribution patterns. We investigated potential mechanisms underlying the patchy local distribution of the devil crayfish (
10.1899/12-203.1|Nonnative crayfish have been widely introduced and are a major threat to freshwater biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. Despite documentation of the ecological effects of nonnative crayfish from >3 decades of case studies, no comprehensive synthesis has been done to test quantitatively for their general or species-specific effects on recipient ecosystems. We provide the first global meta-analysis of the ecological effects of nonnative crayfish under experimental settings to compare effects among species and across levels of ecological organization. Our meta-analysis revealed strong, but variable, negative ecological impacts of nonnative crayfish with strikingly consistent effects among introduced species. In experimental settings, nonnative crayfish generally affect all levels of freshwater food webs. Nonnative crayfish reduce the abundance of basal resources like aquatic macrophytes, prey on invertebrates like snails and mayflies, and reduce abundances and growth of amphibians and fish, but they do not consistently increase algal biomass. Nonnative crayfish tend to have larger positive effects on growth of algae and larger negative effects on invertebrates and fish than native crayfish, but effect sizes vary considerably. Our study supports the assessment of crayfish as strong interactors in food webs that have significant effects across native taxa via polytrophic, generalist feeding habits. Nonnative crayfish species identity may be less important than extrinsic attributes of the recipient ecosystems in determining effects of nonnative crayfish. We identify some understudied and emerging nonnative crayfish that should be studied further and suggest expanding research to encompass more comparisons of native vs nonnative crayfish and different geographic regions. The consistent and general negative effects of nonnative crayfish warrant efforts to discourage their introduction beyond native ranges.
10.1086/683255|Microbial decomposers and metazoan detritivores rely on and affect processing rates of detrital C in streams. Nutrient enrichment can affect the biomass of both groups, but we lack a quantitative understanding of how these groups affect breakdown rates of C under elevated nutrient conditions. We quantified the relative contribution of decomposers (fungi, bacteria) and detritivores (shredders) to breakdown rates in a reference vs a nutrient-enriched stream. We measured breakdown rates and litter-associated shredder, fungal, and bacterial biomass on
10.1086/674577|Local aggregations of unionoids (mussel beds) represent subpopulations constituting a riverine meta-population and are presumed to be linked by dispersal of parasitic mussel larvae (glochidia) on host fishes. We examined movement patterns of Masu Salmon (
10.1899/11-124.1|Trophic interactions can influence the flux of energy and nutrients between donor and recipient ecosystems, thereby altering recipient food webs and communities. We investigated the potential for anadromous alewife to influence filter-feeding insects in lake outflow streams by altering seston and zooplankton export from lakes to streams through size-selective consumption of zooplankton in lakes. We compared spring and summer zooplankton biomass and body size and seston concentration in 6 lakes and their respective outflow streams (3 with alewife access, 3 without alewife access) in Maine, USA. The contribution of seston particles 500-m and mean pelagic zooplankton size decreased from spring to summer in alewife lakes, but not in lakes without alewife. However, we found no seasonal change in zooplankton body size and seston 500-m in the outflow streams of alewife lakes. Furthermore, zooplankton biomass and seston concentration differed between lakes and streams, a result indicating the influence of additional factors on seston movement from lakes to streams. Last, we found no relationship between filter-feeder biomass or community structure and seston quantity, a result indicating that stream communities probably were not strongly regulated by seston availability. Our results illustrate that strong trophic interactions may not be propagated from lakes to streams and suggest the importance of boundaries in modulating the extent to which trophic interactions in one ecosystem can influence the flow of energy to adjacent ecosystems.
10.1086/683370|Droughts, fires, and floods are natural disturbances influencing aquatic ecosystems. If drought is accompanied by fires, and if fires are closely followed by floods, teasing apart their distinctive and potentially interactive responses can be difficult. We compared the responses of macroinvertebrate communities to fire via comparisons of streams in burned and unburned catchments in 3 fire-prone biomes that differ biogeographically and climatically (northwestern Mediterranean, southeastern Australia, and northwestern intermountain USA). The responses of macroinvertebrate communities in streams in burned catchments were similar in all biogeographic regions, but the magnitude of these responses varied. Fire combined with high seasonal stream flows, flooding, or drought was associated with reduced measures of taxonomic richness and increased abundance, especially of
10.1899/12-074.1|Riparian-zone vegetation can influence terrestrial and aquatic food webs through variation in the amount, timing, and nutritional content of leaf and other litter inputs. We investigated how riparian-forest community composition, understory density, and lateral slope shaped vertical and lateral litter inputs to 16 streams in the Oregon Coast Range. Riparian forests dominated by deciduous red alder delivered greater annual vertical litter inputs to streams (504gm
10.1899/11-038.1|We analyzed responses of chironomid (Diptera:Chironomidae) communities to environmental factors in 124 natural, moderately, and highly disturbed springs in the Italian Prealps and Alps to investigate environmental factors influencing species distribution in springs and to evaluate chironomids as bioindicators of spring water quality. Self-Organizing Map analysis found differences among spring types and effects of anthropogenic pressures. Natural or little-disturbed springs at high altitude with low temperature, low conductivity, and high current velocity differed from lowland springs, including highly disturbed ones, with low current velocity and higher temperature, conductivity, and nutrient concentrations. Cold stenothermal intolerant species were clustered in the 1
10.1899/12-202.1|Terrestrial sources of dissolved organic C (DOC) provide energy for stream microbial heterotrophs. Hydrologic conditions alter flow paths to the stream and influence terrestrial source quantity and quality. We used bioreactors to measure biodegradable DOC (BDOC) in water from soils, shallow wells, and spring seeps under baseflow conditions, overland flow during storms, and a stream during base flow and storm flow. Stream DOC concentrations ranged from 0.7 to 15.5mg C/L and total BDOC ranged from 0.1 to 8.7mg C/L. Under baseflow conditions, DOC was generally <2mg C/L and BDOC was <0.7mg C/L. BDOC made up 37.8% of DOC (8.2% labile and 29.6% semilabile constituents) and most DOC (62.2%) was recalcitrant. Storms increased DOC concentrations 6- to 12-fold and selectively mobilized BDOC increasing concentrations 8- to 27-fold. Labile and semilabile constituents increased 2-fold to 17.3% and 55.4%, respectively, so that storm flow DOC was largely biodegradable (73%). Terrestrial DOC concentrations declined from 2.15mg C/L in soil water to 1.78mg C/L in shallow wells to 1.26mg C/L in spring seeps, and labile BDOC concentrations declined from 0.1mg C/L in soil water to 0.04mg C/L in shallow wells but increased to 0.13mg C/L in spring seeps. Overland flow waters had elevated DOC (11.0mg C/L) and labile BDOC (1.7mg C/L) concentrations. Peak storm concentrations for 2 biological reactivity classes were coincident during 2 storms but divergent during another storm, suggesting temporal variation in hydrologic pathways. Our results demonstrate that storms deliver increased BDOC loads to a headwater stream and reveal the temporal variability of labile and semilabile BDOC constituents. Storms increase stream depth and velocity, resulting in increased uptake lengths for BDOC constituents, exporting them from the basin and probably providing a downstream subsidy.
10.1086/682571|Current legislation and ecological risk assessment fails to protect aquatic biodiversity at low levels of contaminants. We addressed 3 topics embedded in general stress ecology and evolutionary ecology that are relevant to arrive at a better evaluation of the risk of low contaminant levels in aquatic systems: 1) delayed effects of contaminants, 2) interactions between contaminants and biotic interactors, and 3) vulnerability to contaminants under global warming. We developed these topics by capitalizing on the key insights obtained using damselflies as model organisms. First, delayed contaminant effects on important fitness-related effects exist during the larval stage and after metamorphosis in the adult stage. Second, synergistic interactions of contaminants with bacteria and predation risk have been demonstrated, and we present advances in the mechanistic understanding of these synergisms with biotic interactors. Third, we illustrate the strength of assessing the effect of contaminants under global warming using a space-for-time substitution approach and the need to consider temperature extremes. These studies using damselflies as model organisms highlight the relevance of considering contaminant effects after the exposure period and in the presence of natural stressors, such as predation risk and higher temperatures. They further highlight the need for spatially explicit risk-assessment and conservation tools. These insights are relevant for most aquatic taxa. Indeed most aquatic taxa have a complex life cycle, are strongly affected by predation risk and by warming, and show latitudinal gradients. Better integration of these topics in ecological risk assessment will be a major challenge for both scientists and policy makers, but of crucial importance to preserve aquatic biodiversity.
10.1086/684076|The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and US Army Corps of Engineers have promulgated a definitional rule to clarify the scope of waters of the United States protected under the Clean Water Act (CWA). The Clean Water Rule, published in June 2015, defines 8 categories of waters for jurisdiction and expressly excludes certain features from jurisdiction, based on law, science, public input, and 40+ y of experience implementing the CWA. It also defines terms used in regulation including, for the first time, tributary, neighboring, and significant nexus. Much of the scientific basis for this rule is contained in a report titled Connectivity of Streams and Wetlands to Downstream Waters: A Review and Synthesis of the Scientific Evidence developed by EPAs Office of Research and Development to inform the rulemaking process. As a scientific review, the report does not consider or set forth legal standards for CWA jurisdiction. Rather, it summarizes current scientific understanding of the connections and functions by which small or temporary streams, nontidal wetlands, and other source waters, singly or in aggregate, exert a strong influence on the chemical, physical, or biological integrity of waters protected by the CWA. It is the result of a multiyear collaboration by scientists and nonscientists working across disciplinary and organizational boundaries to synthesize the best available science in response to evolving policy needs. Here I summarize the major conclusions from the report, the influence of science on policy decisions in the final rule, and some challenges of synthesizing, interpreting, reviewing, and communicating the large body of scientific evidence needed for development of this rule.
10.1899/12-084.1|Research on how N is retained and removed from stream networks has focused on microbial metabolic pathways, such as denitrification. An alternative pathway for N to escape streams is in the form of emerging aquatic insects, and unlike denitrification, previous studies suggest that this pathway may be stimulated by increased availability of P. We tested the hypothesis that the flux of N exported from streams through insect emergence increases relative to flux through denitrification with increasing levels of stream P. We measured emergence and denitrification rates at 7 lowland stream sites in Costa Rica that differ in dissolved P levels and substrate characteristics. Emergence N flux ranged from 2.0 to 16.3% of measured denitrification rates and was not related to any measured physical or chemical variables. Sediment redox conditions were the best predictor of denitrification rates. Our emergence results suggest that most invertebrate biomass production in these streams is consumed by in-stream predators, keeping this N in the stream ecosystem. Nevertheless, our findings indicate that in streams with low denitrification rates, emergence should be considered as an additional pathway of N removal from stream ecosystems.
10.1899/10-127.1|The structure (biomass, species or Operational Taxonomic Unit [OUT] composition) and function (photosynthetic performance) of autotrophic and heterotrophic biofilm communities were investigated along a chemical gradient created downstream of a small Fe spring (Llmena watershed, Girona, northeastern Spain). Diatom species composition, diatom abundance, and algal biomass (measured as basal fluorescence [Fo]) followed the chemical gradient. Site ordination scores based on the photosynthetic performance of biofilms (measured as effective quantum yield [Yeff] and photosynthesisirradiance curve parameters) and on bacterial densities and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) data (OTUs for Fungi and Bacteria) were not linearly related to the chemical gradient. The extreme chemical environment selected for low-productivity, stress-tolerant community characterized by low algal biomass, absence of cyanobacteria, and dominance of the diatom taxon
10.1086/682688|Species distribution models (SDMs) can be used to answer a variety of questions about Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies) distributions because locality data for species are readily available. We provide an overview of SDMs and review 30 studies that have used SDMs to examine factors governing odonate distributions in current and projected future scenarios. These studies had objectives that included predicting the potential geographical distribution of a species based on scattered records, quantifying hotspots for biodiversity and identifying reserve gaps, assessing species environmental requirements and limitations, quantifying dispersal abilities of species with different life histories, studying niche conservatism among sympatric species, modeling the effect of forecasted climate change on species distributions, and examining the efficacy of different modeling approaches. We point out limitations in the use of SDMs for these purposes, including effects of limited taxonomic coverage and limited spatial resolution at fine scales. We also highlight potential future areas where use of SDMs can advance our knowledge of odonateenvironment interactions.
10.1899/12-198.1|Astacoidean crayfishes serve as hosts to obligate ectosymbiotic annelids called branchiobdellidans. Branchiobdellidans can act either as mutualistic cleaners or as ectoparasites and can have strong effects on crayfish growth and survivorship. This potentially vital aspect of crayfish biology has gone largely unexplored until recently. We reviewed the current state of knowledge regarding this symbiosis and examined factors that contribute to variability in the effects of branchiobdellidans on crayfish. We show that branchiobdellidans affect crayfish in various ways depending on branchiobdellidan species, abundance, and ecological context. We also discuss evidence for regulatory controls that crayfish exert over their symbionts and symbionthost preferences. Last, we evaluate the utility and challenges of using the crayfishbranchiobdellidan association as a model system for ecological and evolutionary research and point to promising areas for future study. Further investigations of the complex interactions between crayfish and their ectosymbionts will greatly advance the field of crayfish biology and offer many exciting opportunities for the study of symbioses.
10.1086/682007|Harmful proliferations of the mat-forming cyanobacterium
10.1899/11-010.1|Knickpoints are dynamic geomorphic formations in the longitudinal stream profile that have long been a subject of interest for geomorphologists, but have been largely unstudied in stream ecology. We measured discharge, bed sediment, and macroinvertebrate communities around knickpoints in forested and urban catchments. Knickpoints introduced microscale heterogeneity in discharge. This heterogeneity may be important in providing refugia for benthic biota during low-flow conditions, depending on the condition of the bed sediment below the knickpoint, which was highly variable. In addition, knickpoints supported a unique filterer-dominated community of macroinvertebrates not found elsewhere in the stream reach. The knickpoint itself also may maintain a higher overall density of macroinvertebrates in comparison to other habitats in the stream reach, but this prediction was only weakly supported. Instead, the largest differences in macroinvertebrate community metrics were consistently between urban and forested knickpoints. Decreases in density, species richness, and diversity from forested to urban knickpoints greatly outweighed any longitudinal differences in the macroinvertebrate community within individual knickpoint sites. Thus, we conclude that knickpoints may serve as hotspots of biodiversity and provide substantial habitat heterogeneity over a small area, but the valley-scale influence of catchment land use far outweighs the effect of these microscale geomorphic features in influencing benthic communities.
10.1899/12-099.1|The highly endemic diversity of the Yun-Gui plateau lakes has decreased severely in recent decades. Protecting these native species is a challenge, in part because their biology and population ecology remain unexplored. We investigated 1 focal endangered gastropod species (
10.1899/11-104.1|We explored changes in trophic structure and species composition of freshwater nematodes in response to nutrient enrichment in microcosms for 16mo. Succession of functional groups differed significantly among the 5 nutrient treatments, which ranged from oligotrophic to polytrophic conditions, in the 2
10.1086/675726|Authors of several studies of the spatial distributions of microorganisms have shown strong geographical patterns and stressed the importance of considering the spatial component explicitly when studying assemblageenvironment relationships. The processes underlying the patterns are still under debate because it is difficult to separate the unique roles of dispersal limitation and mass effects from spatially structured variation in environment. We analyzed correlations between assemblage dissimilarity and geographical and environmental distances in a large French diatom database, subdivided into regions, years, and different water-quality levels, with multiple regression on distance matrices (MRM) and partial Mantel correlograms. Before we applied MRM, we identified the strongest environmental predictors with the BIO-ENV procedure, which selects the best predictors after testing correlations between distance matrices including every possible set of variables. Environmental control of assemblages was stronger than spatial factors in explaining assemblage patterns, but purely spatial patterns also were significant at the national scale and within some regions. When we averaged environmental and biological data over 3 y, environmental variables accounted for more variability in assemblage structure than relationships estimated with data from a single year. Assemblages in mountainous regions showed particularly strong spatial patterns, perhaps because dispersal barriers hinder the exchange of colonists across sites. The strong spatial structure in the diatom data leads us to encourage researchers to divide ecoregions into smaller areas, especially in mountainous landscapes, when studying assemblageenvironment relationships. We also recommend the use of averaged biological and environmental data when developing biotypologies of biotic assemblages for environmental assessment and conservation.
10.1086/678693|One common stoichiometric approach to predicting patterns of nutrient release (excretion + egestion) by animals in aquatic ecosystems is to base predictions on elemental mass-balance constrained by homeostatic maintenance. An easily measured resource composite (i.e., seston, epilithon, or leaf litter) often is used to represent ingested stoichiometry, but whether such a composite is a good indicator of food actually ingested is a relatively unexplored assumption. We examined the application of a stoichiometric model to the diets of 4 generalist stream invertebrates. We fed 3 trichopteran and 1 amphipod taxa rations consisting of cultured algae, stream epilithon, and several species of conditioned leaf litter. The rations ranged widely in CN from 10 to 69 (molar) and in CP from 165 to 3500. After a 2-d feeding period, we measured NH
10.1899/11-129.1|Little is known about the effects of waterbirds on benthic macroinvertebrates in nontidal habitats. We conducted 4 waterbird-exclusion experiments in a transformed marshland in Doana Natural Park (southwestern Spain) and compared benthic macroinvertebrates in 3  3-m control (no exclusion) and test plots from which Greater Flamingos
10.1899/11-050.1|The National Lakes Assessment (NLA) used relative and attributable risks to measure the apparent nationwide effects of excess N, reduced lakeshore habitat, and other stressors on planktonic assemblages in lakes. The risk measures, borrowed from human health research, use nontechnical language to compare the apparent effects of disparate lake stressors, thereby helping the public and policymakers identify stressors of greatest national concern. However, the investigators for the NLA and similar prior surveys of streams did not adjust their risk estimates of each stressor for possible confounding by other covarying stressors. As a result, the NLA point estimates overstate the risks of individual stressors and, thus, are unreliable for assessing their importance relative to that of closely related stressors. I used NLA data from 966 lakes to illustrate existing statistical methods of risk adjustment. Point estimates of adjusted relative risk for 7 stressor variables were 15 to 64% lower than unadjusted estimates. Adjusted attributable risks also were lower than unadjusted values, but for some stressors, they were very inconsistent across 3 adjustment methods. In addition, adjusted risk estimates used only part of the available data because each estimate was adjusted for many (6) covarying stressors. Closely related stressor variables (for example, N, P, and turbidity) can be combined into a bundle representing a broader type of stress (reduced water quality). For the NLA data, adjusted risk estimates for the stressor bundles (water quality and habitat) were more consistent across estimation methods and had lower relative uncertainty than estimates for their component stressors. In addition, closely related stressors with similar sources and modes of impact are more likely to be managed together rather than individually. For these reasons, I suggest evaluating stressor bundles in future aquatic surveys.
10.1899/11-178.1|Benthic algal nutrient bioassays traditionally have been done by measuring periphytic algal biomass that has grown on fertilized or unfertilized patches of habitat produced by nutrient-diffusing substrata (NDS). This method requires destruction of the accumulated periphyton communities and, thus, does not allow for convenient monitoring through time. Variable fluorescence methods of estimating algal biomass and photosynthetic activity have been used in aquatic environments, but generally not over different nutrient treatments and not for a substantial duration. We evaluated the use of a pulse amplitude modulated (PAM) fluorometer for measuring algal biomass and photosynthetic activity in conjunction with NDS over several weeks in a wetland under several nutrient-addition treatments. We were able to detect a significant fluorometric response as early as 1wk into the study with addition of both N and P. Wetland periphyton was co-limited by N and P. Dark-acclimated minimal fluorescence was highly correlated with chlorophyll
10.1086/675683|Nonperennial streams are often excluded from biomonitoring programs because of inadequate knowledge about their biological and hydrological characteristics and variability. The ability to apply bioassessment indices to nonperennial streams would greatly expand the reach of biomonitoring programs. We sampled 12 nonperennial streams (3 of which were minimally stressed) in the San Diego hydrologic region multiple times to assess whether a benthic macroinvertebrate assessment index (the Southern California Index of Biotic Integrity [IBI]) developed for perennial streams could be used in nonperennial streams. We also sampled 3 minimally stressed perennial streams. Continuous water-level loggers and repeated site visits revealed that hydrologic regimes varied considerably among streams. Gradual drying was evident at some streams, and multiple drying/rewetting events were evident at others. Moreover, streams that were nonperennial in one year were perennial in another. IBI scores from low-stress nonperennial streams were similar to those for low-stress perennial streams, and false indications of impairment (i.e., low IBI scores) were never observed. Furthermore, IBI scores declined as stress increased, suggesting that the IBI responded as expected in nonperennial streams. IBI scores were stable at most sites within and between years, but midsummer declines were observed at high-stress sites. These declines were associated with declines in discharge, fast-water habitat, and increases in sands and fines and macroalgae cover. These findings suggest that an assessment tool developed for perennial streams can be used to assess condition at certain nonperennial streams, and that biomonitoring programs can provide more comprehensive watershed assessments by including nonperennial streams in their surveys.
10.1086/681723|Spawning anadromous fishes can enhance primary and secondary production in streams by providing marine-derived nutrients (MDN), but little is known of their effects on individual biofilm constituents (algae, fungi, and bacteria). To address this issue, we measured spatial and temporal changes in the abundance and composition of biofilm algae, fungi, and bacteria in 6 Atlantic rivers with contrasting influx of MDN. Each river had a natural barrier to anadromous fish migration, which established an upstream control and downstream treatment area, with Atlantic Salmon (
10.1899/12-183.1|We developed and evaluated a multimetric index of lake diatom condition (LDCI) based on surface-sediment samples for the National Lake Assessment (NLA) by the US Environmental Protection Agency. We selected final metrics in each of 5 categories for use in composite metrics of biological condition, which we combined in a hierarchical multimetric index. The final metrics selected for the LDCI had responses as predicted based on ecological principles, wide ranges, high signal-to-noise ratios, the ability to distinguish reference from disturbed lakes, and low intercorrelation. The final metrics were: Shannon diversity, taxon richness, % reference taxa, % tolerant taxa, % epiphytic individuals, % chain-forming individuals, % low-P taxa, % low-N taxa, % high-P taxa, % high-N taxa, %
10.1899/12-075.1|Currently available tools for studying plant litter decomposition and invertebrate consumption in aquatic ecosystems have at least 2 major limitations: 1) the difficulty of manipulating litter chemical composition to provide mechanistic insights into attributes of litter quality controlling decomposition rate, and 2) lack of a standardized litter that hampers comparisons of results among studies. These limitations point to a need for a standard litter surrogate with adjustable chemical composition. We propose using a decomposition and consumption tablet (DECOTAB) consisting of cellulose powder embedded in an agar matrix to evaluate decomposition and consumption rates in aquatic environments. We describe the preparation of DECOTABs and demonstrate some applications in laboratory microcosms and outdoor mesocosms. A leaf shredder, the isopod
10.1899/11-061.1|State water-quality professionals developing new biological assessment methods often have difficulty relating assessment results to narrative criteria in water-quality standards. An alternative to selecting index thresholds arbitrarily is to include the Biological Condition Gradient (BCG) in the development of the assessment method. The BCG describes tiers of biological community condition to help identify and communicate the position of a water body along a gradient of water quality ranging from natural to degraded. Although originally developed for fish and macroinvertebrate communities of streams and rivers, the BCG is easily adapted to other habitats and taxonomic groups. We developed a discriminant analysis model with stream algal data to predict attainment of tiered aquatic-life uses in Maines water-quality standards. We modified the BCG framework for Maine stream algae, related the BCG tiers to Maines tiered aquatic-life uses, and identified appropriate algal metrics for describing BCG tiers. Using a modified Delphi method, 5 aquatic biologists independently evaluated algal community metrics for 230 samples from streams and rivers across the state and assigned a BCG tier (16) and Maine water quality class (AA/A, B, C, nonattainment of any class) to each sample. We used minimally disturbed reference sites to approximate natural conditions (Tier 1). Biologist class assignments were unanimous for 53% of samples, and 42% of samples differed by 1 class. The biologists debated and developed consensus class assignments. A linear discriminant model built to replicate a priori class assignments correctly classified 95% of 150 samples in the model training set and 91% of 80 samples in the model validation set. Locally derived metrics based on BCG taxon tolerance groupings (e.g., sensitive, intermediate, tolerant) were more effective than were metrics developed in other regions. Adding the algal discriminant model to Maines existing macroinvertebrate discriminant model will broaden detection of biological impairment and further diagnose sources of impairment. The algal discriminant model is specific to Maine, but our approach of explicitly tying an assessment tool to tiered aquatic-life goals is widely transferrable to other regions, taxonomic groups, and waterbody types.
10.1086/675507|Many North American blackwater rivers exhibit low dissolved O
10.1899/12-058.1|Stream metabolism is used to characterize the allochthonous and autochthonous basis of stream foodweb production. The metabolic rates of respiration and gross primary production often are estimated from changes in dissolved O
10.1086/680984|Recent studies suggest that stream restoration at the reach scale may not increase stream biodiversity, raising concerns about the utility of this conservation practice. We examined whether reach-scale restoration in disturbed agricultural streams was associated with changes in macroinvertebrate community structure (total macroinvertebrate taxon richness, total macroinvertebrate density, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera [EPT] taxon richness, % abundance of EPT taxa) or secondary production (macroinvertebrate biomass over time). We collected macroinvertebrate samples over the course of 1 y from restored and unrestored reaches of 3 streams in southern Minnesota and used generalized least-square (GLS) models to assess whether measures of community structure were related to reach type, stream site, or sampling month. After accounting for effects of stream site and time, we found no significant difference in total taxon richness or % abundance of EPT taxa between restored and unrestored reaches. However, the number of EPT taxa and macroinvertebrate density were significantly higher in restored than in unrestored reaches. We compared secondary production estimates among study reaches based on 95
10.1086/675306|We used mitochondrial cytochrome
10.1086/683338|Management of aquatic resources in fire-prone areas requires understanding of fish species responses to wildfire and of the intermediate- and long-term consequences of these disturbances. We examined Rainbow Trout populations in 9 headwater streams 10 y after a major wildfire: 3 with no history of severe wildfire in the watershed (unburned), 3 in severely burned watersheds (burned), and 3 in severely burned watersheds subjected to immediate events that scoured the stream channel and eliminated streamside vegetation (burned and reorganized). Results of a previous study of this system suggested the primary lasting effects of this wildfire history on headwater stream habitat were differences in canopy cover and solar radiation, which led to higher summer stream temperatures. Nevertheless, trout were present throughout streams in burned watersheds. Older age classes were least abundant in streams draining watersheds with a burned and reorganized history, and individuals >1 y old were most abundant in streams draining watersheds with an unburned history. Burned history corresponded with fast growth, low lipid content, and early maturity of Rainbow Trout. We used an individual-based model of Rainbow Trout growth and demographic patterns to determine if temperature interactions with bioenergetics and competition among individuals could lead to observed phenotypic and ecological differences among populations in the absence of other plausible mechanisms. Modeling suggested that moderate warming associated with wildfire and channel disturbance history leads to faster individual growth, which exacerbates competition for limited food, leading to decreases in population densities. The inferred mechanisms from this modeling exercise suggest the transferability of ecological patterns to a variety of temperature-warming scenarios.
10.1086/676939|The boreal landscape is a mosaic of wetlands with distinct ecosystem properties. Algae are important for wetland functioning, but relatively little is known about the structure of algal communities among boreal wetlands. We documented spatial and temporal variability of algal community dynamics and productivity during a growing season in 6 wetlands (1 rich and 1 poor fen, 1 tussock, and 3 riverine marshes) in interior Alaska. Algal biomass and productivity were greater in the poor fen and a riverine marsh than in all other wetlands. Water depth and nutrients were significant predictors of benthic algal biomass and productivity among wetlands and were greatest immediately after the spring thaw and decreased during the growing season. Water depth and nutrients (N and P) explained the most variability in algal community structure. Algal community structure differed among wetlands, and temporal variation in environmental conditions was a significant predictor of the relative abundance of algal genera in individual wetlands. N
10.1899/11-171.1|Watershed development alters hydrology and delivers anthropogenic stressors to streams via pathways affected by impervious cover. We characterized relationships of diatom communities and metrics with upstream watershed % impervious cover (IC) and with riparian % forest and wetland cover in 120-m buffers along each side of upstream networks. Threshold Indicator Taxa ANalysis (TITAN) identified potential threshold responses of diatom communities at 0.6 and 2.9% IC. Boosted regression trees (BRTs) indicated potential thresholds between 0.7 and 4.5% IC at which relative abundances of low-nutrient diatoms decreased and those of high-nutrient, prostrate, and motile diatoms increased. These individual thresholds indicated that multiple stressors or magnitudes of stressors related to increasing watershed % IC differentially affected relative abundances of taxa, and these differential effects probably contributed to a more gradual, but still substantial, change in overall community structure. BRTs showed that near-stream buffers with >65% and ideally >80% forest and wetland cover were associated with a 13 to 34% reduction in the effects of watershed % IC on diatom metrics and community structure and with a 61 to 68% reduction in the effects of watershed % pasture on motile and high-P diatom relative abundances. Watershed % IC and riparian % forest and wetland cover probably affect hydrologic, nutrient, and sediment regimes, which then affect diatom community physiognomy and taxa sensitive to nutrients and conductivity. Our results emphasize the importance of implementing mindful development and protective measures, especially in watersheds near watershed % IC thresholds. Effects of development potentially could be reduced by restoring and conserving near-stream forests and wetlands, but management and restoration strategies that extend beyond near-stream buffers are needed.
10.1899/11-163.1|Current speed could affect algal responses to river eutrophication and flow regulation via its influence on nutrient availability to benthic algae. In laboratory experiments, the thickness of the diffusive boundary layer decreases with increasing current speed, enhancing rates of nutrient mass transfer by molecular diffusion across the layer to the algal cell wall. In rivers and streams, this phenomenon may be masked by grazing and physical losses. We used a 10-wk field experiment to test the hypothesis that the response of benthic algae to nutrient addition was a function of current speed. We deployed clay pavers at the beginning of a 3-mo period of baseflow in the Daly River (tropical Australia) at 5 sites (current speeds <298cm/s). After a 5-wk colonization period, we added nutrients to treatment sites via slow-release fertilizer pellets. After 5wk, we measured chlorophyll
10.1899/12-064.1|Native species in lakes commonly are affected by cultural eutrophication and introductions of nonnative species. The effects of these disturbances on benthic communities in large lakes have been understudied, despite the integral role that benthos play in maintaining habitat complexity and ecosystem processes. Lake Tahoe has experienced progressive eutrophication and introductions of nonnative species over the past several decades, but how its unique benthic communities have been affected is unclear. The density of Lake Tahoes benthic fauna was compared between 1960s surveys and our recent (20082009) survey, and the association of zoobenthos with macrophytes was examined for contemporary and historical samples. The density of benthic invertebrates and the occurrence of macrophytes in benthic samples have declined dramatically since collections made in the 1960s. Lakewide densities of benthic invertebrate taxa endemic to Lake Tahoe have declined by 80 to 100%, and the community structure of benthic invertebrate assemblages has changed considerably. Several native benthic invertebrate taxa were closely associated with deepwater macrophytes in the 1960s, but contemporary invertebrate association with macrophytes could not be evaluated reliably because of the scarcity of macrophytes in contemporary samples. Declines in native benthic invertebrate density could be related to the loss of habitat and food resources previously provided by abundant deepwater macrophyte assemblages. In addition, establishment and increases in density of nonnative species that occurred after the benthic surveys of the 1960s probably have affected native benthic invertebrate communities. The observed declines in Lake Tahoes native benthic invertebrate and macrophyte communities suggest that they are severely threatened.
10.1086/677900|Large impoundments remove substantial amounts of sediment and nutrients from rivers and often limit production by downstream primary producers and secondary consumers. Nutrient levels and macroinvertebrate and fish abundance in the lower Kootenai River (7
10.1899/12-214.1|The periphyton of stony hard substrates in the littoral zone of lakes is inhabited by an abundant and diverse algae and meiofauna assemblage that is regulated by grazing. The objective of our study was to examine the effect of macroinvertebrate grazers on periphytic algae and meiofaunal organisms at different depths in the littoral zone of Lake Erken (Sweden). To this end, a 2-factorial field experiment was carried out in which macrofaunal access to the periphyton was manipulated at 3 different water depths (30, 70, and 200cm). Grazing effects on algal biomass varied among depths and were highest in both deeper zones. Compared to algal biomass, the abundance of meiofaunal organisms was less affected by grazing because macrograzers significantly reduced meiofauna only at the 200-cm depth. The organism mainly responsible for the depth-dependent differences in grazer effects was the snail
10.1899/11-157.1|Variation in N stable isotope (
10.1086/679747|Ecological theory emphasizes headwater streams and wetlands as hotspots for metabolism of terrestrially derived organic matter and biogeochemical transformations. Growing evidence indicates that freshwater ecosystems may be as important as terrestrial and marine environments in the annual flux of CO
10.1899/12-009.1|Temperature is a primary driver of the structure and function of stream ecosystems. However, the lack of stream temperature (ST) data for the vast majority of streams and rivers severely compromises our ability to describe patterns of thermal variation among streams, test hypotheses regarding the effects of temperature on macroecological patterns, and assess the effects of altered STs on ecological resources. Our goal was to develop empirical models that could: 1) quantify the effects of stream and watershed alteration (SWA) on STs, and 2) accurately and precisely predict natural (i.e., reference condition) STs in conterminous USA streams and rivers. We modeled 3 ecologically important elements of the thermal regime: mean summer, mean winter, and mean annual ST. To build reference-condition models (RCMs), we used daily mean ST data obtained from several thousand US Geological Survey temperature sites distributed across the conterminous USA and iteratively modeled ST with Random Forests to identify sites in reference condition. We first created a set of dirty models (DMs) that related STs to both natural factors (e.g., climate, watershed area, topography) and measures of SWA, i.e., reservoirs, urbanization, and agriculture. The 3 models performed well (
10.1899/11-033.1|The concept of nutrient spiraling combines the geological, hydrological, and biological processes that influence nutrient cycling in streams. Spiraling studies have demonstrated connections between metabolic and nutrient cycles, organic matter (OM) dynamics, and hydrologic controls. Most spiraling studies have addressed the dynamics of a single element. However, nutrients do not move through ecosystems in isolation. Recent models have used ecological stoichiometric theory to couple N and P cycles, but empirical data to support these conceptual frameworks are generally lacking. We investigated the relationship between N and P uptake and the extent to which OM stoichiometry was related to the relative uptake of N and P in a headwater stream across 2 seasons. In addition, we explored whether our results were consistent with theoretical predictions derived from ecological stoichiometry and consumerresource imbalances. We found that higher respiration led to higher NH
10.1899/13-003.1|Scenario analysis has the potential to improve management of aquatic systems throughout the Mountaintop RemovalValley Fill mining (MTRVF) region of central Appalachia. However, the extent to which surface mining interacts with other landuse stressors (i.e., cumulative effects) is unclear, and this limits our ability to predict the effects of new mines on physical, chemical, and biological conditions downstream. We tested for additive and interactive effects of landuse change (surface mining, deep mining, and residential development) on water quality (specific conductance and Se), habitat quality, and benthic macroinvertebrates via a uniquely designed watershed-scale assessment of the Coal River, West Virginia (USA). We derived equations for predicting in-stream response to landscape changes and predicted the outcome of a realistic future scenario involving development of 15 permitted mines. Elevated Se concentrations were directly correlated with incremental increases in surface-mining extent. Surface mining, deep mining, and residential development had additive effects on elevated specific conductance and reduced biological condition. We found evidence of a positive interactive effect (stressor antagonism) of deep mining and residential development on biological condition, presumably caused by stream-flow augmentation from deep mines. Landscape context influenced predicted impacts from construction of 15 new mines because of additive and interactive effects of landuse change. New surface mines increased the number of receiving streams exceeding chemical and biological criteria, but a greater proportion of receiving streams exceeded chemical and biological criteria at equivalent levels of new mine development when pre-existing stressors were present. When surface mining was the only stressor, 30 or 40% increases in surface mining caused 100% of streams to exceed chemical or biological standards, respectively, whereas in streams stressed by deep mining and residential development, 10% additional surface mining caused 100% of streams to exceed chemical and biological standards. Continued progress in this area will require a better understanding of how landuse change affects aquatic systems in the rest of the MTRVF mining region, where watershed-to-watershed variation in landuse patterns probably causes variability in ecological response.
10.1086/682000|Dissolved organic C (DOC) leached from leaf litter contributes to the C pool of stream ecosystems and affects C cycling in streams. We studied how differences in leaf-litter chemistry affect the optical properties and decomposition of DOC. We used 2 species of cottonwoods (
10.1086/684001|To further our understanding of the linkages among wildfire, streamflow pathways, and water chemistry, we used a network of water-quality sensors and streamflow gages to assess initial and long-term effects of wildfire along a river continuum. We assessed water quality of a 2
10.1899/11-160.1|We explored the resilience of the invasive New Zealand mudsnail
10.1899/11-018.1|We investigated the successional development of a benthic macrofaunal community in Kalmar Dmme, a man-made wetland in southeastern Sweden, over a 13-y period after construction (19972009). We assessed primary succession by monitoring changes in species composition, biological traits, and community structure. Predictable successional changes occurred, and the structure of the community was complex at the advanced phase. Three successional phases were observed, each with typifying species. At the advanced phase, dominant biological traits shifted to favor animals with longer life-cycle durations, aerial dispersal strategies, and certain feeding types (i.e., filter-feeders, fine sediment collectors, predators, and parasites). We selected the Coleoptera assemblage to represent the macroinvertebrate community in an evaluation of the extent to which man-made wetlands in different age classes (<3y and 10y) were similar to natural wetlands (>50y). No significant differences in Coleoptera assemblages were found between natural wetlands and man-made wetlands 10y. However, man-made wetlands 10y had significantly higher coleopteran species richness than natural and man-made wetlands <3y because of the convergence of pioneering species persisting from early successional stages with representative specialized taxa from natural wetlands. Our results suggest that 10y may be sufficient time for the macrofaunal communities of man-made wetlands to resemble those of natural wetlands.
10.1086/681093|Many forested headwater streams are heterotrophic ecosystems in which allochthonous inputs of plant litter are a major source of energy. Leaves of riparian vegetation entering the stream are broken down by a combination of biotic and abiotic processes and, in most temperate and boreal streams, provide food and habitat for dense populations of detritivorous invertebrates. However, tropical streams in different parts of the world show substantial variability in the number and diversity of leaf-shredding detritivores (hereafter detritivores). We used data obtained with standardized methods from multiple streams in Africa, the Americas, Asia, and Australia to test the hypothesis that this variability would lead to differences in the relative role of detritivores and microorganisms in the breakdown process. We also tested the hypotheses that variability in litter breakdown rates changes with litter type (native litter mixtures vs nonnative alder [
10.1899/11-079.1|Total benthic invertebrate biomass in shallow offshore waters (depths 1015m) increased 17-fold on average following the invasion of dreissenid mussels and implementation of P controls in Lake Simcoe, Ontario, despite a 50% overall decrease in total invertebrate density during the same time period. The increase in total invertebrate biomass at 10- and 15-m depths was primarily dreissenid biomass. Patterns of biomass with depth and dreissenid invasion for individual taxa were typically similar to those for density. Biomass of chironomid and nondreissenid bivalves declined at shallow (1015m) sites but increased at the deepest (2030m) sites, whereas biomass of oligochaetes declined at all sites. Density and biomass of Amphipoda, Isopoda, and Gastropoda increased at depths 10m, and these taxa were found more frequently in deeper sites after dreissenid invasion than before. Increased habitation of deeper sites by these taxa may be mediated by increased habitat complexity caused by deposition of dreissenid shells, nutrient enrichment of substrate occupied by dreissenids, and improvements in hypolimnetic dissolved O
10.1086/679459|The current and future direction of aquatic ecological research leans toward addressing questions that cover multiple scales and levels of complexity. Historically, the ability to do comparative aquatic research across large spatial and temporal scales has been impeded by a lack of comparable measurements, standard methods, and a well organized data management and retrieval system. The National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON) is the first continental-scale ecological observation system designed to collect and provide freely available data on the drivers and responses of ecological change. In this paper, we describe past and present attempts to work across multiple scales in aquatic ecology, and the potential use of NEON aquatics data and infrastructure by researchers to integrate and expand ecological research programs and address novel ecological questions.
10.1899/10-160.1|Multiple drivers of global environmental change are fundamentally altering essential basal resources, such as detritus. Metabolic processes in most aquatic ecosystems are supported by terrestrial detritus, which contributes to the production of organisms and the energetic stability of ecosystems. We suggest that conservation and management approaches to ecosystems along river networks must incorporate the organic-matter resources that support them. Understanding changes in the dynamics of detrital organic matter is particularly important because the quantity of this resource is decreasing and its qualities are being altered as a result of effects of current global changes. We summarize these effects in lotic ecosystems from reach- to network-scales and suggest future research questions aimed at adding quantitative rigor to our understanding of the interactions between dynamics of organic matter and ecological outcomes. This approach is a necessary next step to address large-scale changes in stream and river ecosystems that derive from fundamental alterations in detrital resources, which propagate through the foodweb base to higher-order consumers and emergent ecosystem properties.
10.1899/12-044.1|Population genetic studies of freshwater invertebrate taxa in New Zealand and South America are currently few despite the geologically and climatically dynamic histories of these regions. The focus of our study was a comparison of the influence on realized dispersal of 2 closely related nonbiting midges (Chironomidae) of population fragmentation on these separated austral land masses. We used a 734-base pair (bp) fragment of cytochrome
10.1899/12-081.1|One of the largest impediments to the conservation of freshwater mussels is the absence of host-fish data. Suitable hosts must be present in sufficient numbers and occur at the appropriate time for successful mussel recruitment. Habitat degradation and fragmentation caused by dams and other anthropogenic alterations may reduce host availability. Host data are lacking for the federally threatened Purple Bankclimber mussel (
10.1086/680986|Crangonyctid amphipods occupy temporary habitats across northeastern North America, but they are mostly known as permanent-water species.
10.1086/678492|Freshwater ecosystems are highly vulnerable to warming climates. However, macroecological studies of climate-change effects on aquatic biodiversity are rare because of a lack of standardized large-scale surveys, e.g., along large latitudinal gradients. Our goal was to assess the overall richness pattern and projected differences in present and future patterns of the stream insect orders Ephemeroptera (E), Plecoptera (P), Trichoptera (T), and combined EPT along an extensive latitudinal gradient across North America (30 to 70N). We applied Bioclimatic Envelope Models (BEMs) to project present-day and future climatically suitable areas for EPTs on a spatial resolution of 10 arc-min (20 km  20 km) across North America. To overcome issues related to spatially biased sampling, we assessed climatically suitable areas (CSAs) for each genus and modeled potential generic richness/grid cell, rather than assessing observed generic richness patterns directly. Projected present-day generic richness was greatest between 40 and 48N latitude, with peaks at 44, 45, and 47N for the E, P, and T orders, respectively. Our models projected that CSAs would shift an average 4.2 to 5.2, 4.4 to 5.3 and 3.4 to 4.1N latitude by 2080 for E, P, and T genera, respectively. Overall, the present-day projected generic EPT richness is highest in the warm and cool temperate zones and shows a unimodal richness pattern that is projected to shift northward under climate-change conditions. A similar northward shift of richness patterns might also apply to other aquatic insects with relatively narrow thermal sensitivity and terrestrial, winged adults, e.g., freshwater Diptera or many aquatic Coleoptera. This large-scale application of genus-by-genus models gives a first approximation of the likely consequences of climate-change effects on freshwater biota across North America.
10.1899/12-147.1|The fraction of gross primary production (GPP) that is immediately respired by autotrophs and their closely associated heterotrophs (
10.1086/675447|The European Unions Water Framework Directive (WFD) requires that all water bodies in Europe achieve good ecological status (GES) by 2015. We developed an ecological classification tool for UK lakes based on benthic diatoms, a key component of the biological-quality element
10.1086/679484|Climate change is projected to facilitate altitudinal range expansions of lowland taxa, creating novel species interactions. However, how range shifts will alter biotic interactions and community structure in alpine streams is not well understood. In the Pyrnes, climate-induced physicochemical habitat change is hypothesized to facilitate the colonization of high-altitude streams by
10.1899/11-055.1|Excessive nutrient inputs and grazers can influence biomass and elemental composition of primary producers in freshwater ecosystems. How interactions between nutrient enrichment and grazing fish alter benthic habitats through effects on periphyton autotrophy, biomass, and elemental composition has been studied rarely. We compared the effects of grazing by central stonerollers (
10.1899/12-150.1|Evaluators of aquatic systems often use benthic macroinvertebrates because they are central components in the food chain and useful for water-quality assessments and management decisions. More than 44 sampling devices are commonly used to collect benthic macroinvertebrates. Bitter Lake National Wildlife Refuge in New Mexico, USA, is a unique habitat with a complex of aquatic sinkholes. Morphometry, water chemistry, and biology differ vastly among sinkholes, creating challenges when deciding how to sample appropriately for benthic macroinvertebrates. We evaluated 5 sampling methods commonly used in lentic habitats: aquatic net (epibenthic sled), artificial substrate (HesterDendy multiplate [H-D] sampler), light trap, grab (Ponar grab), and suction sampler (pump sampler). We compared total number of taxa, % taxa detected, and total number of individuals collected among the 5 methods with a mixed-model incomplete block analysis of variance. The light trap caught the most taxa and yielded the highest % taxa detected. It also caught the most specimens. H-D samplers and Ponar grabs added taxa that were not commonly found in light traps, especially gastropods. We were unable to deploy the pump sampler and the epibenthic sled in all sinkholes, and they contributed little additional information. We recommend combined use of light traps, H-D samplers, and a Ponar grab to obtain a good representation of benthic invertebrates over a wide variety of environmental conditions in sinkholes and other lentic habitats. Together these methods detected 84 to 100% of taxa in each sinkhole.
10.1899/11-165.1|Little research has been conducted on the influence of microbial communities, sediment disturbances, and their interaction on the Vertical Water Flux (VWF) across a hydraulically complex streambed. Our study was aimed at the effects of microbial activity and shallow-sediment disturbance on VWF in sandbed flumes. We assessed the dynamics of VWF and the development of a microbial community during 30d (JuneJuly 2010) in 16 outdoor flumes with 2 types of bedform shape (level and ripple). We operated 8 flumes in constant darkness (no-light), and 8 in daylight to gain information on the relative significance of algae and heterotrophic microorganisms. We simulated a shallow-sediment disturbance after 21d and compared microbial activity and VWF before and after the disturbance. We measured organic matter content, abundance of organisms, microbial activity, precipitation of CaCO
10.1086/684015|Postfire disturbances, such as debris flows, may alter the recovery of stream ecosystems from wildfire. Furthermore, changes to productivity and the dynamics of nutrients and organic matter (OM) in tributaries may affect fluxes of materials and organisms to mainstem habitats. We investigated the consequences of watershed wildfire and debris flows for exports from tributaries to mainstem habitats in the South Fork Salmon River Basin of central Idaho, USA. We compared fluxes from 15 streams (
10.1899/12-190.1|Biological N
10.1086/682329|River-channel confluences create habitat heterogeneity by introducing multiple zones of hydraulic flow and increase macroinvertebrate densities and diversity via the input of coarse sediment, allochthonous detritus, and nutrients. Current understanding of confluence effects on stream community structure and function is based mostly on research conducted at medium-to-large tributary confluences where nutrient and detrital loads are typically high. Confluences of headwater streams and in streams without the input of these materials are understudied. In this study, we sampled macroinvertebrate communities and measured sediment and flow conditions upstream, within, and downstream of confluences. Our sampling included braided confluences, which lack allochthonous detritus and coarse sediment sources, and headwater-stream confluences. Braided confluences had lower macroinvertebrate densities and richness compared to up- and downstream reaches, whereas headwater-stream confluences had a negligible effect on confluence communities. Our results indicate that confluences are not always areas of increased species richness and density for macroinvertebrates. Rather, severe shear stress conditions created by confluence hydraulics can reduce benthic community density and richness relative to adjacent stream locations, especially when tributary inputs of allochthonous food sources to the confluence are low. In addition, we found that all confluences that we studied created small step changes in community composition. Thus, braided rivers may create new habitat patches every time a channel divides or joins, promoting habitat heterogeneity on a broader scale.
10.1086/678947|Reference Condition Approach (RCA) predictive models are used to assess a test site against reference sites probabilistically matched based on habitat. These models are the basis of several major national stream bioassessment programs in the UK, Australia, and Canada. In the usual approach to developing predictive models, discriminant function analysis (DFA) is used to assign a test site to a group of matched reference sites. These groups typically are established by classification of a macroinvertebrate assemblage and matched to the habitat attributes in a single-step DFA model. We examined an alternative to standard DFA in which a series of tiered models are used. This tiered method constructs a model for the 1
10.1086/681910|Multiple natural and anthropogenic stressors pose a serious threat to the health and diversity of biological communities. A growing body of research suggests that one consequence of these stressors has been a regional-scale loss of crayfish populations across south-central Ontario. The mechanisms contributing to the imperilment of crayfish probably include historical acidification and metal contamination, shoreline development and habitat loss, increased water temperature, declining [Ca] in lake water, and invasion by nonnative species (i.e., Smallmouth Bass and the rusty crayfish). Long-term monitoring data of crayfish populations in Algonquin Provincial Park (Ontario) have documented marked declines in
10.1899/12-188.1|River landscapes are increasingly viewed as a collection of nested geomorphic features, the hydrological effects of which juxtapose to create a mosaic of aquatic habitat conditions. We examined how the combined hydrological influences of stream reaches and gravel bars affect the composition of hyporheic invertebrate assemblages along the longitudinal and vertical dimensions of river landscapes. We worked in 12 braided-river valley segments of tributaries to the Rhne River, France. Valley segments were bounded downstream by geological knickpoints so that bedform-induced exchange flows beneath gravel bars and riffles were predictably embedded in exchange flows occurring at the valley-segment scale. In upstream reaches (UR) and downstream reaches (DR) of each valley segment, we collected invertebrates at the heads and tails of gravel bars in the hyporheic zone and at the upstream and downstream ends of riffles in surface channels adjacent to the bars. Patterns of vertical hydraulic gradient and specific conductance and the resulting spatial heterogeneity of temperature, dissolved O
10.1086/676118|Thousands of local watershed organizations and lake associations are actively involved in protection and management of freshwater systems throughout the USA. These nonprofit organizations may or may not have paid staff and rarely employ trained scientists or natural resource managers. Thus, they face challenges, including lack of access to technical assistance to support their lake and river assessment and management initiatives, and may struggle to convince decision makers of the validity of their efforts. Meanwhile, researchers and managers within academia and agencies are challenged by lack of access to long-term data sets, field sites, funding, and personnel, and sometimes struggle to demonstrate real-world application of research results and to build support for freshwater research and management programs. The Michigan Clean Water Corps (MiCorps) volunteer monitoring program is a partnership-based program involving state and regional organizations and local volunteers that has met the above challenges, resulted in expanded monitoring of lakes and streams in Michigan (USA), and led to synergistic outcomes, such as advancing freshwater science, building public support for research and management, and implementing science-based management and protection projects at the local level.
10.1086/678049|Rare species are difficult to study or conserve.
10.1086/684002|The question of the kinds of water bodies federal and state agencies may regulate under the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) has reached the US Supreme Court 3 times without clear resolution. The Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers (collectively, the agencies), based in part on a recent synthesis of science regarding the connectivity of surface waters (USEPA
10.1899/12-122.1|Few investigators have examined simultaneous bacterial and fungal responses to leaf-litter chemistry in fresh water. We tested the hypothesis that bacteria would be more abundant on labile litter with lower concentrations of defensive compounds, whereas fungi would be more abundant on recalcitrant litter. We used quantitative-polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) to measure the abundance of bacterial 16S and fungal 18S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) genes and found that these groups responded differently to leaf chemistry. Bacterial 16S rRNA genes were 4 more abundant on labile than on recalcitrant litter. In contrast, fungal 18S rRNA genes were 8 more abundant on recalcitrant than on labile litter. Peak bacterial gene abundances on day 6 were related to leaf-litter % bound condensed tannin (
10.1899/11-103.1|Displacement of riparian vegetation by exotic species is a global phenomenon with the potential to affect leaf breakdown rates by shredders. We predicted that exotic riparian vegetation would have a greater effect on leaf breakdown by temperate than by tropical shredders because temperate shredders usually feed on a limited range of generally palatable leaves, whereas tropical shredders are naturally exposed to a higher variety of leaves, many of them unpalatable. We tested 3 hypotheses with common shredder assemblages from tropical Queensland and temperate Tasmania (Australia): 1) tropical shredders are equally efficient at breaking down native and exotic vegetation, whereas temperate shredders are less efficient at breaking down exotic vegetation; 2) tropical shredders are more generalist in their leaf choices than temperate shredders; and 3) shredders are more generalist in their leaf choices among exotic than among native vegetation. Hypothesis 1 was not supported. Caddisflies (tropical or temperate) were able to consume both native and exotic leaves, whereas non-caddisfly shredders fed only on native leaves, a result suggesting that shredding capacity depends on the identity of the shredder species or their phylogenetic position rather than on their origin. Hypothesis 2 was supported. Tropical shredders fed on various leaf types, whereas most temperate shredders chose one leaf type and fed on it for the duration of the experiment. Hypothesis 3 was not supported. Specificity of shredder choices did not differ between native and exotic leaves, a result suggesting that shredding behavior is not flexible, regardless of the leaf litter available. Thus, invasive riparian plants may affect leaf breakdown by shredders, particularly in temperate streams, but effects may vary depending on assemblage composition, the nature and timing of litterfall, and interactions with climate.
10.1899/12-017.1|Temporary rivers are shifting mosaics of aquatic and terrestrial habitat driven by hydrologic variability. Advancing wetted fronts (AWFs) that rewet dry river beds are unpredictable events, and knowledge about their composition and role in habitat mosaics is scarce. We collected dead and living terrestrial invertebrates, aquatic invertebrates, and sestonic matter (i.e., suspended sediments and organic matter) entrained by flow in an AWF travelling downstream over a 7-km-long dry reach. We collected samples at 12 sites along the rewetting reach and at 3 sites in the upstream perennial reach of the Albarine River, France. Invertebrates in the AWF were mainly of terrestrial origin and organic matter was essentially coarse (>5mm). Terrestrial invertebrate density and taxonomic richness and sestonic matter concentration were several orders of magnitude higher in the AWF than in the perennial reach. However, only terrestrial invertebrate taxonomic richness increased longitudinally. At least  of terrestrial taxa could have survived submersion, and the density and taxonomic richness of these taxa decreased downstream. These results indicate that terrestrially derived material is stored downstream during rewetting where it could greatly stimulate in-stream aquatic productivity and succession in terrestrial invertebrates along the riparian zone. In contrast, entrained aquatic taxa represented 15% of the benthic taxa collected 1mo after rewetting, indicating a low contribution of AWFs to benthic invertebrate succession. In the context of global change and increasing appropriation of water resources by humans, our results suggest that conceptual models of invertebrate dynamic and organic matter processing in rivers should account for dry phases and transitional periods from dry to wet conditions.
10.1086/681303|We described invertebrate assemblage composition over a range of spatial and temporal scales in the Burdekin River, one of northern Australias large and variable dry-tropical river systems. Invertebrates were abundant but not diverse, and the assemblage structure exhibited considerable variability in space and time. Substratum and historical flow characteristics were important environmental factors influencing assemblage structure. The effect of substratum on invertebrate assemblage composition appears to be complex and operates over multiple spatial scales within the riverine habitat hierarchy. The fauna differed significantly among the major mesohabitat types (cobble, bedrock, and sand substrata), but divergent microhabitat-scale preferences of some taxa for finer or coarser sandy sediments demonstrated the importance of small-scale local factors in structuring invertebrate assemblages. The significant influence of antecedent hydrology coupled with pronounced spatial variation in site assemblage composition between qualitatively similar mesohabitats suggest that biomonitoring in variable, sand-bed rivers will benefit from standardization of sampling in relation to explicit flow and substratum characteristics to assess spatial and temporal changes in assemblages adequately.
10.1086/674578|Availability and quality of food resources limit consumer performance and modulate food webs, which in turn, can affect ecosystem functioning. Availability and quality of food resources can be especially important in streams, where consumers depend on allochthonous organic matter whose availability and quality can differ markedly both spatially and throughout the year. Most studies of the relationships between food quality and detritivore performance have been based on standardized food types and have not been designed to allow consideration of interactions between resource quantity and quality. Our goal was to evaluate the effects of quality and quantity of resource on shredder performance. We raised larvae of the caddisfly
10.1086/681820|Considerable uncertainty exists regarding the ability of reach-scale habitat restorations to promote ecological integrity and affect community composition in degraded streams and rivers and the time scales at which these effects take place. Restoration of habitats on the reach scale (hundreds of meters to a few kilometers) is expected to support threatened species because many of them are habitat specialists. In contrast, generalist species are predicted to be replaced in restored reaches. We used a large data set for 62 reach-scale restoration projects in 51 stream systems in Germany, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein and analyzed the changes in fish community composition induced by the restorations in terms of species richness, species turnover, Brillouin diversity index, total fish abundance, and proportion of alien and endangered species. We further analyzed the temporal dynamics of the fish community recovery over a period of 19 y postrestoration. Species richness and Brillouin diversity index increased in most of the restoration projects (66 and 57%, respectively), but recovery to historical reference conditions was not achieved. Total abundance was enhanced by most of the projects. Species composition in restored reaches underwent directed shifts for at least 10 y, with high and variable species turnover in the first years that decreased over time. The effects of restoration on Brillouin diversity index were highly variable in the first few years after restoration, but tended to increase over time. These dynamics must be considered more carefully in future protocols for evaluating restoration results, and final evaluation of restoration outcomes on fish communities should not be made too early. Our results indicate that reach-scale habitat restorations may be a suitable tool for increasing local fish abundance and slightly enhancing species diversity. However, more targeted approaches are needed to support threatened species and repress alien species.
10.1899/12-062.1|In summer, streams in Portuguese eucalyptus forests frequently experience drought resulting in isolated pools, frequently saturated with leaf litter, in which the leaf leachates may generate toxic and hypoxic conditions. We assessed the ecological effects of
10.1086/679739|Geothermally modified ground water (GMG) in tectonically active areas can be an important source of stream nutrients, and the relative importance of GMG inflows is likely to change with shifts in precipitation that are predicted to occur in response to climate change. However, few studies have quantified the influence of GMG inflows on export of biologically important solutes from watersheds across years differing in precipitation. We quantified N, soluble reactive P (SRP), and dissolved organic C (DOC) export during a year with high precipitation (6550 mm rain) and a year with average precipitation (4033 mm rain) in 2 gauged tropical streams at La Selva Biological Station in lowland Costa Rica. One stream receives extensive inputs of regional GMG, whereas the other is fed entirely by local runoff. In the stream fed only by local runoff, a 62% increase in precipitation from the dry year to the wet year led to a 68% increase in stream discharge, a 67% increase in export of SRP, DOC, dissolved organic N (DON), and NH
10.1899/11-035.1|The Crown Forest Sustainability Act stipulates that Ontarios public forests be managed to conserve biological diversity and long-term health by following an emulation of natural disturbance (END) paradigm. Upland forests have been managed following an evolving END approach since the mid-1990s, but operations have been largely excluded from riparian forests. The new Forest Management Guide for Conserving Biodiversity at the Stand and Site Scales attempted to integrate the protection of fish habitat and water quality with the desire to emulate natural disturbance patterns in riparian forests to create a diversity of habitats to support a broad range of riparian plants and animals. Where wildfire is the dominant agent of disturbance, it encourages thoughtfully planned and carefully implemented clearcutting within riparian forest. We provide some examples of how science-based knowledge was used to develop direction to achieve these objectives.
10.1899/13-002.1|Salamanders are abundant consumers in many temperate streams and may be important recyclers of biologically essential nutrients, but their ecological role is poorly understood. The ecological significance of nutrient recycling by salamanders may vary spatially and seasonally because of their potentially patchy distribution in streams and the dynamic nature of stream hydrology and other nutrient fluxes. We examined the spatial and seasonal variation of salamander-driven nutrient recycling in 3 headwater streams in the southern Appalachian Mountains. We quantified the aggregate areal excretion rates of N (NH
10.1086/676674|Hydroperiod strongly influences the breeding period and development time of many amphibians, and larvae of various species display developmental plasticity in response to habitat drying. Hydrologic alterations associated with anthropogenic activities potentially can influence hostparasite interactions in humans and wildlife, but few investigators have examined this possibility. Pathogens can delay amphibian development, so infections could constrain the ability of parasitized larvae to respond to a shortened hydroperiod under drying conditions. We examined the individual and joint effects of hydroperiod and infection with a pathogenic trematode parasite (
10.1086/676117|Assessment of ecological integrity is the basis for sustainable management of the ecosystem services lakes provide. Periphyton is used in stream assessment, but lake assessment is based mostly on water-column variables. We addressed the use of periphyton to assess lakes, how factors influence responses of periphyton metrics, and whether periphyton provides unique information for determining biological condition and identifying risks. Much effort directed at using periphyton for assessment has focused on linear relationships between taxonomic metrics and single stressors. These relationships can be good proxies for water chemistry, but do not always represent biological conditions. Community diversity is difficult to relate to stressors because low values may result from natural conditions (grazing, disturbance). Quantile regression, River Invertebrate Prediction and Classification System (RIVPACS)-type models, and taxonomic distinctiveness may provide more precise indicators. Periphyton biomass and productivity are linked closely to trophic status but are rarely used in assessment. Responses of these variables over a trophic gradient are often nonlinear, and surrogate metrics that use quantile regression or weighted-averaging calibration/regression based on community composition may overcome this problem for assessment. Measures, such as alkaline phosphatase activity, number of N-fixing taxa, and periphyton nutrient stoichiometry can be used to assess littoral-zone ecosystem function and to help establish causative effects of stressors. The value added by periphyton-based assessment is that it provides higher-level understanding of the ecological status of the littoral zone. Assessment must be rooted in a strong understanding of the science and must provide guidance and cost-effective options for lake managers. We outline a hierarchy for periphyton assessment methods that assess risk at different levels of effort and precision.
10.1899/11-107.1|Positive correlations between diversity and stability have been reported for a number of ecosystems and are thought to be caused by a stabilizing effect of differential species responses to environmental perturbation. Empirical field studies in which investigators tested for diversitystability relationships are lacking for some taxonomic groups and typically have not included tests of the importance of other potential correlates of diversity or assemblage structure. We sampled stream fish assemblages and associated habitat variables at 36 sites over a 10-y period. Quantitative and qualitative measures of stability were correlated with fish diversity at sites. Fish assemblage composition was correlated with a variety of habitat variables, and diversity was correlated with stream size. We used Akaikes Information Criterion to select the models that best predicted qualitative and quantitative stability. Candidate models contained variables describing diversity, stream size, time between samples, and change in habitat variables over time. Models that included diversity and time between samples were the best predictors of stability. Our results support the existence of diversitystability relationships, and we showed that other predictors of diversity or habitat change were generally poor predictors of stability.
10.1899/12-186.1|We used field-derived data from streams in Nevada, USA, to quantify relationships between stream biological condition, in-stream stressors, and potential sources of stress (land use). We used 2 freshwater macroinvertebrate-based indices to measure biological condition: a multimetric index (MMI) and an observed to expected (O/E) index of taxonomic completeness. We considered 4 categories of potential stressors: dissolved metals, total dissolved solids, nutrients, and flow alteration. For physicochemical factors that varied predictably across natural environmental gradients, we quantified potential stress as the site-specific difference between observed (O) and expected (E) levels of each factor (OE
10.1899/12-124.1|Predation effects in streams can cascade to terrestrial food webs through the flux of organisms that develop in the stream and emerge as adults to the terrestrial system. This emergence subsidizes some terrestrial predators, an effect that generally varies based on the magnitude of the subsidy. Factors regulating this magnitude are relatively well known, but factors regulating the trophic structure of the subsidy are not. I tested the hypothesis that predatory fish in natural stream pools alter the biomass and trophic structure (proportion of predatory adults) of emerging aquatic insects. I created a 13 gradient of predatory fish biomass (4 species of
10.1899/12-026.1|We used an integrative-taxonomy approach to help resolve taxonomic issues within the genus
10.1086/675243|Natural distributions of most freshwater taxa are restricted geographically, a pattern that reflects dispersal limitation.
10.1086/675500|Predators can induce a suite of evolutionary responses, such as changes in behavior, life-history traits or morphology, from their prey. Our work adds to the growing number of studies of kairomone-mediated aquatic predatorprey interactions that significantly affect prey morphology. Individuals of the amphidromous shrimp
10.1899/12-163.1|We investigated how the source and composition of stream dissolved organic matter (DOM) influenced rates of benthic bacterial C production (BCP) in 20 forested, headwater streams in southern Tasmania. We also assessed whether the source and composition of stream DOM was influenced by clearfell forest harvesting (119y after harvest). Stream DOM was dominated by humic- and fulvic-like fluorescence (86.395.5%) as measured by parallel factor (PARAFAC) analysis of DOM fluorescence. Several reach-scale environmental variables showed significant positive (leaf-area index, sediment total N, organic C) or negative (stream temperature) linear relationships with BCP. However, an increasing contribution of terrestrial DOM, as measured by a decreasing fluorescence index (FI), was the strongest variable driving in situ benthic BCP (
10.1086/680682|C cycling and dissolved organic C (DOC) inputs to boreal aquatic systems probably will change substantially with climate change. DOC concentrations already are increasing in surface waters. Terrestrial C is a major source of C to boreal freshwater ecosystems, but the interface between these 2 ecosystems, the riparian zone, has not been studied often. To improve our understanding of the importance of terrestrial inputs of DOC to aquatic systems from surrounding forests, we followed the changes of DOC concentration along a continuum of precipitation, throughfall, soil water, ground water, lake, and brook water in a pristine, boreal, forested headwater catchment and developed a lake C balance based on terrestrial and lacustrine C fluxes. We also examined DOC quality changes using the ratio of absorbance at 465 and 665 nm (E
10.1899/10-174.1|We evaluated macroinvertebrate-based metrics from HesterDendy samplers (HDs) that were either new or previously deployed (HS status) and were processed with either picking or scraping methods. The metrics assessed included the total number of individuals, the number of intolerant individuals, the total number of families, and the number of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera (EPT) individuals. No significant differences in mean number of individuals, intolerant individuals, and total families were detected between processing techniques or HD status (all
10.1899/12-023.1|The widespread distributions of aquatic species often contrast with their limited ability to disperse by their own propulsion among wetlands isolated by land. Studies of the potential role of water birds as dispersal vectors have been focused mainly on internal transport (endozoochory). However, many anecdotal observations that small species adhere to flying birds also exist (ectozoochory). We addressed the hypothesis that ectozoochory may contribute to the widespread distributions of aquatic snails (Gastropoda) in several experiments. We tested the likelihood that snails would attach to mallards (
10.1086/684094|Habitat fragmentation and degradation and invasion of nonnative species have restricted the distribution of native trout. Many trout populations are limited to headwater streams where negative effects of predicted climate change, including reduced stream flow and increased risk of catastrophic fires, may further jeopardize their persistence. Headwater streams in steep terrain are especially susceptible to disturbance associated with postfire debris flows, which have led to local extirpation of trout populations in some systems. We conducted a reach-scale spatial analysis of debris-flow risk among 11 high-elevation watersheds of the Colorado Rocky Mountains occupied by isolated populations of Colorado River Cutthroat Trout (
10.1899/11-016.1|We used dual-isotope mixing models (
10.1899/11-092.1|Creation of spring typologies for different regions is essential for evaluating spring degradation and for restoration of headwaters. We present a regional spring typology for the German federal state Schleswig-Holstein in the Northern European Lowlands. We used a standardized physicochemical and hydromorphological protocol to map 174 near-natural springs distributed area-wide. Principal component analysis distinguished types of springs (rheocrenes, helocrenes, limnocrenes, and an intermediate type, rheohelocrenes) on the basis of water chemistry and substratum composition. The spatial distribution of the types corresponded with the regional fluvioglacial landscapes of Schleswig-Holstein (hill country, Baltic Sea margin, the high Geest, and the low Geest). The most important discriminating factors were related to water hardness and conductivity. We sampled macroinvertebrates in 60 springs (twice in 40, once in 20) selected based on type and distribution among fluvioglacial landscapes. We detected 121 taxa, most of them Hydrachnidia (25 species), Trichoptera (19), Coleoptera (19), and Gastropoda (12). Many of the species are considered rare for Schleswig-Holstein (regional red-list species). Forty-two species were restricted mainly to springs (crenobiont or crenophilous species). Average taxon richness was similar for helocrenes (23 species), rheohelocrenes (22), and rheocrenes (25), but markedly lower for limnocrenes (11). Species composition differed between rheocrenes and helocrenes and between limnocrenes and all other spring types. Faunal distinctness of rheohelocrenes was less pronounced. We were able to produce a validated spring typology founded on substratum composition, physicochemical factors, and taxon composition. This typology can serve as a guide for restoration of severely degraded springs and headwaters in Schleswig-Holstein and in similar areas of Central Europe.
10.1899/11-149.1|Freshwater mussels (Unionidae) are among the most endangered groups of organisms in the world, and their conservation and recovery are priorities throughout North America, especially the southeastern USA. We used a ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNA-seq)-based approach to develop molecular resources for
10.1899/12-004.1|Changes to nutrient loads may affect the stoichiometry of urban or suburban stream food webs. We quantified foodweb stoichiometry in 9 detritus-based headwater streams draining forested or suburban watersheds in northeastern, coastal Massachusetts (USA). We measured C, N, and P content (%C, %N, %P) and relative ratios (CNP) of basal food resources and macroinvertebrate consumers in each stream. Greater dissolved nutrient concentrations in suburban streams did not cause significant changes in overall elemental content (%C, %N, %P) of basal food resources, but their NP ratios decreased in high-nutrient streams, indicating that higher nutrients do affect food quality. The nutrient content of most macroinvertebrate taxa consuming these altered food resources was unaffected by suburban nutrient enrichment. However, some taxa deviated from strict homeostasis. Samples of these stoichiometrically variable taxa from the most enriched suburban streams had variable %N, a result suggesting that shifts in %P may not be the only means by which body stoichiometry is altered by nutrient enrichment. Moreover, many of the taxa with nutrient contents that differed across stream groups are typically more abundant in suburban than in forested streams, a result suggesting a potential link between consumerresource stoichiometry and the tolerance of certain taxa for nutrient enrichment. Overall, our results are consistent with those of other studies on ecosystem properties or functions in urban streams in which the complex nature of urban effects does not always yield general patterns seen in less-affected systems.
10.1899/11-147.1|The Platte River caddisfly (
10.1086/675076|Most population genetic studies in streams infer long-term patterns of gene flow by calculating fixation indices (e.g.,
10.1086/682174|The academic study of dragonflies and damselflies (odonatology) is well established, but relatively limited attention has been given to odonates in the context of applied ecology and conservation science. We used the Web of Science and Odonatological Abstract Service (ISSN 1438-0269) to capture trends in primary literature, characterize study features (habitats, life stages, etc.), identify research themes, and suggest future directions for odonatology in freshwater applied ecology and conservation science. We found no papers in this area prior to 1980, and 411 papers from 1980 through 2013. Nearly 75% of these papers were recent (since 2005) and >40% were very recent (since 2010). We identified several broad and overlapping research themes: 1) model taxa, 2) tools and indicators, 3) odonate-centered work, and 4) methodological issues and improvements (field sampling, data modeling/simulation, conservation/landscape-scale genetics). We found more reliance on field-based observational approaches than experiments and model-driven exercises, although the number of papers using model-driven exercises is rapidly increasing. We found a strong focus on adult stages, odonate assemblages, the Odonata as a whole, and studies of particular species. We identified research priorities in areas such as ecological valuation and management, monitoring and assessment, climate change and landscape planning, concordance with other taxa, effects of urbanization, data modeling/simulation, and rare-species ecology and conservation. To help establish an identity and facilitate communication, we suggest naming this diverse realm applied odonatology. We think applied odonatology has a good future for a range of topics from conservation genetics and population ecology to assessments of anthropogenic impacts and the conservation of biodiversity.
10.1086/678483|Biogeochemical studies done to elucidate sedimentwater transfer of solutes and benthic reaction rates in limnic and marine ecosystems often rely on the study of porewater distribution and temporal dynamics of target solutes and subsequent diagenetic modeling. Hydrophilic poly-ether-sulfone (PES) membranes are used increasingly often to sample soil and sediment porewater because they are versatile and easily adapted to field studies in benthic biogeochemistry. Nevertheless, possible interference with components of filtered water by membrane surface properties impedes accurate measurement of concentrations of solutes in filtrates. We identified and described NH
10.1086/680037|In streams and rivers, the benthic and hyporheic regions harbor the microbes that process many stream-borne constituents, including O
10.1086/679616|Mediterranean fluvial systems are subject to severe drought/rewetting cycles. These extreme periods modify the direction and magnitude of the water fluxes between the stream surface water and the riparian ground water, enabling exploration of the abrupt changes affecting dissolved organic matter (DOM). We investigated the variability in DOM concentration and composition over a drying and rewetting period in a streamriparian groundwater system. We analyzed dissolved organic C (DOC) and N (DON), and bioavailable DOC (BDOC) in whole water and 3 molecular-weight (MW) fractions (high [HMW]: >10 KDa, medium: 110 KDa, low [LMW]: <1 KDa) in surface water and riparian ground water. The quantitative differences in DOM between surface water and riparian ground water were minimal during the drying period, but were greater during the rewetting period because of notable flushing of DOC (>6 mg/L) and DON (>0.4 mg/L) in stream water. Asynchronous inputs of DOC and DON were detected in stream water during rewetting: an abrupt and brief increase (up to 32%) in DOC
10.1899/12-043.1|Nestedness measures the degree to which species assemblages are proper subsets of larger assemblages within a metacommunity. We analyzed nestedness in 20 freshwater data sets, each for a single metacommunity within a drainage basin. First, we examined the degree of nestedness across local assemblages and identified major environmental correlates of nestedness at sites. Second, we examined whether nestedness showed concordance among trophic levels. Third, we examined whether nested and idiosyncratic species (i.e., species that have unpredictable gaps in their distribution) differed ecologically and showed dissimilar distribution patterns along geographical and environmental gradients. Degrees of nestedness, obtained using a metric by
10.1086/674846|Lack of nonmicrosatellite nuclear markers that are informative at the intraspecific level has limited inferences about the phylogeography and phylogenetics of most aquatic insect taxa. Genomic resources are becoming available at an unprecedented rate and scale. Sequencing a single transcriptome (complementary deoxyribonucleic acid [cDNA] library corresponding to all messenger ribonucleic acid [mRNA] expressed at a single point in time) can generate tens of thousands of sets of overlapping DNA segments that together represent a consensus region of DNA (contigs) averaging >500 base pairs [bp] in length. A challenge posed by these large data sets is extraction of markers with population-level utility. We demonstrate proof-of-concept for using comparative transcriptomics to develop primers for multiple nuclear loci with population-level utility in
10.1086/679446|Understanding the effects of flow alteration on freshwater ecosystems is critical for predicting species responses and restoring appropriate flow regimes. We experimentally evaluated the effects of 3 dewatering rates on behavior of 6 freshwater mussel species in the context of water-removal rates observed in 21 Atlantic Coast rivers. Horizontal movement differed significantly among species and dewatering rates, but a significant species  dewatering interaction suggested that these factors influence movement in complex ways. Species differences in movement were evident only in controls and under slow dewatering rates, but these differences disappeared at moderate and fast dewatering rates. Burrowing behavior did not differ with respect to species identity or dewatering rate. The proportion of individuals that became stranded did not differ among species, but most individuals became stranded under low and moderate dewatering, and all individuals became stranded under fast dewatering. Mortality after stranding differed strongly among species along a gradient from 25% in
10.1086/681022|The Nurseryfish
10.1086/677540|The benthic foodweb structure of Lake Vrtsjrv, a large (270 km
10.1086/675782|The Detroit River is an international water body that has several fish consumption advisories for contaminants that affect human health and economic revenue for the USA and Canada. Despite the importance of these advisories, little progress has been made in developing effective management strategies or coordinating monitoring, research, and policy efforts between the 2 nations. We engaged 44 stakeholder organizations to increase community capacity on these issues for the Detroit River. We assessed capacity with key informant interviews and a network survey. Our analysis identified weak ties in information sharing and collaboration between countries. We used this information to improve stakeholder capacity, which included forming working groups that focused on system analysis, identification of priority issues, and definitions of organizational roles. Outcomes included outreach materials addressing environmental-justice issues and risk-analysis models of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) body burdens in fish. Our assessment of workshop participants with a longitudinal survey indicated that we increased network capacity and issue awareness in our stakeholders by providing new ways for them to work together. The engagement of stakeholders also improved research outcomes. By identifying stakeholder concerns related to scientific questions about consumption advisories early in the process, researchers were able to direct their efforts to generating translational research that better addressed stakeholder needs.
10.1086/682567|Genetic studies are recognized increasingly as important for understanding naturally occurring disease dynamics and are used to predict host genetic diversity and coevolutionary processes and to identify species composition in ecological communities.
10.1899/12-178.1|Zoological remains were examined from the sediments of the Pingualuit Crater Lake, Nunavik, Canada. Our objective was to describe past climate events in the area of delayed deglaciation in northernmost Ungava Peninsula. Our record covers 3 separate sections of deglacial and postglacial invertebrate dynamics interrupted by laminated proglacial sediments and a basin-scale erosive slumping event. The abundance of animal remains in the ultra-oligotrophic and extremely deep arctic lake was low, but distinct faunal assemblages were found among the intervals, results implying that they were environmentally heterogeneous. The lowermost fine-grained interval (before 6850 calibrated years before present [cal BP]), revealed that Cladocera
10.1899/11-133.1|One of the primary goals of biological assessment is to assess whether contaminants or other stressors limit the ecological potential of running waters. It is important to interpret responses to contaminants relative to other environmental factors, but necessity or convenience limit quantification of all factors that influence ecological potential. In these situations, the concept of limiting factors is useful for data interpretation. We used quantile regression to measure risks to aquatic life exposed to metals by including all regression quantiles (
10.1899/11-095.1|Headwater streams draining row-crop agriculture receive allochthonous inputs of maize detritus and grasses, but organic matter (OM) processing is not well studied in agricultural streams. Agricultural streams in the midwestern USA have incised, trapezoidal channels that retain less particulate OM than forested streams. The 2-stage ditch is a restoration strategy in which small floodplains are constructed and connected to stream channels to increase channel stability and decrease erosion. Microbial decomposition may be higher on restored floodplains because water residence times are longer than on the steep banks of trapezoidal streams. We examined decomposition of maize leaves (
10.1086/681639|We experimentally assessed the interaction between a globally invasive snail (
10.1086/681948|Eastern Mosquitofish (
10.1899/11-111.1|Springs are unique aquatic habitats that contribute significantly to local and regional biodiversity because of their high habitat complexity and the large number of different spring types. Many springs are small, but they are numerous and often of high water quality, and thus, provide habitats for species that are rare elsewhere because of their sensitivity to anthropogenic impacts (least-impaired habitat relicts). Springs are often species-rich and contain a larger number of Red List taxa than other aquatic habitats. Hydrological factors, particularly flow permanence, water chemistry, and temperature are important ecological factors determining species distribution and community composition. Despite their importance for biodiversity and water quality, springs are much less studied than other aquatic ecosystems. They also are insufficiently covered by protective legislation, often resulting in the destruction of their natural habitat. The authors of papers in this special issue describe specific spring biota, including multitaxon studies, and discuss the role of environmental factors, habitat variability at different spatial and temporal scales, and the importance of natural and anthropogenic disturbance in spring habitats. They suggest directions for future research, including defining reference conditions for springs and their role in long-term ecological research, the development of quality-assessment methods, and their more sustainable use as freshwater resources.
10.1086/676957|Resource availability and quality determine the distribution and community structure of animals in ecosystems. However, the balance between energy supply and energy consumption of species has received little attention because of the difficulty of estimating these factors. We measured the carrying capacity of a stream ecosystem in relation to the metabolic demands of Banded Kokopu (
10.1086/674936|Several freshwater fishes have disjunct (geographically discrete and widely spaced) distributions across northern Australia. We used mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (mtDNA) data and phylogeographic analyses to examine the origin of these common disjunct distributions and to test the hypothesis that they were a result of a single biogeographic event. These disjunct distributions are not perfectly shared among species, but we selected 3 species that have wide ranges with the most similar disjunct geographic overlap: Spotted Blue Eye (
10.1899/12-003.1|Incoming solar radiation is an important driver of aquatic ecosystem processes, such as gross primary production and photodegradation of organic matter. Rates of incoming solar radiation can be estimated in several ways, but their utility is limited for collecting a large number of replicate samples needed to quantify variation in light availability within and among streams. We evaluated the utility of 2 photodegrading organic dyes (rhodamine WT [RWT] and fluorescein) for measuring light exposure, especially at the level of the stream bed. We attached vials with known concentrations of the RWT or fluorescein to the stream bed and used regressions of concentration vs accumulated light to estimate photodegradation rates. Initial concentrations of RWT (20100g/L) did not affect rate of photodegradation, but RWT decay rates were 93% slower in the dark than in the light. We also tested fluorescein, which degrades faster than RWT when exposed to light and is stable when kept in the dark. On average, RWT degraded at a slower rate (3.5gL
10.1899/11-057.1|Invertebrate energy density (ED) values are traditionally measured using bomb calorimetry. However, many researchers rely on a few published literature sources to obtain ED values because of time and sampling constraints on measuring ED with bomb calorimetry. Literature values often do not account for spatial or temporal variability associated with invertebrate ED. Thus, these values can be unreliable for use in models and other ecological applications. We evaluated the generality of the relationship between invertebrate ED and proportion of dry-to-wet mass (pDM). We then developed and tested a regression model to predict ED from pDM based on a taxonomically, spatially, and temporally diverse sample of invertebrates representing 28 orders in aquatic (freshwater, estuarine, and marine) and terrestrial (temperate and arid) habitats from 4 continents and 2 oceans. Samples included invertebrates collected in all seasons over the last 19y. Evaluation of these data revealed a significant relationship between ED and pDM (
10.1086/679489|Creation of the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON) provides unparalleled opportunities for continental-scale research and synthesis in aquatic sciences. Organizers of the NEON aquatic network will equip sites at 29 streams or small rivers across bioclimatic regions of the USA to measure O
10.1899/11-101.1|Terrestrial invertebrates (TIs) provide an important trophic subsidy for many stream fishes. However, more information is needed regarding the degree to which different species rely on this subsidy and the potential consequences of altering subsidy levels. Such information is important for understanding foodweb dynamics and predicting patterns of community change as subsidy levels vary among habitats and over time. I manipulated TI inputs to experimental streams and tested for effects on diet and body condition of fishes from 3 different trophic functional groups. Study species included a TI specialist (blackstripe topminnow
10.1899/12-161.1|Dams and impoundments, both large and small, affect downstream physicochemical characteristics and up- and downstream biotic communities. I tested whether small dams and their impoundments altered downstream crayfish assemblages in northern Mississippi. I sampled crayfish and measured physicochemical variables at 4 sites downstream of impoundments (outlet sites) and 4 sites not influenced by impoundments (undammed sites) in August, September, and November 2004. In November 2010, I sampled 7 undammed, 6 outlet, and 3 intermediate sites (influenced by beaver activity or 1km downstream of an impoundment). Crayfish assemblages differed between undammed and outlet sites. Catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE) of
10.1899/10-131.1|Many physicochemical factors potentially impair stream ecosystems in urbanizing basins, but few studies have evaluated their relative importance simultaneously, especially in different environmental settings. We used data collected in 25 to 30 streams along a gradient of urbanization in each of 6 metropolitan areas (MAs) to evaluate the relative importance of 11 physicochemical factors on the condition of algal, macroinvertebrate, and fish assemblages. For each assemblage, biological condition was quantified using 2 separate metrics, nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination site scores and the ratio of observed/expected taxa, both derived in previous studies. Separate linear regression models with 1 or 2 factors as predictors were developed for each MA and assemblage metric. Model parsimony was evaluated based on Akaikes Information Criterion for small sample size (AICc) and Akaike weights, and variable importance was estimated by summing the Akaike weights across models containing each stressor variable. Few of the factors were strongly correlated (Pearson |
10.1086/681970|We conducted a survey of 170 streams distributed throughout the mountaintop-mining region of West Virginia (USA) and linked stream data to a temporally consistent and comprehensive land-cover data set. We then applied a generalized linear modeling framework and constructed cumulative effects models capable of predicting in-stream response to future surface-mine development within the context of other landuse activities. Predictive models provided precise estimates of specific conductance (model
10.1899/12-020.1|Omnivory is prevalent in terrestrial and aquatic food webs. However, the extent and seasonality of predatory feeding by omnivores in stream food webs is largely unknown. To understand better these aspects of omnivory in stream food webs, we investigated seasonal changes in the trophic positions of 2 omnivores in a small forested stream. We selected the amphipod,
10.1086/677556|Urban areas are increasing in size and human population density. The implications of widespread urbanization are apparent for a wide variety of stream organisms, but the responses of stream-dwelling salamanders to urbanization have been understudied historically. Studies on this assemblage have increased sufficiently over the last decade to warrant a review and synthesis of current knowledge. Our survey of the literature indicates a research bias toward species within the Piedmont ecoregion of the USA and a strong emphasis on changes in species richness, relative abundance, and occupancy along an urbanization gradient. Very few investigators have examined vital rates for specific life stages, population dynamics over extended periods, or mechanistic explanations for the specific aspects of urbanization that drive species loss and decline. We reviewed a broad array of literature on stream salamanders to identify the key abiotic and biotic drivers that explain species responses in urban watersheds. Based on these findings and the applied ecological literature, we identified conservation options for urban areas where decision makers and stakeholders wish to preserve stream salamanders and their habitats. We have listed 7 future research priorities that will further efforts to conserve stream salamanders in rapidly urbanizing regions.
10.1899/11-082.1|Freshwater mussels use an array of strategies to transfer their parasitic larvae (glochidia) to fish hosts. We examined the effects of temperature, photoperiod, and female gravidity on mantle lure display and conglutinate release by
10.1086/680662|Development of water-quality criteria to address eutrophication impacts on aquatic life in streams and rivers lags behind development of lake eutrophication criteria, in part, because of multiple stressor pathways, natural variability in nutrient responses between water bodies, and a lack of methods that can address this complexity. Several investigators have demonstrated significant and predictable relationships among summer nutrients, sestonic chlorophyll
10.1899/12-121.1|Raised bog pools are extremely nutrient poor and rich in humic substances, and these features limit primary production. To assess the base of the invertebrate food web in bog pools we measured the stable-isotopic signatures of primary producers, dead organic matter, and invertebrates, and the composition and stable-C-isotope ratio of their phospholipid-derived fatty acids (PLFAs). The stable-isotopic signatures showed the presence of multiple trophic levels and differential use of basal food sources by the invertebrates among and within species, individuals, and size classes. Carnivorous and omnivorous invertebrates assimilated polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) derived from algae, and possibly macrophytes, and fatty acids that are specific for methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB). Part of the bacterial biomass conveyed to higher trophic levels in the bog pools originated from MOB. Pelagic zooplankton appeared to rely more on bacteria, whereas insects relied more on algae. Periphyton, a primary algal food source, was the basal food source most depleted in
10.1899/11.058.1|I assessed effects of the widest range of temperatures ever examined on maximal food-chain length (
10.1086/674180|Restoration of riparian vegetation is widely recognized as a tool in stream rehabilitation, but information on whether local riparian characteristics can mitigate the effects of catchment-level stressors on in-stream processes is limited. We measured community metabolism in 21 streams in the Canterbury region of New Zealand along 2 independent gradients of agricultural intensity and riparian cover (from closed canopied to open canopied) to assess relative effects of landscape and local factors on stream trophic state. We measured stream metabolism with the single-station open-channel diel O
10.1086/675930|Lake benthic cyanobacteria and algae are distributed along a depth gradient. At the extremes of the gradient, irradiance is a selecting factor because of excess (UV exposure in shallow waters) or extreme reduction (light limitation at the bottom of the euphotic zone). We tested whether, how, and to what extent epilithic cyanobacteria assemblages change with depth in a carbonate meromictic lake (Lake Tovel, southeastern Alps) that undergoes marked water-level fluctuations. Fixed stations were placed along a transect at 2- to 3-m depth intervals from 0 to 24 m and were sampled by SCUBA divers. Three depth-distribution zones were identified based on the composition of cyanobacterial assemblages and primary benthic algal pigments: shallow, mid-depth, and deep. The autecological traits of the cyanobacteria indicators identified by indicator value (IndVal) analysis suggested that the shallow, mid-depth, and deep zones were disturbed by water-level fluctuations, highly stable with favorable growth conditions, and severely light-limited, respectively. The shallow zone was colonized mainly by pseudaerial cyanobacteria and by UV-resisting phenoecodemes with yellowbrown sheaths (scytonemin). ShannonWiener diversity was highest in the shallow zone, probably because taxa characteristic of periodically inundated habitats mixed with lacustrine taxa. The most unique morphospecies were in the lower part of the mid-depth and in the deep zone. These species frequently had colorless sheaths or pinkredviolet cell contents. We found clear patterns in the depth distribution of benthic cyanobacteria and algal pigments that indicated adaptation to the principal evolutionary pressures at the extremes of the depth gradient: water-level fluctuation and light attenuation. These features have implications for quality assessments, biodiversity inventories, and identification of areas affected by water-level fluctuations.
10.1086/678249|The interface between ground water and surface water in streams is a hotspot for N processing. However, the role of buried organic C in N transformation at this interface is not well understood, and inferences have been based largely on descriptive studies. Our main objective was to determine how buried particulate organic C (POC) affected denitrification and NO
10.1899/11-114.1|Emulation of natural disturbance (END) is an emerging paradigm for modern, ecosystem-based forest management in North America. On the premise that periodic disturbance is an integral part of natural, determinative processes on forest landscapes, managing forests by emulating natural disturbance is thought to produce landscape patterns that resemble those arising from natural disturbances and that are known to maintain critical processes and habitat for conserving biodiversity. Applying END principles to forest watersheds has implications for the protection of aquatic ecosystems because END can include intentional logging disturbance near water to emulate natural riparian disturbance. Literature shows that logging in watersheds, and especially in riparian areas, can lead to negative abiotic and biotic effects in aquatic ecosystems. However, an integration of the current understanding of landwater linkages in forest watersheds with general disturbance ecology would suggest that periodic watershed and riparian disturbances may be natural renewal processes that are required for long-term sustainability of aquatic ecosystems. Previous syntheses of END in forestry failed to consider the implications for aquatic ecosystems, and most forest-management guidelines default to the protection of water resources by systematic riparian (shoreline) buffers. This paper introduces the concepts of END and provides a theoretical basis for using intentional riparian forest disturbance to sustain aquatic habitat complexity and ecosystem integrity.
10.1086/680381|Introduced predators in donor food webs can disrupt the flow of prey to consumers in recipient food webs. We used mesocosms in a desert spring to investigate how an invasive fish predator, Western Mosquitofish (
10.1899/10-037.1|An increasing number of recent investigations of a wide range of species have considerably changed perspectives in spring ecology. However, relatively little is known about the differences between the eucrenon and assemblages in downstream habitats. We studied changes in environmental conditions and in 4 taxonomic groups along a downstream continuum. Assemblages of diatoms, other benthic macroalgae including cyanobacteria, macroinvertebrates, and bryophytes were compared among eucrenal, hypocrenal, and epirhithral stations in 2 spring-fed streams of the southeastern Italian Alps. Environmental factors were less variable at the eucrenal station than at downstream stations, but this pattern was not reflected by an equivalent response of biotic assemblages. The eucrenon clearly differed from assemblages at downstream stations in ways that varied between taxonomic groups and time. Diatom and macroinvertebrate assemblage compositions were more variable at the eucrenal station than at downstream stations. Space was a more important factor than time for diatoms and benthic macroalgae, whereas space and time were almost equally important for macroinvertebrates. Downstream changes were inconsistent between taxonomic groups, and a larger number of spring-fed streams must be studied to detect more generally valid patterns in downstream variation of different taxonomic groups.
10.1086/680518|Hydrology is a fundamental factor influencing ecosystem dynamics, life-history strategies, and diversity patterns in running-water habitats. However, it remains unclear how hydrology may structure the taxonomic and functional composition of communities, especially in systems with high spatiotemporal variability in flow. We examined invertebrate diversity from 7 desert streams in the Huachuca Mountains of southeastern Arizona, USA, that span a flow permanence continuum from highly intermittent to perennial. We examined the relative roles of flow permanence, habitat size, season, and microhabitat in determining taxonomic and functional structure (according to 7 species traits compiled for 234 taxa) of these communities. We predicted that both functional and taxonomic diversity would be positively related to flow permanence and negatively related to the duration and number of stream drying events. As predicted, increased flow permanence was associated with increased functional richness, functional evenness, and taxonomic richness. Conversely, drying events reduced functional diversity across all measured indices. We found a saturating relationship between functional richness and taxonomic richness, indicating functional redundancy in species-rich communities, which may promote resilience of ecosystem function to environmental variation. Our study adds further evidence that hydrology is a key determinant of aquatic invertebrate diversity, and that stream hydroperiod strongly influences both functional and taxonomic diversity in arid-land streams.
10.1899/10-060.1|Like all headwater systems, springs have been increasingly modified by multiple land uses, but the effects of these modifications on species diversity and community composition are poorly understood. We assessed the consequences of forestry-related disturbance (mainly draining) on benthic macroinvertebrate and bryophyte diversity and community composition in boreal springs. We used predictive modeling (
10.1899/12-110.1|Small dams enhance the development of patchy microenvironments along stream corridors by trapping sediment and creating complex streambed morphologies. This patchiness drives intricate hyporheic flux patterns that govern the exchange of O
10.1086/682669|Many dragonfly species in The Netherlands declined in the 20
10.1899/11-025.1|Understanding species temperature tolerances in the context of concurrent environmental stressors is critical because thermal regimes of freshwater ecosystems are changing. We evaluated the critical thermal maximum (CTM) of 3 freshwater mussel species (
10.1086/683682|Mediterranean ecosystems of California are characterized by high interannual variability in precipitation and susceptibility to frequent high-severity wildfires. Variability in precipitation and fire severity are likely to become more pronounced because of climate change, but their relative effects on linked aquaticterrestrial components of Mediterranean ecosystems have received limited attention. We investigated the effects of wildfire on riparian spiders of the family Tetragnathidae, which are common shoreline consumers that can be highly reliant on aquatic food resources in stream ecosystems. From 20112012, we assessed stream geomorphology; density and community composition of aquatic benthic macroinvertebrates; and density, Hg body loads, trophic position (TP), and reliance on aquatically derived energy (based on naturally abundant C and N isotopes) of tetragnathid spiders in study sections of 12 paired stream reaches in Yosemite National Park. The riparian zone of one member of each pair had experienced a high-severity wildfire, whereas the riparian zone of its counterpart had experienced a low-severity fire. After the 2013 Rim Fire, we resurveyed a subset of these variables in study sections of 4 reaches by means of a paired before-aftercontrol-impact design. We also explored how reach- and catchment-scale variability might affect spider density and trophic dynamics. Differences in spider responses between paired sections were not statistically significant, but model-selection results suggested that variability in benthic invertebrate density, catchment-scale fire frequency, and precipitation were important drivers of spider density and TP. The consistent signal of precipitation across multiple spider responses suggests that climate variability could have greater effects on aquaticterrestrial ecological linkages than the influence of fire alone.
10.1086/679514|Reach-scale stream restoration with natural channel design is often used to improve stream ecosystem structure and function. Some investigators have studied the effects of restoration on the hyporheic zone, but most used space-for-time substitution instead of comparing the same reach before and after restoration. We examined spatial patterns of hyporheic exchange rates and geochemistry during base flow in a 30-m poolrifflepool sequence before and 1 y after the stream was restored by installation of a cross-vane and engineered rock-riffle. Prerestoration vertical hyporheic exchange rates were relatively uniform across the riffle bedform. Average downwelling was 30 cm/d at or upstream of the riffle, and average upwelling was 30 cm/d downstream of the riffle. Downwelling hyporheic exchange rates increased up to an order of magnitude adjacent to the cross-vane and in the engineered rock-riffle. Prerestoration porewater [NO
10.1899/11-037.1|Springs are characterized by consistent thermal and hydrologic conditions, which enable use of spring-inhabiting organisms as sensitive indicators of biogeochemical changes in their catchments. We hypothesized that bryophytes would show a stronger response than vascular plants to changes in spring water quality because submerged bryophytes do not take up compounds from the soil. We analyzed species responses to interannual changes in spring water quality (discharge, water temperature, electrical conductivity, and pH) in 57 forest springs over 4 consecutive years. We calculated interannual turnover in species composition for bryophytes and vascular plants with the BrayCurtis dissimilarity index. We applied regression analysis to test interannual changes in species composition of the taxonomic groups over time, and we used 2-sided
10.1086/679757|The effect of proglacial groundwater systems on surface hydrology and ecology in cold regions often is neglected when assessing the ecohydrological implications of climate change. We present a novel approach in which we combined 2 temperature-tracing techniques to assess the spatial patterns and short-term temporal dynamics of groundwatersurface-water exchange in the proglacial zone of Skaftafellsjkull, a retreating glacier in southeastern Iceland. Our study focuses on localized groundwater discharge to a surface-water environment, where high temporal- and spatial-resolution mapping of sediment surface and subsurface temperatures (1015 cm depth) were obtained by Fiber-Optic Distributed Temperature Sensing (FO-DTS). The FO-DTS survey identified temporally consistent locations of temperature anomalies at the sedimentwater interface, indicating distinct zones of cooler groundwater upwelling. The high-resolution FO-DTS surveys were combined with calculations of 1-dimensional groundwater seepage fluxes based on 3 vertical sediment temperature profiles, covering depths of 10, 25, and 40 cm below the lake bed. The calculated groundwater seepage rates ranged between 1.02 to 6.10 m/d. We used the combined techniques successfully to identify substantial temporal and spatial heterogeneities in groundwatersurface exchange fluxes that have relevance for the ecohydrological functioning of the investigated system and its potential resilience to environmental change.
10.1899/11-134.1|Detritus processing is driven by a complex interplay between macroinvertebrate and microbial activities. Bioturbation/feeding activities of invertebrates in sediments are known to influence decomposition rates. However, direct effects of invertebrates on bacterial communities and detritus processing remain ill-defined, mainly because identifying interactions between invertebrates and sediments is methodologically challenging. We incubated 5 macroinvertebrate species with various bioturbation/feeding traits separately in sediment-filled microcosms inoculated with bacterial communities for 5d. At the end of the experiment, we assessed: 1) detritus processing (mass loss on ignition [LOI] and dissolved organic C accumulation in the overlying water [absorbance at 280nm]), 2) bacterial community structure (intergenic spacer analysis [RISA]) and bacterial activity (electron transport system activity [ETSA]), and 3) development of redox potential (Eh) over time (with permanently installed microelectrodes). Invertebrates enhanced bacterial activity and detritus processing, and the magnitude depended on bioturbation/feeding traits. Bacterial community structure differed significantly between microcosms with burrowing invertebrates and microcosms with sediment-dwelling invertebrates. Eh profiles were similar among microcosms with invertebrates with similar bioturbation/feeding traits, but differed among microcosms with invertebrates with dissimilar bioturbation/feeding traits. Our results suggest that bioturbation by aquatic invertebrates mediates detritus processing, Eh dynamics, and structure of the microbial community. These findings highlight the significance of bioturbation and show the utility of spatiotemporal Eh dynamics as footprints reflecting functioning of benthic detrital food webs.
10.1086/678673|Sewage effluents are recognized as one of the most common sources of river degradation. However, very few investigators have tried to evaluate ecosystem recovery after cessation of wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) discharge. Our goals were to: 1) analyze invertebrate community responses to chemical water quality and habitat changes after wastewater treatment improvement, and 2) evaluate the abilities of taxonomy-based and trait-based approaches to detect and explain community recovery processes in a multistressor context. We studied the benthic macroinvertebrate community of 3 sites of a heavily impaired stream (the Vistre River, France) during a 4-y period that included the decommissioning of a deficient WWTP (WWTP-A) and the commissioning of a new one (WWTP-B). We assessed the recovery of the benthic community by comparing observed taxonomic and trait-based (i.e., functional) metrics at the study site to values estimated with information from least-impaired reaches of the same river type. Most taxonomy-based characteristics of benthic communities subjected to WWTP-A recovered in 3 mo, but the recovery time of several trait-based characteristics was 2 y. No change was observed in taxonomic and trait-based diversity during the 4-y study. Taxonomy-based metrics detected the first signs of river reach recovery rapidly, but combinations of trait-based metrics and taxonomic abundance-based metrics are more likely to identify functional recovery of invertebrate assemblages faced with water-quality improvement, even when multiple stressors impaired upstream reaches.
10.1086/683037|We describe a new species,
10.1086/676912|Body shapes of aquatic insect larvae reflect phenotypic responses to complex environmental conditions and can be used to infer habitat properties and indicate natural and anthropogenic perturbations in river ecosystems. Investigation of relationships between body shape and physical-habitat characteristics has been restricted by a lack of an objective schema for quantitative characterization of body-shape variation. We present a functional ecological framework for body-shape classification based on defined criteria. We applied a geometric morphometric (GM) approach to the general classification of body shape in 4 morphologically diverse orders, Ephemeroptera (E), Plecoptera (P), Trichoptera (T), and Odonata (O) collected from 3 sites with contrasting hydrological and hydraulic characteristics. We describe a robust classification of body shapes for E, P, and O, which possess a compartmentalized body plan, and suggest a preliminary classification for T. We compared GM body shapes with body-shape trait states available in trait databases and found discordance between the 2 classifications. We explored the value of GM body shapes to describe taxon shape structure of reference sites and to detect variation reflecting physical properties of the sites. GM body-shape classes can augment the trait states already available and enhance inference regarding habitat status. Patterns in the shape strategies of aquatic insects, particularly EPO taxa, can be used to extrapolate shape information for other taxonomic groups. GM provides a stable shape classification that can contribute to the description of different ecological strategies of aquatic insects. Expanding the scope of shape information available for many taxonomic groups can improve our understanding of how organism phenotype relates to environmental conditions and supports traits-based assessment.
10.1899/11-161.1|We investigated how dissolved inorganic N (DIN) inputs from a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) effluent are processed biogeochemically by the receiving stream. We examined longitudinal patterns of NH
10.1899/11-080.1|Intersite differences in benthic communities detected by tests of null hypotheses are used routinely to infer effects of habitat perturbation. The statistical outputs from these tests are often treated as binary results (presence or absence of detectable effects), and the sizes and potential biological importance of detected differences or effects are frequently ignored. This situation can be remedied by measuring standardized effect sizes of detected differences. To demonstrate the benefits of standardized effect sizes, we compared benthic communities in streams draining forested and perturbed catchments based on kick-net samples, and samples from bricks and HesterDendy multiplate samplers. We complemented null hypothesis testing by calculating standardized effect sizes (Cohens
10.1086/683038|Blooms of the benthic alga,
10.1899/11-099.1|Near-shore sediments support the most productive and diverse biological communities in lakes and are the sites of intense biogeochemical activity. Understanding what drives temperature and short-term temperature variability in near-shore sediments is important because benthic organisms and processes are temperature-dependent. I compared sediment and near-bottom water temperatures throughout the growing season (MaySeptember) at 5 shallow near-shore sites in Lake Opeongo (Ontario, Canada). These sampling sites were more or less exposed to hydrodynamic forces and had different sediment characteristics but were not influenced by groundwater flow. The sediments were cooler than the overlying water column, especially in spring. Sediment temperature tracked water temperature and, therefore, was variable over short time scales (hd). Temperature changes in near-shore sediments were smaller and slightly delayed compared to those in the overlying water. Over a whole season, temperature variability measured 5cm below the sediment surface was, on average, 40 to 60% lower than that observed in the overlying water. The reduction in temperature variability was related to sediment characteristics and differed seasonally. Thermal diffusivity of these near-shore lake sediments ranged over an order of magnitude (0.00060.007cm
10.1086/675226|Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcode (cytochrome
10.1899/12-187.1|In cleaning symbioses, colonization of hosts by parasites and other epibionts often varies across habitats, and this variability could influence the net effect of cleaners on host fitness. We investigated how variation in environmental fouling (i.e., epibiont colonization and accumulation of particulate matter) influenced symbiont populations and partner regulation in a crayfishbranchiobdellidan worm cleaning symbiosis. We manipulated initial worm density and environmental fouling in a laboratory experiment. We monitored the number of worms (both stocked, large worms and juvenile worms born during the experiment) and the number of worm cocoons deposited on the crayfish for 8wk. Initial worm density and fouling potential of the environment significantly affected removal of large worms by crayfish. Loss of large worms was higher in the high-initial-density and the low-fouling treatments during the 1
10.1086/676938|Collaboration is an essential skill for modern ecologists because it brings together diverse expertise, viewpoints, and study systems. The Lotic Intersite Nitrogen eXperiments (LINX I and II), a 17-y research endeavor involving scores of early- to late-career stream ecologists, is an example of the benefits, challenges, and approaches of successful collaborative research in ecology. The scientific success of LINX reflected tangible attributes including clear scientific goals (hypothesis-driven research), coordinated research methods, a team of cooperative scientists, excellent leadership, extensive communication, and a philosophy of respect for input from all collaborators. Intangible aspects of the collaboration included camaraderie and strong team chemistry. LINX further benefited from being part of a discipline in which collaboration is a tradition, clear data-sharing and authorship guidelines, an approach that melded field experiments and modeling, and a shared collaborative goal in the form of a universal commitment to see the project and resulting data products through to completion.
10.1086/681106|Top-down and bottom-up forces (consumer and resource limitation, respectively) influence biomass of primary producers and primary consumers in natural food webs. Few investigators experimentally examine both in concert, especially in the tropics. Tropical systems probably are more sensitive than temperate systems to eutrophication and other disturbances, such as destruction of riparian canopy cover, because of wide windows of ecological opportunity. We experimentally examined the relative importance of top-down and bottom-up effects at 2 sites in the Edith River in the Australian wetdry tropics during baseflow conditions. We used large fish-exclusion cages to examine top-down effects of fish, and we used nutrient-diffusing substrates to manipulate bottom-up effects of nutrients. Macroinvertebrates were significantly more abundant in fish-exclusion cages than in open control areas at both sites. At 1 site, chlorophyll
10.1899/11-120.1|We assessed the relative magnitude of various factors (year, preservation method, continent, investigator, and taxonomic level) affecting prediction of invertebrate dry mass (DM) in light of the variability of assessments of invertebrate density. We developed 34 length (L)DM relationships for Oligochaeta and 17 freshwater invertebrate families belonging to Mollusca, Crustacea, and Insecta. Comparison of our predicted DM for reference-size individuals with values from 120 other published equations revealed that 31% of predicted values were within our 95% CI and 73% were within a 2 DM range (i.e., between 0.5 and 2). Interannual differences in exponent (slope) or scale factor (intercept) of LDM relationships were detected for 6 of the 7 taxa investigated, but represented only 3% of total variance in predicted DM. Similarly, preservation methods and measured body dimension each accounted for a small (03%) fraction of total variance. Variation among investigators (1250%) and continents (117%) were more important and might have reflected methodological or regional and latitudinal differences. Increasingly precise taxonomical levels explained progressively lower proportions of the total variance, a result indicating that family or a more precise taxonomic level provided a robust estimate of most invertebrate DM even if the equations were derived from other sites. However, overall variability induced by LDM relationships was smaller than variability in total invertebrate density among replicate samples (coefficient of variation [CV] = 1997%), a result indicating that more effort should be devoted to improving the accuracy of invertebrate density estimates than to developing site-specific LDM relationships to assess benthic biomass in freshwater.
10.1086/677554|Small, permanent streams are at risk of becoming stagnant or intermittent because of hydrological changes induced by climate change, which can be further intensified by anthropogenic disruptions, such as water abstraction. Macroinvertebrate communities are vulnerable to such changes because they depend on stream hydromorphological regime. We conducted a fully controlled field experiment in 1 impacted and 1 unimpacted Danish lowland stream with contrasting nutrient availability. We used dams and diversions to create short-term (210 wk) stagnant and drought conditions, and we installed pools in the drought area to test their value as refugia for benthic macroinvertebrates. After 2 wk, community composition had changed significantly in all treatments in both streams. The abundance of Chironomidae increased and the abundance of mayflies (
10.1899/11-066.1|Anthropogenic activities increase rates of N input to the environment, and loss of this N is controlled by several factors, including denitrification. Streams are the initial receptors of terrestrial N, but the extent to which variability in stream denitrification rates are related to differences in microbial community structure are largely unexplored. In our study, the rate of denitrification and taxonomic and functional gene diversity and abundance were examined in 3 Indiana (USA) streams with differing amounts of watershed agriculture. Taxonomic and functional gene diversity were measured using terminal restriction length polymorphisms of the 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) and nitrous oxide reductase (
10.1086/674874|Uptake and storage by biofilms facilitate the ability of streams to act as sinks for inorganic nutrients. Quantifying P fluxes over short time periods is important for understanding physiological responses to nutrient inputs, but few researchers have examined spatial and temporal variability in patterns of short-term biofilm nutrient uptake. We sampled intact stream biofilm assemblages seasonally (autumnsummer) across a spatial productivity gradient (8 streams in 2 provinces [Plateau and Piedmont] in Pennsylvania, USA) and tested responses to a P source over the first few minutes of exposure to resolve changes in initial assimilatory kinetics in short-term radiotracer experiments. We estimated P uptake and efflux rates with local regression (LOESS) and found distinct breakpoints in P fluxes. Mean maximum uptake occurred at 1.65 and 2.60 min, whereas maximum efflux occurred at 4.51 and 4.62 min in Piedmont and Plateau provinces, respectively. Biofilm nutrient content and accumulation rates were strong predictors of P uptake and efflux. P uptake and efflux differed between provinces (
10.1899/11-068.1|Dryland rivers are globally widespread and regionally important, and understanding their ecology is critical for sustaining ecosystem processes and biodiversity. The dry tropics are characterized by episodic summer rainfall. Most of annual river flow occurs in a short period of time, after which rivers typically contract into a series of waterholes of varying permanence and hydrologic connectivity. We investigated how seasonal environmental factors affected macroinvertebrate assemblage composition in dry-tropics rivers at the river, site, and habitat scales. We assessed biophysical characteristics, including water physicochemistry, riparian-zone condition, and macroinvertebrate assemblage composition at 15 sites on 4 unimpounded rivers in the Burdekin catchment, north Queensland, Australia. We used permutational analysis of variance and multiresponse permutation procedures to identify differences between a priori groups, and illustrated the results with principle components analysis (biophysical data) and nonmetric multidimensional scaling (invertebrate assemblage data). Biophysical variables were spatially and temporally variable, and all rivers and most sites differed significantly. Macroinvertebrate assemblages also differed significantly among rivers, sites within rivers, habitats, and seasons. Assemblages from the same habitat but different sites were more similar than assemblages from different habitats within the same site. Thus, the dynamic environment of dryland river systems drives naturally dynamic and variable macroinvertebrate assemblages across a range of scales. The differences among sites from the same river were of particular importance from a monitoring standpoint because they indicated that extrapolating whole-river condition from a few sampled sites would be difficult.
10.1086/683426|Peatlands are found around the world and cover 3.4% of the Earths surface. In the UK, peatlands cover 17.2% or 1.58 Mha of the land surface and occur mainly in upland areas covering the headwaters of most major British rivers. However, large areas are now subject to prescribed vegetation burning despite policy guidance that recommends a strong presumption against burning on deep blanket peat. Wildfires occur sporadically but are forecast to increase in frequency in the future. This paper provides a synthesis of current knowledge about how UK peatland-dominated river catchments respond to fires caused by prescribed vegetation burning and uncontrolled wildfire. We provide insight into the effects of fire on the hydrology, biogeochemistry, and biota of peatland river ecosystems, and the peatland-soil-driven controls on these effects at the catchment scale. Burning increases the depth to water table and water-table variability, although some small-scale studies indicate shallower water table in some places. More work is needed on fire effects on peatland river flow, but recent results suggest a complex response with smaller flow peaks for burned systems associated with most rainfall events, but enhanced peaks compared to unburned systems for the top quintile of rainfall events with the largest total rain. Evidence from biogeochemical studies suggests that fire leads to increased dissolved organic C concentrations in rivers. River biota responses primarily include significant reductions in the density of grazing mayflies but increases among detritivores including Chironomidae and
10.1899/12-072.1|The relationship between the widespread and common oligochaete
10.1086/677883|During the past century, the Kootenai River, Idaho (USA), has experienced cultural oligotrophication following extensive levee construction, channelization, wetland drainage, and impoundment. A multiyear, whole-river nutrient-addition experiment was undertaken to mitigate these effects. The river was dosed with liquid agricultural-grade ammonium polyphosphate fertilizer (10-34-0) from June through September 20062010 to achieve an in-river total dissolved P (TDP) concentration of 3.0 g/L. A fine-scale monitoring program included 8 sites over a 20-km reach (2 upstream control sites, one injection site, and 5 downstream treatment sites). Nutrient addition did not significantly increase N and P concentrations in the water column, but it significantly increased chlorophyll accrual rates and densities of edible green algae and diatoms. Nutrient addition significantly reduced NO
10.1086/683432|Wildfire frequency and intensity are expected to increase as a result of climate change, but few studies have assessed the effects of wildfires on stream ecosystem processes. The aim of our study was to examine the long-term responses of leaf-litter breakdown to wildfire in a Mediterranean stream. Riparian canopy cover was reduced by a fire, resulting in higher temperatures and light levels and reduced leaf-litter inputs in the stream 8 y after the fire. Benthic invertebrate communities recovered quickly after the fire, and the abundances of different functional feeding groups (FFGs), including shredders, were not different between streams affected and unaffected by the fire after >2 postfire years. We compared microbially mediated (fine-mesh bags) and total breakdown rates (coarse-mesh bags) of
10.1899/11-135.1|I collected stoneflies (PlecopteraPerlidae) across gradients of elevation and stream size within a 274-km
10.1086/682073|Hines emerald dragonfly
10.1086/682421|Communities have an important role to play in the protection of urban streams, particularly with how stormwater runoff from their properties is managed. As part of a larger research project, we used 3 sequential approaches to engage communities in protecting their local creek by managing their properties stormwater runoff. We assessed their success through surveys and measurements of uptake. Our initial efforts elicited strong interest from the community, but participation rates were greatest when the application process was simplified and barriers to participation were removed. The sequential implementation of the approaches limits inference of their comparative effectiveness, but the results suggest that the iterative and adaptive nature and extended period of the process facilitated the targeting of diverse motivations and the building of community trust, which in turn led to greater community participation.
10.1899/11-094.1|Designing management strategies based on the emulation of natural disturbance (END) to promote long-term sustainability of riparian forests and their adjacent aquatic ecosystems is an evolving process. Conceptually, the goal of END in riparian forest management is to mimic, to the extent possible, natural disturbance processes within the range of natural variability of the ecosystem while accounting for both temporal (frequency) and spatial (size) scales of the disturbance. The application of END in riparian forests has been evaluated in a limited but growing number of studies. From these studies, the idea has emerged that END could be used as a
10.1086/678771|Although used in many jurisdictions around the world, analytical approaches of the Reference Condition Approach (RCA) to bioassessment of freshwater ecosystems have evolved quite slowly over the past 2 decades. For this special series of papers in
10.1086/683241|The Grand River is a 7
10.1086/682565|Municipalities often play the principal role in the management of urban stormwater runoff. Dominant approaches involve routing urban stormwater runoff directly to streams, which has negative impacts on waterway health. Alternative management approaches, such as low-impact drainage management, have the potential to protect or restore urban streams, but remain rarely used. The Yarra Ranges Council (YRC), a municipality in Melbourne, Australia, collaborated with a team of researchers to construct stormwater-harvesting schemes, infiltration systems, and other measures (e.g., low-flow filters for water-quality treatment), as part of a catchment-scale experiment on low-impact drainage management. We held a workshop to elicit views of staff across a range of departments on insights gained from the experiment. We also gathered information on the design and construction of works to support findings from the workshop. Over time, research collaboration increased the capacity of YRC in low-impact drainage management. This increased capacity was linked to the temporary assignment of one of the researchers to work in the municipalitys engineering department. The researcher increased the confidence and trust of YRC in the use of new stormwater-management technologies. This temporary assignment into YRC helped support the long-term nature of the collaboration, which built trust over time. Our results support the views of scholars that civil experimentation can improve the capacity of municipalities to implement alternative approaches to urban stormwater management, with the aim of protecting or restoring streams.
10.1086/680724|Ecologists increasingly use threshold elemental ratios (TERs) to explain and predict organism responses to altered resource CP or CN. TER calculations are grounded in diet-dependent growth, but growth data are limited for most taxa. Thus, TERs are derived instead from bioenergetics models that rely on simplifying assumptions, such as fixed organism CP and no P excretion at peak growth. We examined stoichiometric regulation of the stream insect detritivore
10.1899/12-049.1|Nutrient enrichment affects bacteria and fungi associated with detritus, but little is known about how biota associated with different size fractions of organic matter respond to nutrients. Bacteria dominate on fine (<1mm) and fungi dominate on coarse (>1mm) fractions, which are used by different groups of detritivores. We measured the effect of experimental nutrient enrichment on fungal and bacterial biomass, microbial respiration, and detrital nutrient content on benthic fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) and coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM). We collected FPOM and CPOM from 1 reference and 1 enriched stream. CPOM substrates consisted of 2litter types with differing initial C:nutrient ratios (
10.1899/12-031.1|We used in situ nutrient-enrichment experiments at sites in 4 Texas streams spanning a steep nutrient gradient to test the hypothesis that periphyton photoautotrophs and heterotrophs are differentially limited by N and P, respectively. We contrasted the responses of total periphyton biomass (ash-free dry mass [AFDM]), photoautotrophic biomass (chlorophyll
10.1899/12-056.1|Identification of ecological thresholds is important both for theoretical and applied ecology. Recently,
10.1086/680442|Encroachment by woody vegetation is a major threat to tallgrass prairie streams, and converts them from open- to closed-canopy systems. This change presumably shifts the relative importance of basal resources from autochthonous to allochthonous and may alter functional feeding group composition and production of consumers. Riparian trees were removed from 2 headwater stream reaches on the Konza Prairie Biological Station to examine effects of forest encroachment and removal. Removal reaches were compared to reaches with naturally open and closed canopies before and after manipulation. Benthic organic matter and macroinvertebrates were sampled monthly for 1 y before (year 1) and after (year 2) riparian forest removal. Total secondary production in removal reaches ranged from 8.9 to 10.2 g ash-free dry mass (AFDM) m
10.1899/10-038.1|The traditional and widely used ecomorphological spring classificationpool springs (limnocrenes), seepages (helocrenes), and flowing springs (rheocrenes)is based mainly on the flow regime at the spring mouth. This clear distinction is based purely on environmental conditions, but how and to what extent these spring typologies are reflected by biological assemblages consisting of different taxonomic groups remains largely untested. Classification of habitats typically is based on one or few taxonomic groups. However, groups are likely to differ in their response to the environment, so different, equally valid classifications might result with different groups. We evaluated the responses and their congruence of a wide range of taxonomic groups to different spring types. Eighty-six springs in the Italian Alps were first classified based on environmental factors only. The consistency of this classification was tested using diatoms, bryophytes, vascular plants, nematodes, mollusks, oligochaetes, water mites, copepods, ostracods, chironomids, stoneflies, and caddisflies. When only environmental variables were used, 7 spring types were distinguished: limnocrenes and helocrenes, low- and high-altitude rheocrenes on carbonate rocks, rheocrenes on siliceous rocks, rheocrenes with high discharge, and hygropetric rheocrenes. This classification was reflected by most taxonomic groups, and many species were characteristic for 1 spring type. However, the predictive power of the environment for determining species distribution was generally low, a result suggesting that other factors may play an important role in structuring spring assemblages. Concordance among taxonomic groups was found for 2 macrogroups of organisms: autotrophs (diatoms, bryophytes, and vascular plants) and heterotrophs. This result shows that achieving a general classification of springs relevant across all taxonomic groups would be difficult.
10.1086/674173|The ecological effects of water hyacinth (
10.1899/12-129.1|The effects of nutrient enrichment on aquatic ecosystems have been well documented, but less is known about how these effects vary in response to additional stressors. I used experimental mesocosms to assess how nutrient enrichment affected zooplankton density and community structure in the presence and absence of invasive zebra mussels (
10.1899/11-045.1|Development of radio frequency identification (RFID) technology and passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags has substantially increased the ability of researchers and managers to monitor populations of aquatic organisms. However, use of transportable RFID antenna systems (i.e., backpack-mounted) is currently limited to wadeable aquatic environments (<1.4m water depth). We describe the design, construction, and evaluation of a boat-mounted RFID antenna to detect individually PIT-tagged benthic aquatic organisms (mussels). We evaluated the effects of tag orientation on detection distances in water with a 32-mm half-duplex PIT tag. Detection distances up to 50cm from the antenna coils were obtained, but detection distance was dependent on tag orientation. We also evaluated detection distance of PIT tags beneath the sediment to simulate detection of burrowing mussels with 23- and 32-mm tags. In sand substrate, the maximum detection distance varied from 3.5cm and 4.5cm (vertical tag orientation) to 24.7cm and 39.4cm (45 tag orientation) for the 23- and 32-mm PIT tags, respectively. Our results suggest a 1.4-m total detection width for tagged mussels on the substrate surface by the boat-mounted antenna system regardless of tag orientation. However, burrowed mussels may require multiple passes to increase detection that would be influenced by depth, tag orientation, and tag size. Construction of the boat-mounted antenna was relatively low in cost (<500 USD) and had several advantages (less labor and time intensive, increased safety) over traditional mussel sampling techniques (diving, snorkeling) in nonwadeable habitats.
10.1899/12-100.1|Global climate change threatens to affect negatively the structure, function, and diversity of aquatic ecosystems worldwide. In alpine systems, the thermal tolerances of stream invertebrates can be assessed to understand better the potential effects of rising ambient temperatures and continued loss of glaciers and snowpack on alpine stream ecosystems. We measured the critical thermal maximum (CTM) and lethal temperature maximum (LTM) of the meltwater stonefly (
10.1899/11-089|Many pharmaceutical compounds have been detected in surface waters, but their effects on stream ecosystem function are not currently understood. Concentrations of cimetidine, a widely used antihistamine, have increased in streams and rivers. Invertebrates may be affected by exposure to cimetidine because they use histamines to regulate olfactory and stomatogastric function. Primary producers, such as algal biofilms, also may be affected by cimetidine, which may in turn, alter metabolism and ultimately invertebrate population dynamics. We conducted a long-term (83d) experiment in artificial streams to measure the chronic effects of cimetidine on benthic biofilm function and stream invertebrate growth and population dynamics. We exposed 2 common invertebrate species,
10.1899/11-043.1|Burrowing benthic organisms promote water and solute fluxes across the sedimentwater interface. Water and solutes penetrate the burrow walls and are transported into/out of the sediment when organisms flush their burrows with overlying water. Few studies have been done to investigate bioirrigation under shifting environmental conditions. We experimentally quantified bioirrigation by
10.1086/681541|Considerable attention has been paid to the potentially confounding effects of geological and seasonal variation on outputs from bioassessments in temperate streams, but our understanding about these influences is limited for many tropical systems. We explored variation in macroinvertebrate assemblage composition and the environmental characteristics of 3
10.1086/680038|The distribution of biota in aquatic ecosystems, including aquifers, is collectively influenced by habitat structure, water quality, seasonality, and local variations in environmental conditions. However, little is known about the nature and relative influences of such factors in groundwater ecosystems. Our aims were to identify the key environmental variables influencing the distribution of biota within the Gwydir River alluvial aquifer in northwestern New South Wales, Australia, and to consider the relative importance of environmental variables, in terms of habitat structure, water quality, seasonality, and site attributes, to both microbial and invertebrate (stygofauna) assemblages. Stygofauna distribution was primarily influenced by habitat variables (predominantly sediment structure) followed by site variables (abundance of trees), with water quality and seasonality having relatively little influence. These results indicate that it is the aquifer conditions relating to habitat structure, water flow, and the supply of organic matter that are most important for determining stygofauna distribution. Microbial assemblage structure was not strongly correlated with habitat variables, possibly because habitat restraints do not exist because of their smaller size. Instead, seasonality and water-quality variables had the greatest influence on microbial assemblages. Microbes might respond to seasonal (particularly rainfall induced) changes in water quality more quickly than do stygofauna, which may explain the relatively greater importance of seasonality and water quality to microbial assemblages. Given that stygofauna are most influenced by habitat and site variables, and microbial assemblages are most influenced by seasonality and water quality, disturbance to any of these factors may threaten the stability and integrity of the groundwater ecosystem.
10.1899/12-088.1|Physical changes to rivers associated with large dams (e.g., water temperature) directly alter macroinvertebrate assemblages. Large dams also may indirectly alter these assemblages by changing the food resources available to support macroinvertebrate production. We examined the diets of the 4 most common macroinvertebrate taxa in the Colorado River through Glen and Grand Canyons, seasonally, at 6 sites for 2.5y. We compared macroinvertebrate diet composition to the composition of epilithon (rock and cliff faces) communities and suspended organic seston to evaluate the degree to which macroinvertebrate diets tracked downstream changes in resource availability. Diets contained greater proportions of algal resources in the tailwater of Glen Canyon Dam and more terrestrial-based resources at sites downstream of the 1
10.1086/683242|Hypolimnetic oxygenation is a technique used to restore oxic conditions in the summer hypolimnia of lakes, thereby reducing internal P recycling, metal flux, and increasing fish habitat. O
10.1899/12-029.1|A growing body of genes-to-ecosystems research has documented the ecosystem-level consequences of intraspecific variation in plants caused in large part by variation in chemical composition. Understanding how this genetic variation in trees might interact with elevated nutrients resulting from increases in anthropogenic deposition may give us insight into how future riparian forests might influence adjacent streams through leaf-litter deposition. We examined the effects of tree genotype, soil nutrient environment, and their interaction on aspen (
10.1086/681540|We explored the effects of introduced trout on primary and secondary producers at 2 spatial scales in 17 Andean stream reaches above 3000 m asl in 3 subbasins of the Guayllabamba watershed in Ecuador. At each stream reach, we measured trout density, biological factors, and environmental factors that might affect distribution and density of trout. We also carried out a field-inclusion experiment along a 105-m section of the Saltana stream (which has no trout), in which we introduced trout in experimental cages to assess their effects on aquatic invertebrate populations and algal biomass.
10.1899/11-091.1|Streams affected by acid mine drainage (AMD) are highly stressed ecosystems and occur worldwide. These streams typically have low pH, high concentrations of dissolved metals, and substrata coated with metal hydroxide precipitates. This combination of chemical and physical stressors creates a challenging environment for aquatic biota. We provide a synthesis of the effects of AMD on stream food webs to provide a holistic perspective of these highly stressed ecosystems. First, we reviewed the effects of AMD on the structure and function of algal, microbial, invertebrate, and fish communities. Then, we used this published information to propose generalized food webs and identify areas for future research. In general, AMD-affected streams have depauperate communities that are dominated by a few tolerant species, and ecosystem processes (e.g., decomposition) are often impaired. Biota respond differently to the individual stressors (e.g., pH compared to precipitates), which may complicate remediation efforts that focus primarily on neutralizing acidity and removing metals from mine discharges. Food webs in these streams are substantially altered because basal resources are less productive or inaccessible, microbial processing of organic matter is slow, many grazers and shredders are absent, and fish are replaced by invertebrates as top predators. Structurally, declines in species diversity and the loss of fish shorten and simplify food webs by decreasing the number of interactions among species. Functionally, most energy pathways are weakened by disrupted trophic links, and this problem should to be a key target of restoration efforts. We think research that focuses on species interactions in a foodweb context is needed to provide a better understanding of community organization and functioning in these highly stressed ecosystems.
10.1086/674796|Migratory life cycles and population structure of 2 putatively diadromous Australian fishes were examined using otolith chemistry (
10.1899/12-071.1|We hypothesized that
10.1899/11-052|Pronounced stoichiometric imbalances (CNP) between consumers and resources reported from nutrient-poor systems potentially constrain key ecological processes, but such imbalances should be less marked when more nutrients are available. In a headwater stream rich in nutrients (total P = 208g/L; total oxidizable N = 7mg/L), we determined the elemental composition and standing stock of the consumer species and basal resources in relation to taxonomic identity, feeding mode, and season (spring and autumn). Compared with previous studies, basal resources had low elemental ratios (CN and CP), reflecting the high concentrations of inorganic nutrients in the water. Nevertheless, elemental imbalances were still evident between consumers and these basal resources, particularly for organisms feeding on detritus. Some of the variation in elemental ratios among consumers could be attributed to taxonomic identity. Furthermore, detritivores typically were depleted in N and P compared to taxonomically related species with different feeding modes. Elemental ratios of primary consumers differed between the 2 sampling occasions. Collector-gatherers and scrapers had lower CP and NP and shredders had higher CN in October than in May. Basal resources (fine and coarse particulate organic matter and periphyton) made up most of the standing stock of organic N and P, but quantities varied between May and October. The elemental composition of consumers of basal resources appeared to track changes in resource availability. Even with a plentiful supply of inorganic N and P available to primary producers, the availability of elements from food (a combination of quality and quantity) may influence the elemental composition of consumers.
10.1086/682668|For dragonflies, the final exuviae are the most identifiable nymphal stage, can substitute for lethal processing of live animals, and definitively indicate life-cycle completion or reproductive success. However, dragonfly exuviae are difficult to find and identify relative to adults, and species richness in exuvial surveys is generally biased low. We tested readily acquired information in adult surveys as indicators of exuviae presence and, therefore, species residency. Repeated concurrent surveys of adults and exuviae were completed at 32 wetlands in New York and 30 wetlands in Oklahoma, USA. We modeled the occurrence of exuviae as logit-linear functions of adult abundance, detection frequency (across surveys), teneral frequency, and frequency of breeding behavior while controlling for imperfect detectability. Exuviae occupancy probabilities suggested several reliable indicators of species residency: 1) finding adults on 4 surveys, 2) finding tenerals on 2 surveys, and 3) counting >20 adults on 1 surveys (with caveats). The odds of exuviae occurrence when these conditions were met were 9 to 18 greater than when no adults were detected. Species residency may be accurately inferred during adult surveys, potentially improving freshwater applications and conservation via dragonflies.
10.1086/680011|Excess NO
10.1086/674430|The karst areas in the Dinaric region of the Western Balkan Peninsula are a hotspot of freshwater biodiversity. Many investigators have examined diversification of the subterranean freshwater fauna in these karst systems. However, diversification of surface-water fauna remains largely unexplored. We assessed local and regional diversification of surface-water species in karst systems and asked whether patterns of population differentiation could be explained by dispersaldiversification processes or allopatric diversification following karst-related microscale vicariance. We analyzed mitochondrial cytochrome
10.1086/674536|Aquatic insects are widely used as indicator taxa to assess the ecological state of streams and to evaluate the success of stream restoration projects. Information on intraspecific genetic diversity and population connectivity is often lacking for such indicator taxa. However, these parameters are of critical importance for restoration plans and conservation management because: 1) species sometimes consist of several cryptic species and 2) species can recolonize only those restored habitats within a reachable distance from their source populations. Gene flow generally cannot be observed directly, and molecular markers provide a reasonable alternative to assess the dispersal potential and evaluate species genetic diversity. We investigated the genetic diversity and dispersal potential of the predatory stonefly
10.1899/12-152.1|We examined how invasion of tropical riparian forests by an exotic N-fixing tree (
10.1086/678128|Accurate knowledge of the distribution of rare, indicator, or invasive species is required for conservation and management decisions. However, species monitoring done with conventional methods may have limitations, such as being laborious in terms of cost and time, and often requires invasive sampling of specimens. Environmental DNA (eDNA) has been identified as a molecular tool that could overcome these limitations, particularly in aquatic systems. Detection of rare and invasive amphibians and fish in lake and river systems has been effective, but few studies have targeted macroinvertebrates in aquatic systems. We expanded eDNA techniques to a broad taxonomic array of macroinvertebrate species in river and lake systems. We were able to detect 5 of 6 species (
10.1086/678949|Despite the existence of many approaches to reference-condition modeling, Bayesian statistical methods have not been used. We assessed whether a hybrid approach that combined features of existing reference-condition approaches with Bayesian model fitting and assessment of test sites could provide superior results to existing established methods. We used 4 Bayesian models of increasing complexity to develop and test reference-condition models for 5 biotic endpoints across 3 data sets. Our best models were comparable or superior to standard approaches (Benthic Assessment of Sediment, Australian River Assessment System) using the same data. Those of our models with the simplest endpoint (species richness) performed best. On average, those models with the simplest model structures also performed best, but differences in performance among models of different complexity were small. All models performed poorly at detecting the lower levels of simulated impact in the test data. However, these impacts were small relative to the variation among validation sites and consequent predictive uncertainty of the models. The Bayesian approach to reference-condition modeling shows promise as an alternative to existing methods. It also has advantages in terms of the ease of interpretation of model outputs. However, for the approach to be relevant, further development work should be driven by a perceived need to revise standard methods used by management agencies.
10.1086/675681|Data on the functional composition of invertebrates in tropical streams are needed to develop models of ecosystem functioning and to assess anthropogenic effects on ecological condition. We collected macroinvertebrates during dry and wet seasons from pools and riffles in 10 open- and 10 closed-canopy Kenyan highland streams. We classified macroinvertebrates into functional feeding groups (FFGs), which we used to assess effects of riparian condition and season on functional organization. We used cluster analysis of gut contents to classify 86 taxa as collectors, predators, scrapers, or shredders. We classified 23 taxa whose guts were empty or had indistinguishable contents based on literature. In total, we identified 43 predators, 26 collectors, 19 scrapers, and 19 shredders. Total abundance was higher in open-canopy agricultural streams, and species richness was higher in closed-canopy forested streams. Predators and shredders dominated richness and biomass, respectively, in the closed-canopy streams. The shredders,
10.1086/683481|Fire can transform the boreal forest landscape, thereby leading to potential changes in the loading of organic matter and nutrients to receiving streams and in the retention or transformation of these inputs within the drainage network. We used the Tracer Additions for Spiraling Curve Characterization (TASCC) method to conduct 17 nutrient-addition experiments (9 single additions of NO
10.1899/11-131.1|Floristic studies indicate the abundance of microalgae in northern boreal peatlands, but we know relatively little about their ecology or how they will respond to changes in environmental conditions expected in this region as climate changes. We examined changes in algal community structure at sites exposed to a long-term water-table manipulation, including drought (lowered water-table treatment), flooding (raised water-table treatment), and control (no manipulation) treatments in an Alaskan fen. In previous years, continuous algal colonization typically would have occurred only in the raised water-table treatment, but a spring flood inundated experimental plots and provided a unique opportunity to examine algal community response to rewetting after long-term drought. This event allowed us to investigate how much ecosystem memory of the antecedent water-table manipulations regulated the ability of taxa to recolonize sites after prolonged drought compared to sites that had been continuously flooded. Despite no differences in water-table position among treatments at the time of sampling, surface-water nutrient concentrations were higher in the lowered water-table treatment relative to the other treatments after the spring thaw. This difference corresponded with greater algal abundance and biovolume in the lowered water-table treatment relative to the control and raised water-table treatments. Higher abundance and biovolume was driven mainly by filamentous green algae (Chlorophyta), especially
10.1086/680523|Development of effective methods for assessing the ecological status of lakes based on littoral benthic fauna has been hampered by the lack of quantitative data on the relative impacts of key pressures on the benthic community. We used variance partitioning at 126 sites belonging to 14 natural Mediterranean lakes to analyze the pure and shared effects of eutrophication, morphological alterations, microhabitat type, lake morphometry and geographic position on the littoral macroinvertebrate community. The spatial arrangement of the sampling sites was responsible for 9.1% of the total variance in littoral benthic community composition, lake morphometry accounted for 4.3% of variation, and microhabitat type accounted for 3.9%. Communities appeared to be affected primarily by morphological alterations to lake shorelines, and their impact was 2.5 times as important as that of eutrophication. The structure of littoral benthic communities was governed by processes acting at several spatial scales from region to lake scale. Thus, several pressures and the various spatial scales at which these act should be taken into account when implementing methods of assessing lake ecological condition based on littoral benthic invertebrates. Region-specific methods for subalpine and volcanic lakes might enhance the validity of assessment of results of morphological alterations and improve management of those water resources.
10.1086/675508|Disturbance of freshwater ecosystems through cultural eutrophication has resulted in an increased global occurrence of harmful algal blooms (HABs). Ecosystem disrupting algal blooms (EDABs) are a subset of HABs that produce extensive disturbances across entire ecosystems.
10.1086/677767|Channelized streams are common in North American agricultural regions, where they minimize water residence time and biological nutrient processing. Floodplain restoration done via the 2-stage-ditch management strategy can improve channel stability and nutrient retention during storms. We examined the influence of floodplain restoration on whole-stream metabolism by measuring gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER) for 1 y before and 4 y after restoration of an upstream, unaltered control reach and a downstream, restored reach. Both reaches were biologically active and dynamic. GPP ranged from 0.1 to 22.1 g O
10.1899/13-008.1|Identifying the ecological mechanisms that determine foodweb structure is critical for understanding the causes and consequences of diversity. Food-chain length (FCL) is a product of the biotic interactions within a community and the environment, but how environmental variation affects FCL is not well understood. We examined how gradients of ecosystem size and environmental variation in hydroperiod affected the FCL of ponds. Using C and N stable isotopes, we found that average FCL was 3.3 and varied by 3 trophic levels across ponds and years. We showed that ponds with shorter hydroperiods have shorter food chains, and that FCL is not strongly influenced by ecosystem size. These results demonstrate support for the dynamic constraints hypothesis, which states that less-predictable environments should have shorter food chains. Our data are not consistent with the prediction of the ecosystem size hypothesis that larger ecosystems have longer food chains. Insect and amphibian richness increased with increasing pond size and hydroperiod, results indicating that insertion of new species into the pond communities is a driving mechanism causing variation in FCL. Omnivory could explain variation in FCL, but our results show that the incidence of omnivory was similar across the environmental gradients. Ours is one of the few empirical studies to link structural changes in the food web with variability in FCL. We showed that temporal variation and species composition shape pond communities and influence foodweb structure.
10.1086/675933|Western Michigans inventory of natural resources includes Great Lakes sand dunes; grasslands; forests; wetlands; lakes, rivers, and streams; shorelines and riparian habitats; and unique farmland. All of these environmental assets are under continuous threat of fragmentation and development, and numerous efforts have been undertaken to protect them. Many of these local and regional efforts include some level of stakeholder involvement. Collaboration between scientists and local decision makers to address complex environmental-policy problems is not new, and emphasis on stakeholder communication and participation in watershed management and policy development has been increasing. We examined the differences in tackling natural resource management issues through community and academic partnerships at the local and regional levels from the views of 3 researcher participants in 2 case studies. We used the engagement framework outlined in van Kerkhoff and Lebel (
10.1899/12-066.1|Dispersal is an essential process in metapopulation and metacommunity dynamics. Most studies of aquatic invertebrate dispersal in streams have focused on in-stream drift of larvae. However, understanding aerial dispersal is important for predicting community assembly in isolated habitats after disturbance or stream restoration. We used artificial pools placed at 3 distances (5, 75, and 250m) from 1 perennial and 1 ephemeral arid-land stream to examine aerial-dispersal dynamics of aquatic invertebrates over a 6-wk period in summer 2009. We also conducted a 2-wk experiment to examine the relationship between daily rainfall and disperser abundance at the perennial site. Sixty-six aquatic invertebrate taxa (including many Coleoptera and Diptera and fewer Hemiptera, Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and noninsect taxa) colonized the artificial pools. They represented  of taxa documented from neighboring perennial streams. Abundance and species richness declined with distance away from both streams. This result suggests that ephemeral stream channels may serve as important aerial dispersal corridors for aquatic invertebrates even when no surface water is present. Mean species richness tripled after 58mm of rain during the 4
10.1086/677176|Changing rainfall patterns resulting from climate change are predicted to influence cyanobacterial blooms and associated production of toxins and other metabolites, but few studies have demonstrated this link. We explored seasonal and interannual trends in 2-methylisoborneol (MIB) concentrations and the correlation of these data with rainfall and hydrologic data from 2000 to 2013. We also conducted a detailed study of cyanobacterial abundances and MIB during 2 hydrologically extreme years, a prolonged drought in 2007 followed by an extremely wet year in 2008. The goal was to assess whether cyanobacterial abundances and explanatory variables that are often correlated with cyanobacterial abundances were useful predictors of MIB concentration. From 2000 to 2013, mean annual rainfall was negatively related to mean annual MIB (
10.1086/681278|The ephemeral rivers in northern Australia break up into a series of waterholes during the long, dry summer season. These in-stream waterholes provide vital habitat for the survival of aquatic biota during this period. We describe how high-time-resolution (20 min) waterhole temperature measurements made in the Flinders and Gilbert Rivers in tropical northern Australia were used to derive thermal frequency curves that show how often waterhole temperature exceeded any given temperature threshold. During the summer period, temperatures near the surfaces of waterholes were often above that suitable for the optimum growth of some tropical fish (31C). At the bottom of waterholes, this exceedance occurred less often, and in turbid waterholes that were stratified, temperatures rarely exceeded this threshold. Temperatures that could be lethal to some fish (34C) also were exceeded at the surface of waterholes, but rarely, if ever, at the bottom of waterholes. An energy-balance model was used to estimate daily mean waterhole temperature with good accuracy (1 K) at all but the sites where wind speed may have been >2 m/s (assumed in the model). The model also was used to predict the effects of climate change on waterhole temperature and the change in exceedance of thermal thresholds. A 2 K climate warming raised waterhole temperature by 1 K. However small this increase might seem, it led to a doubling of the length of time water temperatures were in excess of thresholds around 31C.
10.1086/679300|On riverine flood plains, reorganization by fluvial processes creates and maintains a mosaic of aquatic and riparian landscape elements across a biophysical gradient of disturbance and succession. Across flood plains of gravel-bottom rivers, spring brooks emerge from points of groundwater discharge that may occur in distinct landscape positions. We investigated how ecosystem processes in spring brooks differ spatially across biophysical zones, reflecting how landscape position dictates severity of flood disturbance, allochthonous loading from riparian forests, and inputs from groundwater systems. Between July and October 2011, we quantified aspects of ecosystem structure and function among 6 spring brooks of the Nyack flood plain, Flathead River, Montana. Structural features varied predictably across near-channel (i.e., parafluvial) and late successional (i.e., orthofluvial) biophysical zones. Large wood standing stocks increased >40 (0.199.19 kg/m
10.1899/11-177.1|We developed a series of models using landuse and water-quality variables to predict sediment P release rates under anoxic conditions in reservoirs. We collected sediment cores from 17 reservoirs in the Central Plains region of the USA, and we measured nutrient release rates under anoxic conditions in laboratory incubation studies. We used corresponding landuse and water-quality data from the reservoirs to develop regression models for predicting P release rates. We used variables that relate directly to trophic state, including % cropland in the watershed, which explained the greatest amount of variation in release rates. P release rates tended to be higher in reservoirs that had greater % cropland in the watersheds. We developed additional predictive models using surface total P concentrations and Secchi disk depths. Trophic state was also a good predictor of release rates because more P was released from hypereutrophic reservoirs than from mesotrophic or eutrophic reservoirs. The median release rates for reservoirs representing different trophic state classes (e.g., mesotrophic, eutrophic, and hypereutrophic) were very similar to those previously reported for natural lakes. Our models can be used to predict sediment release rates in individual reservoirs of concern or to screen a large number of reservoirs to help direct resources to those systems that are most vulnerable to internal loading. Models based on landuse characteristics are particularly valuable because these data can be obtained from computer-based assessments and do not require labor-intensive field sampling.
10.1086/676914|The chironomid Benthic Quality Index (BQI) is a widely used metric in assessments of lake status. The BQI is based on 7 indicator taxa, which like most profundal fauna, often occur sporadically in low densities. Hence, a major weakness of the index is that it cannot be calculated when indicator taxa are not captured. Thus, an extension of the BQI that incorporates more macroinvertebrate taxa is desirable. We used 2 statistical approaches (Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Weighted Averaging) to estimate new benthic quality indicator scores for profundal macroinvertebrate taxa and to construct modified BQIs called Profundal Invertebrate Community Metrics (PICMs). We calibrated the PICMs and evaluated their bioassessment performance with macroinvertebrate and environmental data from 735 lake basins in Finland. Both PICMs included 70 taxa and could be calculated for a substantially greater proportion (99.5%) of sites than the original BQI (83.5%). Compared to the BQI, the PICMs were more strongly correlated with whole-community variation and were more predictable from environmental factors independent of human activities in undisturbed reference lakes. PICMs were more specific in identifying undisturbed lakes and more sensitive in discriminating nonreference from reference lakes. The strength of relationships to total P concentration was equal among indices. These results suggest that the extension of BQI to incorporate more taxa will increase generality, accuracy, and representativeness of lake profundal macroinvertebrate assessment.
10.1086/682687|Loss and fragmentation of habitat is a current main cause of biodiversity loss in freshwater habitats. Odonates (dragonflies and damselflies) depend on these habitats to complete their development. Fragmentation may be a particular threat for odonates because it generates a network of small habitat patches within which populations could suffer from isolation and loss of genetic diversity. The southern damselfly
10.1086/682210|Many investigators have described a footprint of global environmental change in macroecological trends across multiple taxa. However, little comparative analysis has been done to evaluate whether some taxa are responding more than others. I tested 2 hypotheses: 1) taxa vary strongly in terms of range shifts and phenological advances in their responses to changing climate, and 2) taxa that shift ranges also advance phenology. I used an initial database of >4 million recorded sightings of UK animal species from 24 orders and found descriptions of range shifts for 612 species and phenological trends for 923 species. I compared the 2 responses for 464 species and found wide variation in the extent to which taxa are responding. Vertebrate taxa were the least well recorded and showed weak or nonsignificant responses. Invertebrates were well recorded and responded strongly in range and phenology, but evidence of an association between range shifts and phenological advances was equivocal. My results show that different taxa are exhibiting different responses to the same environmental change, and that mechanistic and traits-based studies may reveal the causes of that variation. Spatial responses may be constrained by mode of dispersal, and insects and arachnids typically respond strongly, whereas terrestrial vertebrates do not. Phenological responses are complex and may involve species-specific physiological relationships between development and seasonal cues. Use of a model taxon could increase efficiency of monitoring regimes by simplifying monitoring targets and techniques. Potential exists for 1 taxa to be indicators of climate change, whereby the responses of one or a group of species could be used to infer changes at a broader taxonomic scale. I highlight Odonata as a taxon that responds strongly in multiple modalities, is charismatic enough to appeal to citizen scientists, and is an emerging physiological and genetic model.
10.1899/12-093.1|Elevated suspended solids are a widespread stressor of aquatic ecosystems, but their effects on growth and reproduction in freshwater mussels are largely unknown. We fertilized experimental ponds to create a gradient in total suspended solids (TSS) and examined the effects of TSS on growth, nutritional status, reproduction, and clearance rate in
10.1899/12-112.1|The objective of our study was to compare leaf breakdown rates (
10.1086/677056|The theory of ecological stoichiometry holds that heterotrophs are mostly homeostatic and exhibit less variation in body stoichiometry than do autotrophs. Most studies of stream foodweb stoichiometry have been done in low-nutrient environments. Little is known about foodweb stoichiometry in nutrient-rich streams, in which a higher level of stoichiometric homeostasis should be expected, mainly because imbalances between resources and consumers are low and nutrient availability may meet biotic requirements. We analyzed elemental content (C, N, P) and stoichiometric ratios (CN, CP, NP) of basal resources, macroinvertebrates, and fishes in a nutrient-rich Pampean stream and compared these values to those from other studies. We manipulated P and N in a 1-y fertilization experiment to analyze biotic stoichiometric responses to additional nutrient input to this naturally enriched system. Soluble reactive P concentration in the treatment reach was doubled relative to the background concentration. Consumers had lower CP and NP than those in other lotic systems, whereas P content and CP and NP of basal resources were within the ranges observed for other systems. Most components of the trophic web were not affected by fertilization, and only epiphyton, fine benthic organic matter, and 2 macroinvertebrate species (
10.1899/12-051.1|Crayfish are ecologically important in freshwater ecosystems, but few investigators have evaluated landscape patterns of their prevalence and abundance in temperate lakes. We report results of a crayfish survey for 100 lakes in the Puget Sound lowlands of Washington State (USA) serving as a census of the distributions of the signal crayfish
10.1899/11-062.1|Detrital food webs of woodland streams depend on terrestrial litter input and, thus, are susceptible to changes in riparian cover. We assessed effects of litter species richness and quality on decomposition and associated biological communities in temperate deciduous forest and tropical rainforest streams. Three native litter species were incubated in each stream in all combinations (7 litter treatments, 3 richness levels) in coarse- (invertebrate access) and fine-mesh bags (no invertebrate access) and were sampled 5 times over 74 (temperate stream) or 94d (tropical stream). Decomposition, and fungal biomass, sporulation, and species richness were measured for each treatment.
10.1086/677815|Growth and longevity of freshwater mussels (Unionida) are important for defining life-history strategies and assessing vulnerability to human impacts. We used markrecapture and analysis of shell rings to investigate age and growth of the hyriid,
10.1086/679411|Highly productive ecosystems often exhibit high rates of parasitism. Theory and experimental evidence suggest that consumption of high-quality diets by hosts living in these ecosystems facilitates parasite replication, presumably by enhancing the parasites access to nutrients. However, a direct link between parasite replication and the ability to acquire nutrients from host resources has not been shown. We manipulated diet quality and quantity of field-collected infected and uninfected snails (
10.1899/11-073.1|Habitat stability is an important driver of ecological community composition and development. River epilithic biofilms are particularly unstable habitats for the establishment of benthic communities because they are regularly disturbed by floods. Our aim was to determine the influence of habitat instability on meiobenthic organisms. We hypothesized that hydrologic variables are the most important predictors of meiofauna distribution. We monitored epilithic communities (meiofauna and microalgae) with a high sampling frequency during 2 sampling periods with contrasting hydrodynamic patterns in a temperate river (the Garonne, France). Nematodes and rotifers dominated meiofaunal assemblages. The critical flow velocity threshold for their maintenance in the biofilm was 30cm/s, a result suggesting that meiofauna can resist higher flow velocity within the biofilm than within sediments. Nematode distribution was primarily influenced by the duration of undisturbed periods, whereas rotifer distribution was also correlated with the thickness of the biofilm. During the periods after floods, rotifers were faster colonizers than nematodes. Collectively, our results show that flow regime was an essential driver for biofilm community development.
10.1086/682060|Leaf-litter decomposition is driven by microbial and invertebrate communities and is likely to be severely affected by climate change and increased water abstraction and diversion. The occurrence, frequency, and severity of drying events are increasing in rivers worldwide. These events are a major threat to aquatic microbial communities and their contribution to riverine biogeochemical processes. A growing body of evidence suggests a dramatic reduction in litter processing rates and microbial activity during emersion. We hypothesized that leaf-litter decomposition would be less affected by high than low emersion frequency (characterized by longer emersion periods between immersion events, assuming a constant emersion duration). We exposed
10.1086/676998|Insect emergence is a fundamental process in freshwaters. It is a critical life-history stage for aquatic insects and provides an important prey resource for terrestrial and aquatic consumers. Sticky traps are increasingly being used to sample these insects. The most common design consists of an acetate sheet coated with a nondrying adhesive that is attached to a wire frame or cylinder. These traps must be prepared at the deployment site, a process that can be time consuming and difficult given the vagaries of field conditions. Our goals were to develop a sturdy, low-cost sticky trap that could be prepared in advance, rapidly deployed and recovered in the field, and used to estimate the flight direction of insects. We used 150-mm Petri dishes with lids. The dishes can be coated cleanly and consistently with Tangle-Trap
10.1899/12-035.1|Floodplain rivers have been conceptualized as patchwork mosaics of hydrogeomorphic zones that differ in hydrological, physiochemical, and ecological conditions. However, few investigators have empirically examined the extent to which basic ecological properties of large rivers, such as nutrient concentrations, are patchily distributed or the relationship between such distributions and water-mediated connectivity. We used global and local measures of spatial autocorrelation in 5 reaches of the Upper Mississippi River from 19942008 in spring (higher discharge) and summer (lower discharge) to examine distributions of total N (TN), total P (TP), and TNTP for evidence of patchiness. TN was distributed as discrete patches regardless of season, but the patches of TP and TNTP were more distinct during summer low-flow than spring high-flow conditions. The occurrence of patches of high TN, low TP, and high TNTP was highly predictable, generally occurring in backwater, low-velocity (0.1m/s) environments. Patches of low TN, high TP, and low TNTP were less common and less predictable, but were more likely to occur in channels with high current velocities (>0.1m/s) or in impounded areas with low current velocity, but adjacent to channel environments. These patch distributions are consistent with our current understanding of dominant mechanisms of riverine nutrient cycling and were generally consistent across 5 river reaches that spanned nearly the entire length of a large floodplain river. Watershed characteristics ultimately determine nutrient inputs to river systems, but our results support the idea that local geomorphic and hydraulic conditions influence spatial patterns of nutrient delivery and biochemical transformation and create a patchwork mosaic of nutrient distributions within large floodplain rivers.
10.1899/12-176.1|The abundance and distribution of aquatic mesograzers may be regulated by both top-down (i.e., predator-mediated) and bottom-up (i.e., producer-mediated) effects. Under predation by fish, these herbivores may experience differential survivorship among different types of resource patches. Prey may attempt to maximize fitness by integrating information on predation risk and patch quality into foraging decisions. The freshwater amphipod
10.1086/676314|Primary production in lakes occurs in both planktonic (water column) and benthic (bottom) habitats. How whole-lake primary production is distributed between these 2 habitatsreferred to as
10.1899/12-092.1|The use of species traits in basic and applied ecology is expanding rapidly because trait-based approaches hold the promise to increase our mechanistic understanding of biological responses. Such understanding could transform descriptive field studies in community ecology into predictive studies. Currently, however, trait-based approaches often fail to reflect speciesenvironment relationships adequately. The difficulties have been perceived mainly as methodological, but we suggest that the problem is more profound and touches on the fundamentals of ecology and evolution. Selection pressures do not act independently on single traits, but rather, on species whose success in a particular environment is controlled by many interacting traits. Therefore, the adaptive value of a particular trait may differ across species, depending on the other traits possessed by the species and the constraints of its body plan. Because of this context-dependence, trait-based approaches should take into account the way combinations of traits interact and are constrained within a species. We present a new framework in which trade-offs and other interactions between biological traits are taken as a starting point from which to develop a better mechanistic understanding of species occurrences. The framework consists of 4 levels: traits, trait interactions, trait combinations, and life-history strategies, in a hierarchy in which each level provides the building blocks for the next. Researchers can contribute knowledge and insights at each level, and their contributions can be verified or falsified using logic, theory, and empirical data. Such an integrated and transparent framework can help fulfill the promise of traits to transform community ecology into a predictive science.
10.1899/12-014.1|A new species of the genus
10.1086/682686|Human-induced climate change is among the greatest threats to biodiversity, especially when coupled with habitat destruction. For an already water-stressed country like South Africa, changes in temperature and precipitation regimes, coupled with increasing water demands, are likely to lead to losses in biodiversity. Dragonflies are a well-studied surrogate taxon for aspects of freshwater biodiversity. We created species distribution models for 14 dragonfly species, and predicted the changes in species richness, extent of occurrence, and habitat suitability for the years 2050 and 2080 in South Africa, a poorly studied area for range-change predictions for insects. Model predictions for 2 different emissions scenarios suggest that at least 2 species will be lost from the area by 2050, and 3 by 2080. All are widespread Afrotropical species, but with narrow elevation ranges in South Africa. Only 1 species is predicted to benefit greatly from climate change. The remaining species are predicted to persist with reduced extents of occurrences at higher elevations. Most species we studied (12 of 14) thrive in artificial environments. Therefore, to a certain extent, loss in connectivity is unlikely to play a role for these species. However, the 2 stream specialists that occur in the area are particularly vulnerable because of loss of habitat. Species that currently occur farther north in southern Africa and South Africa also are likely to move southward in the future. Thus, species richness may not necessarily decrease, but replacement of species within communities will be significant.
10.1086/680985|Coupled processing of N and C in headwater wetlands can strongly affect downstream water quality. To understand how wetlands affect dissolved N and C concentrations in surface waters and the factors that influence changes in concentration, we measured landscape and physicochemical variables and dissolved N and C concentrations at the in- and outflows of 10 headwater wetlands in a suburban watershed (New Hampshire, USA) over 18 mo. We analyzed changes () in dissolved N and C concentrations (outflow  inflow) with linear mixed-effects models. A pulse in N
10.1899/11-098.1|The importance of understanding the mechanisms underlying insecticide disturbances in natural systems is growing because of increasing global insecticide use. Despite the prevalence of pesticides and the vulnerability of aquatic systems to insecticides, little is understood about the effect of lower concentrations of insecticides (<1ppm) on aquatic community interactions. Whether insecticide effects are generalizable across different aquatic assemblages and trophic levels also is unclear. Furthermore, few investigators have examined the indirect consequences of insecticides beyond the primary consumer level. We examined how a single application of malathion at 3 concentrations (0, 6, or 40g/L) and the presence or absence of zooplankton predators (larval salamanders) affected aquatic communities composed of zooplankton, phytoplankton, periphyton, and 2 geographically distinct amphibian assemblages from Oregon and Pennsylvania. At these concentrations, malathion was directly lethal to certain zooplankton species, causing a shift from cladoceran-dominated assemblages to copepod-dominated assemblages. The decrease in cladoceran abundance released top-down pressure on phytoplankton, allowing an increase in phytoplankton abundance. The increase in phytoplankton was associated with a decrease in periphyton (the major food source of anurans) because of competition between phytoplankton and periphyton. We did not find direct mortality in anurans or salamanders, but the insecticide-mediated reduction in zooplankton indirectly caused a decrease in larval salamander mass. In contrast, anurans exposed to malathion were heavier at metamorphosis. Overall, these results demonstrate that low concentrations of insecticides have indirect consequences on nontarget members of the community across multiple trophic levels, and the indirect insecticide-mediated effects are generalizable across 2 geographically distinct amphibian assemblages.
10.1086/682287|Odonata are valuable biological indicators of freshwater ecosystem integrity and climate change, and the northeastern USA (Virginia to Maine) is a hotspot of odonate diversity and a region of historical and growing threats to freshwater ecosystems. This duality highlights the urgency of developing a comprehensive conservation assessment of the regions 228 resident odonate species. We offer a prioritization framework modified from NatureServes method for assessing conservation status ranks by assigning a single regional vulnerability metric (R-rank) reflecting each species degree of relative extinction risk in the northeastern USA. We calculated the R-rank based on 3 rarity factors (range extent, area of occupancy, and habitat specificity), 1 threat factor (vulnerability of occupied habitats), and 1 trend factor (relative change in range size). We combine this R-rank with the degree of endemicity (% of the species USA and Canadian range that falls within the region) as a proxy for regional responsibility, thereby deriving a list of species of combined vulnerability and regional management responsibility. Overall, 18% of the regions odonate fauna is imperiled (R1 and R2), and peatlands, low-gradient streams and seeps, high-gradient headwaters, and larger rivers that harbor a disproportionate number of these species should be considered as priority habitat types for conservation. We anticipate that our analysis might serve as a model for guiding and standardizing conservation assessments at multiple scales for Odonata and other diverse taxa that have not yet received attention to prioritization.
10.1086/682077|The ecological status of subtropical floodplain lakes is threatened by eutrophication, which can shift lakes from a clear, macrophyte-dominated equilibrium state to a turbid, phytoplankton-dominated state. Such a shift is reflected in their macroinvertebrate assemblages, which may serve as good indicators of long-term changes in such lake ecosystems. We conducted a survey of benthic macroinvertebrates in 20 lakes in the Yangtze floodplain that were disconnected from the river channel to identify invertebrate response patterns along a gradient of eutrophication. Macroinvertebrate assemblages changed in parallel to the observed regime shift of a subgroup of those lakes. The most abundant groups were epiphytic invertebrates (e.g., Bithyniidae) in the macrophyte-dominated lakes and pollution-tolerant invertebrates (e.g., Tubificidae,
10.1899/11-040.1|Stream indicators used to make assessments of biological condition are influenced by many possible sources of variability. To examine this issue, we used multiple-year and multiple-reach diatom, fish, and invertebrate data collected from 20 least-disturbed and 46 developed stream segments between 1993 and 2004 as part of the US Geological Survey National Water Quality Assessment Program. We used a variance-component model to summarize the relative and absolute magnitude of 4 variance components (among-site, among-year, site  year interaction, and residual) in indicator values (observed/expected ratio [O/E] and regional multimetric indices [MMI]) among assemblages and between basin types (least-disturbed and developed). We used multiple-reach samples to evaluate discordance in site assessments of biological condition caused by sampling variability. Overall, patterns in variance partitioning were similar among assemblages and basin types with one exception. Among-site variance dominated the relative contribution to the total variance (6480% of total variance), residual variance (sampling variance) accounted for more variability (826%) than interaction variance (512%), and among-year variance was always negligible (00.2%). The exception to this general pattern was for invertebrates at least-disturbed sites where variability in O/E indicators was partitioned between among-site and residual (sampling) variance (among-site = 36%, residual = 64%). This pattern was not observed for fish and diatom indicators (O/E and regional MMI). We suspect that unexplained sampling variability is what largely remained after the invertebrate indicators (O/E predictive models) had accounted for environmental differences among least-disturbed sites. The influence of sampling variability on discordance of within-site assessments was assemblage or basin-type specific. Discordance among assessments was nearly 2 greater in developed basins (2931%) than in least-disturbed sites (1516%) for invertebrates and diatoms, whereas discordance among assessments based on fish did not differ between basin types (least-disturbed = 16%, developed = 17%). Assessments made using invertebrate and diatom indicators from a single reach disagreed with other samples collected within the same stream segment nearly  of the time in developed basins, compared to  for all other cases.
10.1086/679467|Droughts are unpredictable disturbances characterized in streams by declining flow, reduced habitat availability, and deteriorating abiotic conditions. Such events typically reduce benthic invertebrate taxon richness and modify assemblage composition, but little is known about how hyporheic invertebrate assemblages respond to drought or how these responses relate to changes in benthic assemblages. We hypothesized that taxon richness ( diversity) and variability (as within-site  diversity) in benthic assemblage composition would decline as drought proceeded, whereas concurrent changes in hyporheic assemblages would be lower in this more stable environment. We predicted that benthic assemblage composition between sites would converge as epigean taxa were selectively eliminated, whereas between-site hyporheic  diversity would change little. We sampled benthic and hyporheic invertebrates concurrently from 4 sites along a groundwater-fed stream during the final stages of a severe supraseasonal drought punctuated by a record heat wave. Abiotic conditions in benthic habitats deteriorated as flow declined, but changes were less pronounced in the hyporheic zone. Benthic  diversity declined during drought, whereas hyporheic  diversity changed little. However, benthic within-site  diversity increased as the drought progressed because of localized variation in the abundance of common taxa. Temporal trends in hyporheic  diversity were less consistent. Benthic assemblages at individual sites became more similar, especially during the heat wave, reflecting low  diversity and abundance. Hyporheic assemblages changed markedly because of temporary increases in abundances of epigean and hypogean amphipods. These contrasting responses of benthic and hyporheic assemblages to drought should be recognized when developing management strategies for drought-impacted streams.
10.1086/674526|Elevation gradients allow scientists to observe changes in fauna over a range of abiotic conditions. A variety of trends in aquatic insect diversity patterns across elevation have been reported. However, many of these studies are confounded because they include streams at lower elevations, which are often larger in size and more polluted than their higher-elevation counterparts. Moreover, such studies always relied solely on morphological delineation of taxa, thereby potentially overlooking cryptic diversity. We reduced these limitations by sampling only minimally impacted wadeable streams across an elevation gradient and by combining morphological taxonomy with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding to identify taxa. We collected numerically abundant Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) from single streams at 200-m elevation intervals across >1000-m transects in 3 watersheds draining the eastern slope of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Based on morphology alone, we identified 49 numerically abundant EPT morphospecies across 26 sites. Using DNA barcoding, we found 69 distinct lineages that probably represent distinct species. EPT species richness was highest at mid-elevations, and rates of turnover along elevation transects showed no consistent elevation trend or trend among ecological zones defined by vegetation. -diversity across sites at comparable elevations in different watersheds showed a negative trend with increasing elevation that was marginally significant for DNA barcode taxa (
10.1899/12-005.1|We carried out a set of experiments in a small clear-water lake in northern Sweden during summer 2010 to assess the effect of organic C (OC) released from epipelic algae on pelagic bacterial production (BP). The release rate of OC (dissolved and particulate) from epipelic algae was 45.4ng C m
10.1086/682051|Cenotes (sink holes) are karstic formations characteristic of the Yucatn Peninsula and are the main source of fresh water in the region. Because of their tropical location, they receive high levels of solar radiation and are exposed to high temperatures. However, the effect of these global-change-related variables on phytoplankton in cenotes is unknown. We carried out experiments with phytoplankton communities collected from 2 cenotes differing in their penetration of solar radiation (Leona Vicario [LV]: turbid, Las Mojarras [LM]: clear) to assess the combined effect of solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR; 280400 nm) and increased temperature on their photosystem (PS) II photochemistry. We exposed samples in microcosms to solar radiation (with and without UVR) and 2 temperatures (ambient = 25C and increased by 3C) and analyzed photochemical performance over daily cycles. A significant antagonistic interaction between UVR and temperature in LV caused a combined inhibition of the effective photochemical quantum yield (
10.1086/676634|In ephemeral streams, floods can temporarily connect isolated pools and provide otherwise spatially restricted organisms with the option to stay in or leave a pool. A field survey of the middle-eastern fire salamander (
10.1899/11-048.1|Benthic algae were used to identify reference conditions of springs for bioassessment purposes. Benthic algae and environmental factors were quantified in 70 springs (nonthermal and mostly near-natural) in the southeastern Alps. Spring types were identified by fuzzy clustering of nondiatom, benthic algal assemblages. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) and indicator species analysis (IndVal) were used to identify the most relevant environmental determinants of taxonomic composition in springs and to characterize the ecological traits of key taxa. A total of 120 macro- and microscopic benthic pro- and eukaryotic algae (excluding diatoms) were identified. Cyanobacteria (especially Chroococcales and Oscillatoriales) were strongly prevalent. Seven spring types were identified by fuzzy clustering of nondiatom, benthic algal assemblages. IndVal identified 22 taxa that were significant indicators of spring type, and fuzzy clustering based on environmental preferences identified 18 other important taxa associated with spring type. Spring types differed in environmental features, species richness, and diversity. Mid-to-high altitude, oligotrophic, carbonate flowing springs (rheocrenes) with medium conductivity were the most common spring type and were characterized by shade-tolerant (Chroococcales) or rheophilic (
10.1086/683062|Alpine glacier-fed river hydrology, chemistry, and biology can vary significantly in space and over diurnal to interannual time scales as a function of dynamic inputs of water from snow, ice, and ground water. The sensitivity of biota to these water-source dynamics potentially makes them susceptible to hydrological changes induced by anthropogenic activities, such as flow regulation, but most alpine studies have been focused on intact rivers during summer only. We examined the spatiotemporal dynamics of physicochemical habitat and macroinvertebrate assemblages in a high-altitude (>2000 m) floodplain in the European Alps over an 18-mo period. We present a novel insight into the river system and macroinvertebrate assemblage responses to natural glacier-melt-driven expansioncontraction of unregulated river sites and to intermittent flow pulses caused by hydropower regulation. Mainstem glacier-fed sites had cyclical seasonal dynamics in macroinvertebrate assemblage composition that shifted to be partly reminiscent of groundwater tributaries in winter then back to melt water in the following spring. Significant unimodal relationships were found between glacial influence and macroinvertebrate assemblage density, richness, Simpsons diversity, evenness, and  diversity. These relationships suggest that glacial influence can positively affect biodiversity where glacier melt water mixes with nonglacial water and habitat diversity is maximized. Regulation-induced flow pulses led to inconsistent responses among macroinvertebrates, with no significant effects in summer 2008 but increased density and decreased taxonomic richness in 2009. Assemblage composition was unaffected by reservoir releases despite significant increases in water temperature and discharge at these times. The effects of alpine river management for hydropower production on macroinvertebrate assemblages in this river system appear to be relatively minor, but further studies should be undertaken in other alpine locations to assess the generality of this finding.
10.1086/681623|Traits-based community analyses are receiving increasing attention. However, consistent interpretation of empirical results and ecological understanding in stream ecology are limited by ambiguous terminology. Furthermore, the measurement scales used to analyze trait data, especially ordinal-scale data, are often inappropriately applied. We identify and discuss these shortcomings and offer a solution for an operative and algebraically correct treatment of traits and a unified nomenclature that facilitates direct comparison among traits-based studies. A unified terminology allows for logical translation among existing, alternative trait nomenclatures and should facilitate communication of research findings among stream ecologists and more directly connect stream traits-based research with general ecology.
10.1086/674341|Identifying mechanisms of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) tolerance is an important step in understanding the direct and indirect effects of UVR exposure on aquatic organisms. We used laboratory exposure experiments and a solar exposure experiment to evaluate mechanisms of UVR tolerance in the freshwater snail,
10.1899/12-054.1|Self-purification is a key ecosystem service provided by riverine biota that is particularly important in polluted water bodies serving multiple societal uses, but the extent to which self-purification may be influenced by human uses is unknown. We studied a eutrophic lowland river used for drinking water and recreation to identify the maximal sustainable extent of human use. We recorded filtration by mussels and modeled the disturbance to mussels caused by wave action induced from recreational boating. Filtration was significantly affected by shear stress produced from boats down to a depth of 2.7m. Threshold values for the intensity of wave disturbance ranged from 0.21N/m
10.1899/12-063.1|Three enduring conceptual models make predictions regarding the basal production sources supporting the upper food web of rivers: the River Continuum Concept, the Flood Pulse Concept, and the Riverine Productivity Model. Sources of primary production supporting metazoan biomass might best be understood by using a pluralistic approach that views basal sources as a dependent variable and key physicochemical and hydrological factors as independent variables. Here, I review studies in which chemical markers (stable-isotope and fatty-acid analyses) were used to estimate dominant primary producers contributing to consumer biomass in large rivers and evaluate associated independent variables (e.g., hydrologic regime, turbidity, concentration of dissolved organic matter, floodplain vegetation, lateral connectivity, and upstream impoundment) that have been hypothesized to contribute to variation in basal production sources. My review shows that C
10.1899/11-141.1|Light, nutrient availability, and flow are strong factors controlling the elemental composition and biomass of epilithon in temperate stream ecosystems. However, comparatively little is known about these relationships in tropical streams. We investigated how gradients of light and nutrient availability, seasonality, and habitat influenced epilithon biomass, chlorophyll
10.1086/674983|The factors influencing the habitat requirements and dispersal of juvenile Unionidae (unionids) between post-larval detachment from a fish host and burrowing into the substratum are largely unknown, although bed shear stress (
10.1086/681094|The pressures of a growing population and a fluctuating economy have caused extensive landuse transformations in the Colombian Andes, and >63% of the natural land cover has been replaced by cattle and crop fields. Despite the obvious importance of agriculture as a driver of stream degradation, the specific effects of agriculture on low-order streams of the Andean region are poorly understood. We used aquatic macroinvertebrates as indicators of biological integrity and applied structural equation modeling (SEM) to explore mechanisms through which local agricultural practices degrade headwater streams of the Colombian coffee-growing region. Our results suggest that agriculture affects the aquatic macroinvertebrate community indirectly by increasing the concentration of NH
10.1086/681009|Soil C is a key factor influencing soil health and, by inference, ecosystem condition. In arid and semi-arid regions, soil moisture limits accumulation and decomposition of soil C. On floodplains, soil moisture can come from rainfall events or periodic flooding. The effect of flooding on soil C decomposition has received some attention in the literature but mostly through the study of agricultural systems or mesocosms. Field studies of actual floods are not common. We measured soil C response to a managed flood on a semi-arid lowland river floodplain in southeastern Australia before and after inundation at control (unflooded), floodplain (low hydraulic energy), and flood runner (high hydraulic energy) sites. At control sites, soil C changed little from before to 16 d after the onset of the flood. At flooded sites, most measures of soil C (total soil organic matter [floodplain sites only], permanganate-oxidizable C, persulfate-extractable C, water-extractable C [flood runner sites only], microbial C, and root material) were lower 16 d after than before the flood. However, the activity of key hydrolytic exo-enzymes associated with soil C decomposition did not change. Following the initial decline in soil C at the flooded sites, soil properties remained essentially constant for the remainder of the flood. Upon flood recession, slight increases in C pools occurred at the flood runner site (possibly associated with the formation of debris dams) but not at the floodplain or control sites. The changes in soil C pools after flood recession were at least an order of magnitude lower than those observed at the same location during more extended flooding. We argue that the loss of soil C associated with short-duration floods may adversely affect ecosystem condition of lowland river floodplains. Managed floods should be of long enough duration (months) to promote the growth of submerged and emergent aquatic macrophytes on the floodplain because aquatic macrophyte production is an important source of soil C after flood recession in lowland river floodplains.
10.1086/678700|Permafrost disturbance (shoreline retrogressive thaw slumping [SRTS]) causes solute-rich terrestrial inputs to Arctic tundra lakes. Eight upland tundra lakes (3 undisturbed [U], 5 disturbed [D]) in the Inuvik region of the Northwest Territories, Canada, were sampled to assess the effects of SRTS on benthic invertebrate community structure, abundance, and whether localized SRTS effects in D lakes could be discriminated by comparing samples taken adjacent to (Da) or further from (Do) the disturbance. Community composition and abundance differed between U and D lakes. Macroinvertebrates were more abundant in areas adjacent to SRTS (Da) than in areas away from SRTS (Do), but community composition did not differ between Da and Do areas. Abundance was >2 greater in D than in U lakes. Ostracoda abundance was 4 greater in D than U lakes and 2 higher in Da than Do areas. Nematoda abundance was 10 higher in D than U lakes, whereas Chironomidae abundance was lower in D than U lakes. Bivalvia and Oligochaeta had similar abundance in D and U lakes, and both groups were more abundant in Da than Do areas. Differences in abundance and community composition were related primarily to higher concentrations of Ca
10.1086/682118|Fish and aquatic plants influence aquatic invertebrate assemblages in shallow temperate lakes, but estimating their relative influence is difficult because invertebrates respond to multiple factors operating simultaneously at various temporal and spatial scales. Co-correspondence analysis (CoCA) may prove useful for clarifying community relationships. We sampled assemblages in 104 shallow lakes in 5 study areas across 4 ecological regions of Minnesota, USA. We used CoCA to test for patterns among aquatic invertebrates, submerged plants, and fish. After controlling for influences of fish with CoCA, we used direct gradient analysis to assess influences of study area, lake state (turbid or clear), and watershed size on the abundance of zooplankton and macroinvertebrates. CoCA indicated high co-correspondence between fish and macrophytes across study areas, with weaker associations among zooplankton, macroinvertebrates, and fish. After removing the effects of fish, zooplankton and macroinvertebrates showed different relationships to environmental variables. Lake state and study area explained significant remaining variance in zooplankton, whereas study area and relative abundance of macrophytes explained remaining variance in macroinvertebrates. Among-lake patterns in submerged macrophytes were associated with fish presence and abundance. Invertebrates were related to lake state, fish abundance, and extent of submerged aquatic plants, and patterns differed between zooplankton and macroinvertebrates and among study areas. Species-level relationships among invertebrates, fish, and macrophytes were weaker than community-level patterns described in previous studies. This result suggests that community-scale influences of fish and submerged macrophytes on aquatic invertebrates may be strong and may mask species-level relationships in shallow lakes.
10.1086/683431|We studied the effects of wildfires in southern California on stream algal communities and their responses to nutrient enrichment. The intensity of scouring floods, concentrations of nutrients during ensuing rains (413 increases depending on nutrient), and postflood sediment deposition were greater at sites in burned than in unburned basins (UN sites). Postfire storms reduced algal biomass >10 more at sites in burned than in unburned basins. After the fire and subsequent floods, algal biomass, particularly of
10.1086/674982|Species delimitation (grouping individuals into distinct taxonomic groups) is an essential part of evolutionary, conservation, and molecular ecology. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcodes, short fragments of the cytochrome
10.1899/11-155.1|Rapid human population growth engenders landuse changes and alters nutrients, algal biomass (as chlorophyll
10.1086/675734|Recruitment from dormant stages in the benthos can provide a critically important inoculum for surface populations of phytoplankton, including bloom-forming cyanobacteria. For example, water-column populations of the large (13-mm diameter) colonial cyanobacterium
10.1086/684095|Wood is a key structural element in aquatic ecosystems. Wood provides habitat complexity, alters geomorphology, retains organic and inorganic material, promotes hyporheic flow, and acts as substrate for biofilms and invertebrates. Fire is an important disturbance promoting wood recruitment into inland waters, but most studies have focused on streams in western North America. Less is known about fire-derived wood dynamics on other continents or in lake environments. Here, we review fire effects on the recruitment, distribution, and function of in-stream wood, with emphasis on a series of studies from the Euro-Mediterranean. The amount of large wood in these streams was low and is expected to decline in the future because of wildfire. Wildfire engendered inputs of wood with low structural complexity, probably reducing habitat heterogeneity for aquatic organisms. Fire also provided wood with greater diameter than wood recruited by other means, but its longevity may be shorter because burned wood was more decayed and less anchored in the channel than unburned wood. Wood delivery processes are important because macroinvertebrate colonization differed between fire-derived wood that fell directly into the river and wood conditioned first on the forest floor. We present a case study describing wood dynamics in a lake after a wildfire in northern Minnesota, USA. In this study, wildfire created an area of lake shoreline with disproportionately more wood than areas unaffected by wildfire. In contrast to streams, burned wood was more complex than unburned wood in the lake system. One of the explanations may be greater scouring, abrasive action by stream flows, which breaks down burned wood faster than in lakes. Given the expected increase in the probability and severity of fire around the world, information in our review can be used to help manage riparian zones of streams and lakes.
10.1086/683121|We used a structured decision-making process to develop conservation strategies to increase persistence of Dwarf Wedgemussel (
10.1899/11-063.1|The Rio Grande supplies water for endangered biota and a burgeoning human population, but little is known about sources and cycling of nutrients through the food web of this dryland river ecosystem. We described aquatic foodweb structure at 4 sites in the Rio Grande (New Mexico, USA) based on analysis of stable isotopes of C and N as tracers of sources of primary production and trophic positions of consumers, respectively. 
10.1899/11-021.1|Midge larvae (
10.1086/677806|Selective feeding and differential nutrient excretion by aquatic invertebrates plays a substantial role in nutrient recycling. Grazing larvae of the caddisfly
10.1899/11-117.1|We measured nutrients and dissolved organic matter (DOM) in surface water and floodplain sediments to evaluate biogeochemical linkages between streams and floodplains in 3 streams of increasing size in a tropical catchment in northwestern Australia. We hypothesized that streamfloodplain biogeochemical connectivity, measured as similar DOM concentrations and spectroscopic properties of streamwater and floodplain sediment leachate, would decrease with increasing stream size. We expected decreasing connectivity to shift support of aquatic foodweb structure from mainly allochthonous C in small streams to algal C in larger streams. Streamwater and sediment leachate concentrations of NH
10.1086/678946|Confidence in any bioassessment method is related to its ability to detect ecological improvement or impairment. We evaluated Australian River Assessment (AUSRIVAS)-style predictive models built using reference-site data sets from the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), the Yukon Territory (YT; Canada), and the Laurentian Great Lakes (GL; North America) area. We evaluated model performance as ability to correctly assign reference condition with independent reference-site data. Evaluating model ability to detect human disturbance is generally more problematic because the actual condition of test sites is usually unknown. Independent reference-site data underwent simulated impairment by varying the proportions of sensitive, intermediate, and tolerant taxa to simulate degrees of eutrophication. Model performance was related to differences in data sets, such as number and distribution of invertebrate taxa. Sensitive taxa tended to have lower expected probabilities of occurrence than more-tolerant taxa, but the distribution of taxa grouped by tolerance categories also differed by data set. Thus, the models differed in ability to detect the simulated impairment. The ACT model performed best with respect to Type 1 error rates (0%) and the GL model the worst (38%). The YT model performed best (10% error) for detecting moderate impairment, and the ACT model detected all severely impaired sites. AUSRIVAS did not assign most mildly impaired sites to below-reference condition, but a reduction in observed/expected values for some of the mildly impaired sites was observed. Models did not detect mild impairment that simply changed taxon abundances because presenceabsence data were used for models. However, in comparison with other models described in this special issue (that did use abundance data), the AUSRIVAS model performance was comparable or better for detecting the simulated moderate and severe impairments.
10.1086/676657|The combination of changing climate and anthropogenic activities is increasing the probability of wildfire around the world. When fires occur in riparian zones, associated tree mortality can add wood directly to streams or wood may fall to the forest floor and remain there for some time before being transported into stream channels. Wood provides critical structure for aquatic macroinvertebrates, so our objectives were to assess the effects of wood burn status, conditioning, and their interaction on macroinvertebrate community composition, taxon and functional diversity, and trait affinities. We conducted a field experiment with pieces of freshly cut wood (length = 10 cm, diameter  7.5 cm) for which we first manipulated burn status (burned, unburned) and then, conditioned by placing burned and unburned wood directly into streams (no conditioning) or by leaving pieces in streams (water conditioning) or on the forest floor (soil conditioning) for a year before submergence. We used distance-based redundancy analysis to assess community structure by wood treatments and linear mixed-effects modeling to assess effects of wood treatments on taxon and functional diversity and trait affinity. Changes in wood quality resulting from fire may not alter macroinvertebrate community structure. Taxonomic and functional patterns of stream invertebrate colonization did not differ between burned and unburned wood, even after a year of incubation in the stream or on the forest floor. Conditioning status affected taxonomic composition, taxon and functional diversity, and trait affinities of wood invertebrate communities. The terrestrial legacy of soil conditioning was clearly important in structuring macroinvertebrate assemblages. Our results suggest that macroinvertebrate communities may be more sensitive to fire effects on the dynamics of wood input than to effects of fires on the wood itself.
10.1086/679655|Macropores are connected void spaces in the subsurface and can act as preferential flow paths for groundwater transport, but their dimensions and distribution patterns have not been well characterized in stream banks and hyporheic sediments. We ran field surveys in 5 streams of varying size, bed slope, and watershed land use in the Appalachian Mountains of southwestern Virginia. Natural surface-connected macropores were nearly ubiquitous. Macropores in this region arise by a variety of mechanisms, including soil piping, tree root decay, erosion around hardened structures, macroinvertebrate burrows, and invertebrate burrows. Macropore openings were slightly wider than tall, with median cross-sectional widths and heights of 3.5 cm and 3.0 cm, respectively. The median and maximum macropore lengths to first bend were 15.0 cm and 120.5 cm into the bank, respectively. True (tortuous) macropore lengths probably are often greater, and methods to map macropores are needed. Median interspacing of macropores across all streams was 0.38 m, but mean interspacing was 1.12 m, indicating that macropores were clustered in space. Macropores were inundated at different times because of differences in their heights on the stream bank, channel geometry, and stream stage. HEC-RAS modeling of channel hydraulics indicated that only 1 to 32% of macropores were inundated by channel water at base flow, whereas up to 97% were inundated during the largest storms. We ran conservative-tracer injection experiments at base flow in a 30-m reach of a small tributary to 1 study stream. We calculated transient-storage parameters for 2 treatments: 1 without macropores and 1 with artificially created macropores. Our results suggest that constructed macropores weakly increased transient storage (channel:storage zone cross-sectional area [A
10.1086/677038|Among terrestrial insects, there is a rich guild of specialized necrophagous taxa, i.e., that feed directly on carrion. These organisms constitute a significant functional component of terrestrial ecosystems, and have recently been extensively studied because of their importance in forensic entomology. Nothing similar exists in lotic environments, although paradoxically, insects are the most important group of invertebrates in streams and rivers, where they constitute up to 70 to 90% of benthic communities. We present some hypotheses as to why specialized necrophagous taxa have evolved among terrestrial, but not among aquatic insects. We suppose that the lack of specialized necrophagous aquatic insects was the result of many synergic evolutionary pressures, partly related to the distinctive physical features of lotic environments and partly to processes of competitive exclusion with other closely related arthropods.
10.1899/12-212.1|Taxonomic sufficiency (TS) has been proposed for assessing community composition and environmental impacts as a way to balance the need to indicate the biology of the organisms present with time and effort needed for species identification. TS has been applied most often to marine and freshwater macroinvertebrates, but tests of its usefulness are lacking for other freshwater groups. We analyzed the effects of taxonomic resolution, functional groupings, and data transformation on multivariate community patterns in periphyton, macrophytes, macroinvertebrates, and fishes, and on the quantification of biodiversity and environmental gradients. The applicability of TS differed strongly among taxonomic groups, depending on the average taxonomic breadth of the species sets. Numerical data resolution had more pronounced effects on community patterns than taxonomic resolution. Richness was strongly affected by data aggregation, but diversity indices were statistically reliable up to order level. Taxonomic aggregation had no significant influence on ability to detect environmental gradients. Functional surrogates based on biological traits, such as feeding type, reproductive strategy, and trophic state, were strongly correlated ( = 0.640.85) with taxonomic community composition. However, environmental correlations were generally lower with data aggregated to functional traits rather than to species. TS was universally applicable within taxonomic groups for different habitats in one biogeographic region. Aggregation to family or order was suitable for quantifying biodiversity and environmental gradients, but multivariate community analyses required finer resolution in fishes and macrophytes than in periphyton and macroinvertebrates. Sampling effort in environmental-impact studies and monitoring programs would be better invested in quantitative data and number of spatial and temporal replicates than in taxonomic detail.
10.1086/679738|Groundwatersurface-water (GW-SW) interactions in streams are difficult to quantify because of heterogeneity in hydraulic and reactive processes across a range of spatial and temporal scales. The challenge of quantifying these interactions has led to the development of several techniques, from centimeter-scale probes to whole-system tracers, including chemical, thermal, and electrical methods. We co-applied conservative and smart reactive solute-tracer tests, measurement of hydraulic heads, distributed temperature sensing, vertical profiles of solute tracer and temperature in the stream bed, and electrical resistivity imaging in a 450-m reach of a 3
10.1899/12-080.1|We compared biomass and community structure of macroinvertebrates among 3 flow zones (deep, rapid, flat) of riffles at 3 sites in a gravel-bed river. We evaluated bed stability in these zones with a 2-dimensional hydrodynamic simulation over a range of discharge levels. Deep zones had higher flow velocity and coarser bed materials than other zones. Rapid zones were shallower with higher flow velocity than flat zones. The probability of bed movement was greatest in rapid zones and was lowest in deep zones based on bed shear stress and the size of bed materials. Total macroinvertebrate biomass was dominated by filterer insects and was highest in deep zones and lowest in rapid zones across the sites. This trend was most conspicuous for taxa that build retreats on stones, such as net-spinning caddisflies, which have a sessile life form and prefer stable environments. The trend was less apparent for taxa that move freely on the bed, such as baetid and heptageniid mayflies. The macroinvertebrate community differed between the middle and peripheral areas at deep zones. Peripheral areas were dominated more by taxa that stay under stones. The channel bed topography in deep zones of riffles is likely to support high macroinvertebrate biomass by providing greater bed stability and higher water flow, the combination of which is relatively uncommon in gravel-bed rivers.
10.1899/12-181.1|C, N, and P content were measured across the ontogeny of lotic aquatic insects representing a diversity of life-history characteristics. The relationship between individual mass and nutrient content was used to show ontogenetic patterns of nutrient content by species. Species analyzed for C and N content exhibited a quasihomeostatic pattern across ontogeny. Percent C and %N varied among taxa irrespective of ontogeny, with %C ranging from 47.4 to 56.2% and %N ranging from 9.6 to 11.6%. P content also varied by species but declined nonlinearly across ontogeny and was best represented by a power function. Percent P varied from >7% in 1
10.1899/11-075.1|The US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) conducted a National Lakes Assessment (NLA) in the conterminous USA in 2007 as part of a national assessment of aquatic resources. The EPA used the National Hydrography Dataset (NHD) as the basis for the sample frame for the NLA. The target population was all lakes >4ha, excluding the Laurentian Great Lakes and the Great Salt Lake. An unequal probability survey design was used to select 4472 candidate lakes for potential sampling. The unequal selection depended on 5 lake area classes and 9 aggregated Omernik level III ecoregions. In all, 2034 candidate lakes were evaluated for inclusion in the target population, and 1309 lakes (representing 68,000 lakes in the sample frame) met the criteria. A total of 1028 lakes (of 1309) were sampled and represented 50,000 lakes. The remaining lakes (231, representing 18,000 lakes) could not be sampled because of access denial or physical inaccessibility. The target population included natural (41  2% [SE]) and man-made lakes (59  2%). All target lakes in the Southern Appalachian region and >90% of the target population in the Southern Plains and Xeric regions were man-made. In the Upper Midwest region, 97  1% of the target population were natural lakes. Small lakes (410ha) made up 47  2% of the target population, and lakes >50ha made up 15% of the target population. The results raise 2 issues that have implications for current and future NLA projects: 1) the cost and effort required to identify lake features in the sample frame that do not meet the criteria for inclusion in the target population (50% in NLA 2007), and 2) the potential for biased estimates of the size and condition of the target population caused by lakes that cannot be sampled. Future NLA efforts involve refining the survey design to include smaller lakes and resampling lakes from previous NLAs. We offer approaches for addressing both issues, including use of a high-resolution version of NHD as the basis for developing the NLA sample frame. Developing a master sample frame of lakes would provide a consistent basis of lake numbers (or surface area) from which to estimate extent or assess ecological condition.
10.1899/11-019.1|Anthropogenic nutrient enrichment increases the supply ratio of N and P to aquatic ecosystems and can affect the identity of the limiting nutrient. Here we focus on how stream communities change along gradients of N and P supply and stream catchment landuse intensity. We used a survey approach in 41 southern New Zealand tributaries to investigate how much changes in water N and P concentrations are reflected in periphyton Cnutrient ratios (CN or CP) and how much food quality (high food quality corresponds to low periphyton Cnutrient) is reflected in the abundance and taxonomic richness of benthic invertebrate primary and secondary consumers. We measured streamwater nutrient state, periphyton nutrient ratios, biomass (as chlorophyll
10.1899/12-059.1|Investigations of predatorprey dynamics have largely focused on quantifying predation rates, yet achieving an appropriate sample to quantify predation is difficult when prey populations are small and individuals are rare. Moreover, quantifying rates of predation does not necessarily provide solutions for protecting threatened populations from predation. We used predator abundance and fine-scale predatorprey spatial overlap to identify trends in predation risk from cormorants,
10.1086/677898|Disentangling the influences of multiple environmental factors on ecosystem integrity is not straightforward because environmental factors may interact and biotic responses may be nonlinear. We aimed to understand better the relationships between freshwater invertebrate assemblages and multiple, interacting environmental factors. We analyzed stream monitoring data for 689 sampling sites in the state of Ohio (USA) with Boosted Regression Trees (BRTs). We used 16 environmental predictors covering geography, water chemistry, physical-habitat quality, and toxic pressure. We represented freshwater invertebrate assemblages by the Invertebrate Community Index (ICI) and its 10 component metrics. The ICI was mainly related to physical-habitat quality, nutrient concentrations (P and N), and pH. Responses of the ICI component metrics to physical-habitat quality and water-chemistry variables were similar and were associated with amplified importance of these predictors for the ICI, whereas heterogeneous responses of the component metrics to geographic variables appeared to cancel each other out at the level of the ICI. Models including predictor interactions explained 22 to 54% of the deviation in the biotic endpoints, whereas the no-interactions models explained 14 to 47%. The gain in predictive power was largest between the no- and the pairwise interaction models and decreased rapidly for each additional interaction level. We conclude that a focus on pairwise interactions is a good compromise between higher predictive power and interpretability of the results.
10.1086/674745|High flows are major disturbances in streams and cause benthic communities to vary temporally. Meltwater runoff in glacier-fed streams at temperatearctic latitudes primarily follows a strong seasonal pattern. In contrast, such streams at the equator show less seasonal, but more-pronounced diel variability in discharge that tracks a year-round diurnal meltingnocturnal freezing cycle of glaciers. Consequently, qualitative and quantitative differences in temporal variability of macrobenthos communities should be expected between high-latitude and tropical glacier-fed streams. We explored temporal variability in density, taxon richness, and community composition of benthic macroinvertebrates and analyzed community responses to flow events at 3 sites along a glacier-fed stream in equatorial Ecuador (0.05, 1.6, and 4.3 km from the glacier front). We obtained continuous flow recordings and sampled fauna at approximately quarterly intervals over 30 mo. Temporal variability in the fauna was aseasonal. However, the overall magnitude of the coefficient of variability (CV) at the 3 sites was not lower than the CV at temperate latitudes. The explanatory power of flow did not differ among discharge parameters 3, 6, 9, 21, and 45 d before sampling. The effect of flow (slopes of regressions of faunal metrics vs flow) did not differ among sites, but the amount of variation explained by flow was significant only at the 2 downstream sites. Little synchrony was found in variability among sites, possibly because of differences among sites in physical characteristics (e.g., refugia space), which moderated the effect of disturbances, and taxonomic composition of communities. Our study is the first to show a close link between hydrological and biological fluctuations in an equatorial glacier-fed stream, a prerequisite for subsequent predictions of consequences of tropical glacier melting on diversity, composition, and stability of stream communities.
10.1899/11-174.1|We analyzed the composition of spring fauna in relation to the mesoscale variability in environmental conditions in 77 permanent springs in a geologically homogenous area. We hypothesized that the species would occur in definite patterns reflecting the differences in factors that operate at the spring-level scale. We focused on the differences resulting from spring morphology, substrate composition, shading, and water chemistry. Our goal was to identify the abiotic variables that control the character of interspecies associations. The spring assemblages comprised species of 9 higher taxonomic groups (Plecoptera, Trichoptera, Coleoptera, Diptera, Turbellaria, Crustacea, Mollusca, Oligochaeta, Hydracarina). We used binomial regression successfully to construct single-species environmental models for several of the most abundant taxa. The most important factors explaining the species occurrence were hydromorphological and substrate characteristics. Results of nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination on species composition indicated 3 groups of springs. However, the analysis did not provide evidence for strong interspecies associations. Group 1 separated springs with running water, high substrate heterogeneity, and high taxonomic richness. Groups 2 and 3 included mostly helocrene-like springs differing in slope and substrate composition. The assemblages of these 2 groups comprised the same dominant species. However, the springs from group 3 had lower species abundances. Our study demonstrates the importance of mesoscale differences in habitat conditions for structuring the spring-associated benthic assemblages.
10.1899/12.157.1|Most freshwater zooplankton species produce dormant eggs or other long-lived resistant life stages to bridge periods that are unsuitable for growth and reproduction. One of the principal cues that determine activation of these dormant stages is light exposure. Contrary to the analogous process of seed germination in plants, relatively little is known about the mechanism of light activation and its potential adaptive value in freshwater zooplankton. We made use of a temporary pool model to investigate the hatching response of resting eggs of the fairy shrimp
10.1899/11.084.1|Habitat conditions and spring-associated limestones (SALs) formed by ambient precipitation with the biotic contribution of the desmid
10.1086/677198|The rapid range expansion of the toxigenic marine haptophytic alga
10.1899/11-173.1|Input, trapping, and retention of coarse particulate organic matter are among the key determinants of resource availability for consumers in forested headwater streams. Retention efficiency is regulated by the interaction between bed roughness and hydrological characteristics. We examined short-term retention of leaf analogs in artificial flumes, where we manipulated streambed structure and discharge using a factorial design. The substrate structures used are widely applied in stream restoration and represent a gradient of increasing bed complexity: channelized streams, channelized streams + moss, boulder additions, boulders + moss, addition of wood (low-wood and high-wood). We assessed whether, and by how much, the retentive efficiency of a stream is enhanced by various restoration structures and whether the effect of discharge on retention efficiency is similar in channelized and differently restored streams. All restoration structures enhanced leaf retention considerably, and even channelized streams containing mosses were highly retentive. At low discharge, channelized streams lacking mosses retained leaf litter less effectively than did the restored streams, whereas retention differed little among restoration treatments. At high discharge, most restoration structures were much less retentive, and differences in retentiveness between restored and channelized streams became insubstantial, except that streams with abundant wood remained highly retentive at all discharges. Our results suggest that all types of structures added to improve stream retentiveness may enhance leaf retention, and thereby contribute to organic matter dynamics of a stream, but the addition of wood of variable sizes is the best long-term solution to forested stream restoration.
10.1086/676915|Nonnative fishes have been linked to the decline of native fishes and may affect aquatic food webs through direct and indirect pathways. These concerns have led to efforts to remove nonnative Brown and Rainbow Trout, which are abundant in tributaries of the Colorado River, to enhance native fish communities. We sampled fish, benthic, and drifting macroinvertebrates in November 2010, January 2011, June 2011, and September 2011 to assess resource availability and to evaluate the effects of nonnative Brown and Rainbow Trout in a tributary of the Colorado River in the Grand Canyon. We evaluated trout diets from stomach samples collected during macroinvertebrate sampling periods, and we estimated annual consumption with bioenergetics models. We used
10.1086/677899|Molting is a stressful event in insect development. When an insect molts, the individual discards its exoskeleton and sheds and renews the interior lining of substantial portions of the respiratory (tracheal) system. We profiled for the first time the disruptive pattern of respiration during the molting process in larvae of the mayfly
10.1086/680024|Understanding heterogeneity or patchiness in the distribution of vegetation and retention of C and nutrients in river corridors is critical for setting priorities for river management and restoration. Several mechanisms of spatial differentiation in nutrient retention in river and floodplain corridors have been recognized, but few studies have distinguished their relative importance or established their role in long-term geomorphic change, nutrient retention, and connectivity with downstream systems. We evaluated the ability of 3 mechanisms (evapotranspiration focusing [EF], differential hydrologic exchange [DHE], and particulate nutrient redistribution [PNR]) to explain spatial patterns of P retention and function in the Everglades (Florida, USA). We used field measurements in sloughs and on slightly higher, more densely vegetated ridges to quantify P fluxes attributable to the 3 mechanisms. EF does not explain Everglades nutrient retention or P concentrations on ridges and in sloughs. However, DHE resulting from different periods of groundwatersurface-water connectivity across topographic elements is the primary cause of elevated P concentrations on ridges and completely explains interpatch differences in long-term P accumulation rates. With historical flow velocities, which were an order of magnitude higher than at present, PNR would have further increased the interpatch difference in long-term P retention rates nearly 2-fold. In conclusion, DHE and PNR are the dominant drivers of nutrient patchiness in the Everglades and are hypothesized to be important in P-limited river and floodplain corridors globally.
10.1086/678948|The objective of this study was to evaluate the performance of 3 bioassessment models for reference data sets collected from the Australia Capital Territory (ACT), the Yukon River Basin (YT), and the Laurentian Great Lakes (GL) built following the standard Canadian Aquatic Biomonitoring Network (CABIN) method. To evaluate the models, we used validation reference-site data, which were artificially impaired to simulate 3 levels of eutrophication by varying the proportions of sensitive, intermediate, and tolerant taxa. Models correctly classified 56 to 62% of reference sites. Type 1 errors (assessing reference sites as degraded) were high for all data sets and ranged from 30 to 75%, in part because the biological communities of the validation sites extended to or beyond the range of the reference-site data used to build the models. Capturing the full range of ecological variation with adequate sample size is critical for reference-condition approach (RCA)-type models. Type 2 errors (assessing degraded sites as in reference condition) varied greatly among data sets and for each reference group within each data set. Resource managers must carefully consider the risks associated with making errors. Thus, standard methods for quality assurance of assessment models should include simulated data so that error rates and adjusted assessment thresholds can be reported to ensure that degradation can be detected and that undisturbed sites are not mistakenly subjected to unnecessary management action.
10.1086/676471|Lake Tovel is an oligotrophic, meromictic, mountain lake of the Dolomites that undergoes marked seasonal water-level fluctuations (WLFs). We used neo- and paleolimnological data collected since 1999 to test the utility of algal and cyanobacterial pigments and diatom and chironomid biodiversity as proxies for WLF and to highlight the contribution of benthic algae to the sediment record. We found that detailed knowledge of present-day spatiotemporal patterns of WLF is essential for a complete and correct interpretation of paleolimnological data. Scytonemin, a cyanobacteria-specific photoprotective pigment, was produced by epilithic cyanobacteria in the depth zone affected by WLF and should be considered a proxy for the extent of WLF. The phytobenthos was as important as phytoplankton as a source of sedimentary pigments. We used information gained on the detailed distribution of diatoms at different depths and on different substrata in the 2 basins to show the probable location in the lake from which taxa in sediment cores originated to aid in interpretation of the sediment archive (including identification of periods of active hydrology). We sampled present-day chironomids in springs and streams feeding the lake and along a depth transect in the main basin. The taxa found were all rheophilic, crenophilous, or typical of the littoral zone of oligotrophic lakes. We interpreted sections of the cores containing large numbers of Orthocladiinae and Diamesinae head capsules as indicative of periods of active hydrology (including sudden and marked WLF) because the littoral taxa found in the cores must have been derived from the littoral zone by sediment focusing or slumps. Thus, we identified useful proxies of WLF in mountain, carbonate lakes.
10.1086/678048|Aquatic macrophytes suffer from widespread and profound habitat deterioration that has led to dramatic changes in species distributional patterns. We explored linkages between species functional traits and abundance patterns by analyzing mean community trait values in 1083 Danish lowland streams. We expected that widespread macrophytes would share common traits and that species with smaller ranges would be negatively associated with these traits. We selected 11 traits to characterize the ecological features of 52 amphibious and submerged species. We examined the relationships between species abundance and species traits with multivariate ordination and coinertia analysis (COIA), and identified groups of species with similar distributional patterns and ecological traits by hierarchical cluster analysis. Local abundance and geographical range size of submerged and amphibious species were significantly positively related. Species abundance and species traits tables were significantly correlated, and species were separated into 5 groups based on life form, productivity, meristem characteristics, ability to fragment, and the size of the root-rhizome system. Widespread plant species in Danish lowland streams shared common traits, such as meristem, dispersal, and productivity characteristics, and we infer that these traits are likely to have adaptive value in eutrophic and hydromorphologically disturbed habitats. On the other hand, species with narrower range sizes were characterized by a different set of trait characteristics. We conclude that species abundance and distribution patterns are closely correlated with ecological trait characteristics and that traits associated with resilience to anthropogenic disturbance confer success in Danish streams.
10.1899/12-095.1|We assessed the effects of road deicer (NaCl) on life-history traits (survival, emergence, development time, sex ratio, and size at emergence) of
10.1086/676996|Bryophytes can strongly influence biodiversity and ecosystem function in low-order streams. Mosses and liverworts have substantial biodiversity and biomass in streams, yet few investigators have examined which factors influence bryophyte species distributions, and fewer have examined assemblages across a wide pH gradient. We examined bryophyte assemblages across a pH gradient in 26 southeastern New York (USA) streams. We recorded bryophyte species richness, diversity, and abundance, in conjunction with pH, width, depth, canopy cover, substratum size, temperature, dissolved O
10.1899/10-159.1|Discharge variability is an important disturbance factor, and its effect on macroinvertebrate assemblages has been widely studied in river ecosystems. In comparison, few researchers have investigated discharge variability in springs because they are thought to be relatively stable ecosystems and because discharge is not easy to measure in springs. We used the gypsum-dissolution method to assess the discharge regime of 5 natural perennial springs during a 1-y study. We calculated discharge from the mass loss of gypsum spheres at a given temperature after calibration of the method in the laboratory. We also collected seasonal macroinvertebrate samples during the study period to assess the effect of discharge variability on the composition of macroinvertebrate assemblages in the springs. The calibration experiments revealed significant linear relationships between mass loss and discharge. In the field experiments, we were able to differentiate springs with high discharge variability from springs with low discharge variability. Species richness was highest in springs with highest maximum discharge. Seasonal variability in macroinvertebrate assemblages was higher in these springs than in springs with low discharge variability. Discharge variability (disturbance intensity) did not influence the diversity and number of spring specialists. We found no evidence for highest diversity at an intermediate level of disturbance as predicted by the intermediate disturbance hypothesis. The gypsum dissolution method is an appropriate method for assessing short- and medium-term discharge variability in springs. The importance of discharge variability as flow-associated disturbance is expected to increase in the context of the predicted effects of changes in global climate and land use, i.e., increasing drought periods and flood events.
10.1086/674383|Assessments of biotic nutrient limitation in aquatic ecosystems typically rely on concentrations and ratios of potentially limiting nutrients. While successful in lakes, this approach has been less effective in streams, which often are dominated by benthic autotrophs (e.g., algae and vascular plants). We compared water-column nutrient concentration (
10.1086/674361|Climate change will cause relict alpine glaciers to disappear within decades. Associated high-altitude streams will face significant hydrological changes that might affect population genetic diversity of lotic species. In a recent study of glacier-fed streams in the Pyrenees, Finn et al. (
10.1086/682566|Urban stormwater management is complex with diverse institutional responsibilities, imperfect regulation, and limited, often unclear accountabilities. Improving practices in that context requires strong leadership, long-term commitment, and lasting interorganizational relationships founded on trust. We summarize events that steered Melbournes waterway management authority to support a catchment-scale experiment markedly different from management applications or research approaches it had previously attempted. We highlight challenges, lessons learned, and subsequent institutional changes to stormwater management. Project challenges included: substantial investment in a small area from an organization with dispersed regional responsibilities, gaining intra- and interorganizational commitment, ongoing catchment development that counteracted management efforts, requirement for ongoing investment under short-term funding and political cycles, and absence of short-term measurable responses in stream health. These challenges led to design innovations, new catchment planning approaches, new best practice objectives, and new government policies that collectively changed approaches to stormwater management in our region. Critical to the initiation and success of this project, and probably to other similar projects, was building institutional commitment through long-term relationships between researchers and practitioners, and risk sharing made possible by co-investment.
10.1086/681527|Low-trophic-position animals, such as herbivorous and detritivorous fishes, mollusks, and crustaceans, have been introduced and become established in aquatic ecosystems throughout the globe. After introduction, they have the potential to change community structure and ecosystem processes fundamentally. Armored catfishes (Siluriformes:Loricariidae) are grazing fishes that have an extensive nonnative distribution. High population densities of nonnative loricariids have been linked to the decline of freshwater fisheries in invaded habitats, but the mechanisms underlying declines are poorly understood. We coupled the results of 2 loricariid exclosure experiments with a comparison of invaded and uninvaded sites to measure the effects of loricariids on the quantity and quality of food resources in a tropical stream. Loricariid grazing reduced the standing stock of benthic organic matter and algal biomass in experimental manipulations and in the site comparison. Moreover, grazing by loricariids significantly altered the stoichiometry and the total amount of C, N, and P stored in the epilithon. The effects on P were particularly strong. Our results indicate that high densities of low-trophic-position invaders can significantly reduce the quality and the quantity of food resources in invaded systems. In particular, our findings provide evidence that the invasion of a P-rich grazer in a P-limited system has the potential to reduce P availability for other consumers.
10.1086/682147|Flooding is an important physical disturbance in many streams and rivers. Ecological theory suggests that population persistence will be enhanced if organisms can take shelter from high flow during floods. We investigated whether the black fly larva
10.1086/678460|Freshwater aquifers are a major source of drinking water. They also possess unique assemblages of organisms. However, little is known about the distributional drivers of obligate groundwater organisms at the regional scale. We examined the distribution and composition of stygobiont assemblages in a complex geological setting and explored the relationship between groundwater fauna, hydrogeology, and water chemistry. In the study area, we grouped similar geologies into 5 hydrogeological formations (hydro-units [HUs]) within which habitats for groundwater fauna were broadly similar. The occurrence of stygobionts differed significantly between HUs. Stygobionts were significantly less likely to be recorded in mudstone/siltstone and sandstone aquifers than in carbonate or igneous/metamorphic rocks. Variance partitioning indicated that HU explained a greater proportion of the variance (7.52%) in the groundwater community than water chemistry (5.02%). However, much of the variation remained unexplained. The macrofaunal stygobiont species in our study area formed 3 groups: 1)
10.1086/676913|Biological attributes of ecosystems often change nonlinearly as a function of anthropogenic and natural stress. Plant and animal communities may exhibit zones of change along a stressor gradient that are disproportionate relative to the incremental change in the stressor. The ability to predict such transitions is essential for effective management intervention because they may indicate irreversible changes in ecological processes. Despite the importance of recognizing transition zones along a stressor gradient, few, if any, investigators have examined these responses across multiple taxa, and no community threshold studies have been reported at large geographic scales. We surveyed benthic macroinvertebrate, fish, bird, diatom, and plant communities in coastal wetlands across a geospatially referenced gradient of anthropogenic stress in the Laurentian Great Lakes. We used Threshold Indicator Taxon Analysis (Baker and King
10.1899/12-209.1|Human activity has significantly increased dissolved inorganic N (DIN) availability and has modified the relative proportion of NO
10.1086/675079|Diatoms are main bioindicators used to assess the ecological quality of rivers, but their identification is difficult and time-consuming. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) can be used to study communities of microorganisms, so we carried out a test of the reliability of 454 pyrosequencing for estimating diatom inventories in environmental samples. We used small subunit ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid (SSU rDNA), ribulose-1, 5-bisphosphate carboxylase (
10.1086/678516|Storm-flow disturbances are frequent during the wet season of Australian tropical savannas. We examined benthic algal resistance and resilience in open-canopy streams in the Daly River watershed. Storm flows occurred every 2 to 3 d at 1
10.1086/676658|We examined the hypothesis that direct predation is part of the explanation for the displacement of zebra (
10.1899/13-046.1|Early detection of aquatic invasive species is a critical task for management of aquatic ecosystems. This task is hindered by the difficulty and cost of surveying aquatic systems thoroughly. The New Zealand mudsnail (
10.1899/11-168.1|Land-management agencies need quantitative, statistically rigorous monitoring data, often at large spatial and temporal scales, to support resource-management decisions. Monitoring designs typically must accommodate multiple ecological, logistical, political, and economic objectives and constraints. We present a long-term bioregional monitoring program to assess the status and change in populations of the federally listed candidate frog species, Yosemite toad (
10.1899/11-081.1|One of the biggest challenges when conducting a national-scale assessment of lakes, such as the 2007 US National Lake Assessment (NLA), is finding enough reference lakes to set appropriate expectations for the assessed sites. In the NLA, a random design was used to select lakes for sampling to make unbiased estimates of regional condition. However, such an approach was unlikely to yield enough minimally impacted lakes to use as reference sites, especially in disturbed regions. We developed a 3-stage process to select candidate reference lakes to augment the NLA probability sample in the northeastern USA (Northeast). Screening included a water-chemistry database filter, landuse evaluation, and analysis of aerial photographs. In the Northeast, we assembled a database of 2109 lakes >4ha in surface area, of which 369 passed the water-chemistry screen. Of these, 220 failed the watershed landuse screen and 60 failed the aerial photograph screen, leaving a set of 89 optimal candidate reference lakes. Twenty of these lakes were sampled as potential reference lakes in the NLA. Based on a wide variety of indicators, NLA field measurements indicated that almost all (85100%) of the chosen candidate reference lakes had least-disturbed water chemistry, although somewhat fewer had least disturbed physical habitat (7479%) and biology (6878%). Nevertheless, our 3-stage screening process was an efficient method for identification of good candidates for reference-lake sampling. The reference-lake selection process used in our study can be done in the office and relatively inexpensively. As such, it is very useful for large-scale regional or national studies encompassing areas too large to census. It also has the advantage of adding a level of consistency and quantification to the reference-site selection process.
10.1086/676997|Mountaintop mining (MTM) affects chemical, physical, and hydrological properties of receiving streams, but the long-term consequences for fish-assemblage structure and function are poorly understood. We sampled stream fish assemblages using electrofishing techniques in MTM exposure sites and reference sites within the Guyandotte River basin, USA, during 20102011. We calculated indices of taxonomic diversity (species richness, abundance, Shannon diversity) and functional diversity (functional richness, functional evenness, functional divergence) to compare exposure and reference assemblages between seasons (spring and autumn) and across years (19992011). We based temporal comparisons on 2 sites that were sampled during 19992001 by Stauffer and Ferreri (
10.1086/682676|Assessing and categorizing habitat needs or population trends of organisms with complex life histories, such as Odonata, is challenging. All Odonata have aquatic nymphs and terrestrial adults. As a consequence, their use as indicators of ecosystem health or as umbrella species in conservation plans may be misleading if data from a particular life stage does not reflect actual residency at a freshwater site. We explored this question with an extensive data set for Odonata from Oklahoma, USA, to determine if ecological niches modeled from records of adults (i.e., lacking any evidence of breeding) differed from niches modeled for records indicating breeding (tandem pairs, ovipositing females, larvae, teneral [recently emerged adults], or exuviae [shed exoskeletons of larvae]) at surveyed sites. We predicted that models would be comparable if adult presence strongly indicates local breeding but would be dissimilar if adults occupy many more sites than those at which the species breeds. Our results supported the latter prediction. Adult models were broader geographically and had a wider, more equitable (higher evenness) balance of contributing environmental variables (niche dimensions) than did models for breeders, which tended to be more ecologically specialized. These findings suggest that surveys of adult Odonata, which are relatively easy to obtain because of organized efforts to encourage observations by citizen scientists, can paint a misleadingly broad picture of a species ecological niche. We recommend that evidence of breeding, especially presence of tenerals or exuviae, be used to outline ecological requirements when questions of conservation or population monitoring arise.
10.1086/679015|Most nutrient-spiraling studies have focused on estimates of gross uptake (
10.1086/683391|Climate change and fire suppression have altered fire regimes globally, leading to larger, more frequent, and more severe wildfires. Responses of coldwater stream biota to single wildfires are well studied, but measured responses to consecutive wildfires in warmwater systems that often include mixed assemblages of native and nonnative taxa are lacking. We quantified changes in physical habitat, resource availability, and biomass of cold- and warmwater oligochaetes, insects, crayfish, fishes, and tadpoles following consecutive megafires (covering >100 km
10.1899/11-109.1|Conservation and management of headwater streams amid rapid global change require an understanding of the spatial and environmental factors that drive species distributions and associated ecosystem processes. We used a hierarchical analytical framework to model effects of catchment-scale topography and wetland geomorphic classes on stream physical habitat, chemistry, and macroinvertebrate and fish communities in 30 headwater streams across the Kenai Lowlands, southcentral Alaska, USA. We identified 135 macroinvertebrate taxa, 122 of which were aquatic insects, of which 79 were dipterans. We collected only 6 species of fish, but juvenile coho salmon and Dolly Varden were collected in 17 and 25 of the 30 streams and reached densities >500 and 1300/km, respectively. Flow-weighted slope, an indicator of water residence time and gradient, was the best catchment-scale correlate of macroinvertebrate and fish community structure, and its effect was mediated by wetland geomorphic classes and numerous water chemistry, substrate composition, and channel geomorphology variables measured at the reach scale. Many macroinvertebrate taxa showed high fidelity to different levels of the topographic gradient, resulting in high  diversity but relatively similar levels of  diversity across the gradient. Juvenile salmonids were segregated among streams by both species and age classes. Coho salmon fry and parr (<10cm total length [TL]) had significant unimodal distributions that peaked in streams with intermediate slopes and gravel substrate, whereas presmolts (10cm) were found only in lowest-sloping streams with mostly peat substrate and deep, slow channels. Large Dolly Varden (8cm) were found across the entire gradient but were most abundant in high-sloping catchments, whereas small Dolly Varden (<8cm) followed a similar distribution but were absent from the lowest-gradient sites with low flow velocity, dissolved O
10.1899/12-137.1|Unionoids are important in aquatic ecosystems, but despite their continued decline in diversity, few multifactorial studies have been done to identify determinants of their distribution and diversity. We studied the effects of multiple environmental factors on species richness and abundance at 65 sites in 6 major watersheds in the Pine Hills region, Louisiana. We surveyed in-stream habitat variables, land use/cover, and the co-occurring fish assemblages in 2
10.1899/12-090.1|Decomposition of senesced primary production starts processing chains in aquatic systems. Shredding macroinvertebrates convert coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) to fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) that supports 2 other feeding groups, collecting and filtering macroinvertebrates. This linkage is often invoked by aquatic ecologists, but the effect of detritivore assemblage composition on production of FPOM is relatively understudied. I manipulated detritivore assemblage composition (
10.1086/681526|Rivers in tropical Australia are largely pristine, and ecosystem connectivity is intact, but water resources in northern Australia are under increasing development pressure. A better understanding of the role and life histories of key migratory species is urgently needed to manage the risks posed by development. We investigated the life history of
10.1086/674984|The Australian Monsoonal Tropics (AMT) is a unique location for the study of phylogeography and intraspecific genetic variation in freshwater fish. We assessed the phylogeographic structure of 5 species from 2 genera across the region. The species included 3 neosilurids (Plotosidae,
10.1899/12-169.1|Commonly referred to as keystone species, crayfish are ecologically important for their ability to transfer energy efficiently to higher trophic levels in aquatic food webs. They also are ecosystem engineers, modifying substrate and influencing distribution of other benthic invertebrates. However, crayfish have yet to be examined as potential predators of benthic fish in lotic systems. We examined a possible relationship between crayfish and benthic fish populations by quantifying natural densities of both groups and by using enclosure/exclosure and laboratory experiments to test for crayfish predation on benthic fish. Data obtained by sampling Illinois streams showed that increased crayfish density was correlated with decreased fish density, and this relationship was not influenced by habitat variables. Data from in-stream enclosure/exclosure experiments showed predation by crayfish (
10.1086/678350|The effects of river-flow fluctuations on groundwater ecosystems and differences in ecological conditions in aquifers connected to losing, gaining, and alternating river reaches are poorly known. We used monitoring wells at gaining and losing reaches along an alluvial river to identify associations between river and groundwater fluctuations and ecological conditions in riverine aquifers. Groundwater and surface-water pH, temperature, and dissolved O
10.1899/12-157.1|One of the best studied freshwater predatorprey interactions is arguably that between crayfish and gastropods. In many ecosystems, crayfish limit populations of thin-shelled snails and induce changes in snail traits. However, the connection between these 2 phenomena and, therefore, the mechanism by which crayfish have population-dynamic effects on snails, has been little studied. I examined the population-level effects of 2 procambarid crayfish (
10.1086/683534|Differences in temperature, relative humidity, and vapor pressure deficit (VPD) were observed within small patches of pondcypress (
10.1899/11-030.1|Forest disturbance agents, such as wildfire and windthrow, often differ in magnitude and frequency between upland and riparian zones. Riparian forests may be subject to additional disturbance agents that do not affect uplands, including debris flows, floods, bank erosion, and avulsions. Forest harvesting, with or without a streamside buffer, is an additional riparian disturbance agent in managed landscapes. The effects of riparian harvesting on stream habitat and ecology are qualitatively similar to those of wildfire, with the important exception of recruitment of large in-stream wood. For most other disturbance agents, current knowledge is insufficient to assess the degree to which natural disturbance can be emulated via riparian forest harvesting. In particular, the effects of the spatial patterns and frequencies of disturbance on the trajectories and rates of postdisturbance recovery are poorly understood for many landscapes and are complicated by the potential for propagation of effects down the stream network. Broadly based, long-term research on riparian disturbance regimes is needed to provide the scientific basis required for designing strategies for sustainable streamside forest management.
10.1899/12-101.1|The relative influence of landscape vs local processes on variation in stream C and energy sources to lotic consumers remains unresolved, but is a key component in understanding pathways through stream food webs. I investigated potential linkages between the distribution of 
10.1899/11-006.1|Species in complex ecosystems, such as streams, are influenced by multiple top-down and bottom-up control factors. Food-resource and competition/predation mechanisms are among the most influential factors controlling population ecology. Balancing the effects of bottom-up control by food resources and top-down control by competition/predation can trigger compensatory responses leading to changes in species ecology within the limit of their plasticity. These effects have been well studied in simple controlled conditions, but predicting their outcome is difficult for natural populations in genuine ecosystems because of the heterogeneity of environmental conditions and the complexity of biotic interactions. We investigated the ecological response in terms of feeding habits and population parameters of the stream-dwelling predator,
10.1086/679490|Climate warming poses a serious threat to alpine-restricted species worldwide, yet few studies have empirically documented climate-induced changes in distributions. The rare stonefly,
10.1086/675811|Extracellular material can play a key role in benthic ecosystems, but most of our current knowledge about extracellular material comes from marine intertidal systems. Data from lakes are lacking. We worked in Lake Opeongo, a 5800-ha dystrophic lake on the Canadian Precambrian Shield, and investigated changes in extracellular material as a function of light intensity, sediment characteristics, and disturbance regime and algal biomass, community composition, and primary production, all factors important in marine intertidal studies. We used permutation-based path analysis to test alternative models. We found a negative effect of in situ primary production on loosely bound, colloidal extracellular material, indicating that extracellular material may be released under stressful conditions. The effect of algal community composition on colloidal extracellular material also was significant. Total extracellular material was affected only by time of year, indicating that tightly bound, capsular extracellular material is more refractory than colloidal extracellular material. We found no significant effects of environmental factors (light, nutrients, or wind-driven disturbance) on either colloidal or total extracellular material, despite their importance in marine intertidal systems.
10.1899/12-078.1|Stage-specific interactions can have large effects on food webs and ecosystem processes. We investigated stage-specific interactions between signal crayfish (
10.1086/679903|Our daily life depends on many services delivered by the planets ecosystems. Groundwater ecosystems deliver services that are of immense societal and economic value, such as: 1) purification of water and its storage in good quality for decades and centuries, 2) active biodegradation of anthropogenic contaminants and inactivation and elimination of pathogens, 3) nutrient recycling, and 4) mitigation of floods and droughts. Many of these services are directly connected to the presence and activity of specific organisms, microorganisms, or metazoa. Sustainable protection and management of important groundwater ecosystem services will require quantitative understanding of processes at different spatial and temporal scales and assessment of their resistance and resilience with regard to common anthropogenic impacts. Our review compiles known groundwater ecosystem services and, where appropriate, highlights important research gaps.
10.1899/11-097.1|We analyzed nutrient data from the National Lakes Assessment (NLA), a probability survey of 1028 lakes >4ha in lake area across the conterminous USA to quantify and contrast different methods of setting nutrient criteria. We calculated potential nutrient criteria for total P (TP), total N (TN), and chlorophyll
10.1899/12-083.1|Theory predicts that different components of species diversity should increase with environmental heterogeneity. Our main aim was to examine the relationship between -diversity and environmental heterogeneity in a system with high habitat heterogeneity and very small spatial distances between sites. This system allowed us to examine the effect of habitat heterogeneity on -diversity in the absence of dispersal limitation. We surveyed 100 riffle sites (10 riffles in each of 10 streams) for benthic macroinvertebrates in a boreal drainage basin. Streams differed in average community composition (based on canonical analysis of principal coordinates) and heterogeneity in community composition (based on test of homogeneity of dispersion). These results were robust regardless of the distance measures used in distance-based multivariate analyses. -diversity was not significantly correlated with stream habitat heterogeneity, despite the fact that the latter was quantified by a large set of environmental variables deemed important for species occurrence in our study streams. Thus, we suggest that the relationship between -diversity and habitat heterogeneity was masked by individual speciesenvironment responses and mass effects. Thus, the -diversityhabitat heterogeneity relationship may not always be significant, a result that may have important consequences for understanding the structure of community patterns. Despite the absence of a significant -diversityhabitat heterogeneity relationship, community structure was significantly associated with environmental factors (e.g., moss cover, stream width, velocity) across the streams in distance-based redundancy analysis. This finding suggests that different ways to associate -diversity, community structure, and environmental conditions may yield different insights into the structure of biotic communities.
10.1086/679654|The hyporheic zone (HZ) can be an important source of solutes to streams. Hyporheic solute fluxes are commonly dominated by advective exchange. However, fluxes from the HZ also may include diffusion and upward advection of ground water from underlying aquifers. We compared the relative importance of these transport mechanisms on solute budgets of a large, spring-fed river in north-central Florida using measurements of spring, river, and porewater chemistry, hydraulic gradients, and sediment hydraulic conductivity, and dilution of an injected dye (Rhodamine WT). Downstream increases in Fe, soluble reactive P (SRP), Ca
10.1899/12-079.1|Nondestructive tissue sampling is desirable for genetic or physiological studies of endangered freshwater mussels. We used the freshwater pearl mussel (
10.1086/681256|Breakdown of litter in streams is an important terrestrialaquatic C pathway in forests. Macroinvertebrate detritivore shredders that feed on litter may be more abundant in temperate than tropical streams because the feeding guild is generally restricted to cool waters and because temperate streams may have more high-quality resources. However, rich shredder communities have been found in some high-altitude tropical streams. We investigated litter breakdown and the variation in resource quality of native riparian vegetation in tropical streams at different altitudes (863393 m) in eastern Malaysia (Borneo). At each stream, we collected 3 native local leaf species, analyzed their initial resource quality, and incubated them for 56 d in coarse- (shredder and microbial colonization) and fine- (only microbial colonization) mesh bags. We incubated
10.1899/11-027.1|Sound decision making in environmental research and management requires an understanding of causal relationships between stressors and ecological responses. However, demonstrating causeeffect relationships in natural systems is challenging because of difficulties with natural variability, performing experiments, lack of replication, and the presence of confounding influences. Thus, even the best-designed study may not establish causality. We describe a method that uses evidence available in the extensive published ecological literature to assess support for causeeffect hypotheses in environmental investigations. Our method, called
10.1899/11-060.1|According to theory, the rate and stoichiometry of microbial mineralization depend, in part, on nutrient availability. For microbes associated with leaves in streams, nutrients are available from both the water column and the leaf. Therefore, microbial nutrient cycling may change with nutrient availability and during leaf decomposition. We explored spatial and temporal patterns of mineralization by heterotrophic microbes by placing packs of red maple leaves at sites in 5 Appalachian streams spanning a range of N and P availability. We collected packs 4 times from each site. Leaf disks from these packs were incubated in microcosms, and uptake rates and steady-state concentrations of NH
10.1086/680517|The introduced North American signal crayfish
10.1899/12-132.1|Native freshwater mussels are a diverse but imperiled fauna and may be especially sensitive to increasing water temperatures because many species already may be living near their upper thermal limits. We tested the hypothesis that elevated water temperatures (20, 25, 30, and 35C) adversely affected the survival and physiology of 2-mo-old juvenile mussels (
10.1086/677070|In situ seed banks are a promising avenue for restoration of plant communities damaged by anthropogenic changes. The invasive rusty crayfish (
10.1086/677555|Stream functioning includes simultaneous interaction among solute transport, nutrient processing, and metabolism. Metabolism is measured with methods that have limited spatial representativeness and are highly uncertain. These problems restrict development of methods for up-scaling biological processes that mediate nutrient processing. We used the resazurinresorufin (Raz-Rru) tracer system to estimate metabolism at different spatial scales (habitat, subreach, and reach) in 2 headwater streams of the H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest (Oregon, USA), and present a mathematical framework for its application. We investigated the relationship between metabolism and hydrodynamics, i.e., geomorphic units (e.g., poolriffle, poolcascade), bed materials (i.e., alluvium vs bedrock channels), and type of transient storage (i.e., pure hyporheic exchange, pure surface transient storage, and a combination of both). The metabolic hotspots detected by the Raz-Rru system in both watersheds were related to hydrodynamic conditions known to increase biological processing. Higher respiration rate coefficients were found in subreaches with extensive hyporheic flow and flow through large woody-debris complexes, and higher reaeration rate coefficients were found in subreaches with intensive respiration activity and higher flow velocities. Because such hydrodynamic conditions and their effects on stream processing are difficult to quantify in headwater streams without the use of tracer techniques, the Raz-Rru system proved to be a good integrator of solute transport and stream metabolism processes.
10.1899/12-040.1|Freshwater mussels perform critical ecosystem functions and provide many valuable ecological services. However, anthropogenic effects have severely decreased mussel diversity and abundance at both local and regional scales. Understanding how human disturbances, particularly landuse change, and fish assemblages are related to mussel assemblages is essential for effective conservation and restoration. We used Random Forests (RF) regressions, a data-mining technique, to examine how mussel species richness, total abundance, and abundances of individual species were related to land use at different spatial scales and to fish species richness and abundance in east central Illinois, USA. Mussel richness increased with % wetlands, % open water, % grassland in the riparian zone, and total fish abundance; decreased with % urban land in the riparian zone; but responded poorly to fish species richness and fish Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) scores. Total mussel abundance mainly increased with total fish abundance and decreased with both % urban land in the riparian zone and road density. Of 8 mussel species modeled, the abundances of 3 were strongly related to total fish abundance or fish-host abundance, 3 with both fish abundance and land use, and 2 with land use and other physical variables. These findings can help researchers and resource managers explain the spatial variation of mussel assemblages and choose abiotic and biotic variables to monitor or manipulate for maintaining or restoring overall mussel diversity or the populations of individual species.
10.1899/12-046.1|Streams draining urban heat islands tend to be hotter than rural and forested streams at baseflow because of warmer urban air and ground temperatures, paved surfaces, and decreased riparian canopy. Urban infrastructure efficiently routes runoff over hot impervious surfaces and through storm drains directly into streams and can lead to rapid, dramatic increases in temperature. Thermal regimes affect habitat quality and biogeochemical processes, and changes can be lethal if temperatures exceed upper tolerance limits of aquatic fauna. In summer 2009, we collected continuous (10-min interval) temperature data in 60 streams spanning a range of development intensity in the Piedmont of North Carolina, USA. The 5 most urbanized streams averaged 21.1C at baseflow, compared to 19.5C in the 5 most forested streams. Temperatures in urban streams rose as much as 4C during a small regional storm, whereas the same storm led to extremely small to no changes in temperature in forested streams. Over a kilometer of stream length, baseflow temperature varied by as much as 10C in an urban stream and as little as 2C in a forested stream. We used structural equation modeling to explore how reach- and catchment-scale attributes interact to explain maximum temperatures and magnitudes of storm-flow temperature surges. The best predictive model of baseflow temperatures (
10.1899/11-042.1|Most foodweb research in lentic systems has focused on pelagic primary (phytoplankton) and secondary (zooplankton) production as the primary energy sources for higher trophic-level production. Recent research has demonstrated that secondary production of benthic primary consumers can affect pelagic fish production and foodweb structure in lakes. We used the instantaneous growth method to calculate secondary production of chironomids in Lake Winnebago, Wisconsin (USA), where previous research has shown that lake sturgeon (
10.1899/12-091.1|Downed wood pieces are key links between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. They promote organic matter retention, create habitat, and potentially increase stream productivity. The stock of downed wood in a river system is a product of the interaction between wood supply, transport, in situ losses, and retention characteristics of the system. Fire and forest management are important disturbances that influence the amount and organization of stream wood with boom-and-bust periods of recruitment and fluvial transport processes. We examined 1
10.1086/675453|Compared to phytoplankton, relatively little information exists about the importance of benthic algae as a source of dissolved organic C (DOC) in lakes. We enriched outdoor tanks with N and P in a full factorial design (unenriched, +N, +P, N+P) to evaluate effects of nutrients on the release, composition, and decomposition of DOC from
10.1899/12-055.1|Empirical analyses of ecological changes accompanying nutrient enrichment provide one line of evidence for developing protective nutrient criteria. The purpose of my study was to elucidate 2 important aspects of such empirical analyses: 1) how statistical techniques compare regarding types of relationships fit and benchmark values obtained, and 2) how decisions regarding log-transformation of right-skewed nutrient data affect the results. I used data from Great Lakes coastal wetlands describing a suite of water-quality and biotic responses over a large nutrient gradient to conduct side-by-side evaluations of 5 statistical techniques (logistic regression, cumulative probability analysis, linear regression, piecewise regression, classification and regression tree analysis [CART]). With this somewhat noisy data set, differences in goodness-of-fit among techniques that modeled gradual changes vs ones that identified abrupt transitions were remarkably small, providing little evidence for superiority of one over another. However, differences among techniques in nutrient benchmark values and their ecological interpretation were substantial. Log
10.1899/12-008.1|Physicochemical conditions in refugia must remain within the tolerance limits of aquatic invertebrates if they are to persist in intermittent streams when surface water is absent. We investigated shallow streambed sediments as a refuge for aquatic invertebrates and survival of invertebrates at high temperatures during the dry period in 3 headwater intermittent streams in New Zealand. Sediments from dry stream beds inundated in the laboratory contained 37 of the 53 taxa found in nearby flowing streams, a result suggesting that many taxa attempt to use the dry stream bed as a refuge during dry periods. Relative abundances of microcrustacea (copepods and ostracods), Gastropoda and Coleoptera (mostly Scirtidae) were greater in rewetted sediments than in sediments from nearby flowing streams, and several Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera taxa were present in low densities in rewetted sediments. All taxa that became active in rewetted sediments, except Hydrobiosidae,
10.1086/678768|We developed a bioassessment tool (HYDRA) to predict the taxa present at a site based on the best performing machine learning tool (Support Vector Machines [SVM], Multi-Layer Perceptron [MLP], K-Nearest Neighbour [KNN]) for each taxon. HYDRA differs from standard models based on discriminant function analysis (DFA) in 2 main ways: 1) HYDRA predicts taxa directly without a priori reference-site classification, and 2) all environmental variables provided for model building contribute to predictions instead of only those that best explain differences among groups. Probabilities of taxon occurrence were used to calculate the Observed/Expected index (O/E50), based on taxa predicted with >50% probability of occurrence. We tested the hypothesis that a combination of models (HYDRA) would perform better than each model alone (SVM, MLP, KNN). We measured performance as: 1) taxon prediction accuracy, 2) precision given by the O/E50 standard deviation (SD O/E50), 3) accuracy of the validation O vs E linear regression, and 4) sensitivity to impairment. We used 3 data sets covering a wide range of environmental conditions (Yukon Territory, Great Lakes, Australian Capital Territory) and calculated O/E50 values for reference, validation, and sites with 3 known levels of simulated impairment. We created 4 quality classes (GoodSevere) and used the 10
10.1086/684073|Fire is a prevalent feature of many landscapes and has numerous and complex effects on geological, hydrological, ecological, and economic systems. In some regions, the frequency and intensity of wildfire have increased in recent years and are projected to escalate with predicted climatic and landuse changes. In addition, prescribed burns continue to be used in many parts of the world to clear vegetation for development projects, encourage desired vegetation, and reduce fuel loads. Given the prevalence of fire on the landscape, authors of papers in this special series examine the complexities of fire as a disturbance shaping freshwater ecosystems and highlight the state of the science. These papers cover key aspects of fire effects that range from vegetation loss and recovery in watersheds to effects on hydrology and water quality with consequences for communities (from algae to fish), food webs, and ecosystem processes (e.g., organic matter subsidies, nutrient cycling) across a range of scales. The results presented in this special series of articles expand our knowledge of fire effects in different biomes, water bodies, and geographic regions, encompassing aquatic population, community, and ecosystem responses. In this overview, we summarize each paper and emphasize its contributions to knowledge on fire ecology and freshwater ecosystems. This overview concludes with a list of 7 research foci that are needed to further our knowledge of fire effects on aquatic ecosystems, including research on: 1) additional biomes and geographic regions; 2) additional habitats, including wetlands and lacustrine ecosystems; 3) different fire severities, sizes, and spatial configurations; and 4) additional response variables (e.g., ecosystem processes) 5) over long (>5 y) time scales 6) with more rigorous study designs and data analyses, and 7) consideration of the effects of fire management practices and policies on aquatic ecosystems.
10.1086/674632|We analyzed basal sources, trophic levels, and connectance in dry-season food webs on 4 rivers in the upper Burdekin catchment in the dry tropics of northeastern Australia. The region is characterized by episodic summer rainfall, and most of the annual river flow occurs in a short period. In the dry season, rivers typically contract into a series of water holes of varying permanence and hydrologic connectivity. We used stable-isotope and stomach-content analyses to identify trophic levels of macroinvertebrates and fish, and we used a mixing model (SIAR) to identify foodweb basal sources at each site. We found substantial variability among sites in basal-source contributions, trophic position of individual taxa, and foodweb structure, and sites from the same river often were as different as sites from different rivers. Important basal sources at different sites included allochthonous tree litter, autochthonous algae and macrophytes, and Fe-fixing bacteria. Many relationships between consumers and basal sources were not resolved in the mixing model, mainly because of extensive omnivory or isotopic overlap among sources. Nevertheless, our results show high variability of dry-tropics river communities that extends beyond previously described macroinvertebrate assemblages to the broader food web. However, the main components of the upper trophic levels were similar across sites, such that different lower trophic levels supported similar assemblages of top consumers. These tropical rivers were defined by omnivory and ecological opportunism, which may be adaptations to seasonal hydrological variability.
10.1899/12-102.1|N
10.1899/11-022.1|Limestone-based (karstic) freshwater wetlands of the Everglades, Belize, Mexico, and Jamaica are distinctive in having a high biomass of CaCO
10.1899/12-060.1|Parasites are ubiquitous members of ecological communities but have only recently been recognized as key players in broader interactions and ecosystem dynamics, such as foodweb structure and energy flow. Ecological stoichiometry provides a framework for placing parasites in an ecosystem perspective by considering elemental imbalances and their consequences. I measured the elemental content of trematodes and their gastropod hosts and then estimated the nutrient-recycling effects of parasitism. NP of all tissue types in trematodes of the freshwater pulmonate snail,
10.1899/12-034.1|Tar spot is a common leaf disease of
10.1899/12-013.1|We examined the effect of vertical hydrological exchange on physicochemical variables, periphyton biomass (ecosystem properties), and sediment respiration (ecosystem process) at 2 spatial scales along a large gravel-bed river (Tagliamento River, northeastern Italy). At the regional scale, we investigated a 29-km-long, expanding and contracting, losing (average flow decrease 2.5m
10.1086/681525|Global studies of streams are needed to develop general ecosystem and management models. We reviewed research that tested ecological models in streams of the Queensland Wet Tropics bioregion (QWT), which makes up 0.26% of Australia but supports distinctive and high biodiversity, most of which is of Gondwanan or marine origin. QWT streams have seasonal but perennial flow, high insolation, and higher diversity of riparian vegetation, invertebrates, and fish than temperate streams. Consistent physical conditions sustain biological processes through the year, and predictable wet seasons, but unpredictable floods, have shaped a resilient and opportunistic biota. Stream food webs are dominated by predators, and prey turnover is rapid. Small streams are heterotrophic and become autotrophic as canopies open in larger streams. Predation and competition influence assemblage composition most in the dry season, when habitats contract and densities increase. Riparian clearing, weed invasion, and agricultural contamination affect table lands and floodplains. High temperatures exacerbate weed growth and eutrophication, but contaminants may be diluted by high flows from forested catchments. Climate change probably will cause warming and greater hydrological seasonality, threatening endemic species. The biophysical characteristics of QWT streams are found elsewhere in the tropics, but the species pool is not. QWT streams are important because of their insular and remnant nature. Patterns and processes can differ between QWT and comparable temperate systems because of biogeographic and biophysical characteristics and their interactions with anthropogenic effects, exacerbated by the tropical climate. Research in the QWT both affirms and contradicts theories of stream ecology, underpins conservation and management needs of tropical streams, and provides points of reference for comparative studies in stream ecology, conservation, and management.
10.1086/678127|Cold water provided by small tributary streams can contribute to thermal heterogeneity in downstream receiving waters, thereby providing important thermal refuge habitat for cold-water aquatic taxa residing in warmer mainstem rivers. We investigated the potential function of small perennial and nonperennial tributary streams, including intermittent and ephemeral channels (some of which were dry) as sources of cold water to warmer receiving rivers. We used random forest analysis to model occurrence of cold-water patches at tributary confluences as a function of watershed and climatic characteristics and tested predictive performance with a 2-y data set of 68 tributarymainstem confluence zones in northeastern Oregon, USA. Cold-water patches were present in 53% (36 of 68) of the tributary confluences. Of these, 14 occurred at tributaries that had no surface-water flow at the time of sampling. The likelihood of a tributary contributing a detectable source of cold water to a confluence zone during late July to early August was positively associated with an estimate of the water surplus available in the tributary basin at the end of the preceding wet season. Basin area and the presence of tributary surface flow at the time of sampling were relatively uninformative predictors of cold-water patch presence. Because surface flow was not evident in 39% of the tributaries where cold-water patches were observed, we conclude that the availability of thermal refugia for cold-water taxa, such as Pacific Salmon (
10.1899/12-215.1|The stoichiometric ratios of organisms and their food resources can influence C and nutrient dynamics in aquatic ecosystems. Several investigators have quantified linkages between nutrient enrichment and consumer stoichiometry for stream detritivores, but very few have systematically quantified the effect of P enrichment on leaf-litter stoichiometry. Here, we examine the potential stoichiometric changes of 2 species of leaf litter subjected to varying levels of P enrichment in laboratory microcosms and mixed species across a natural P gradient of streams in the Ozark Highlands Region, Arkansas, USA. Leaf-litter %P content increased and CP ratios decreased with increasing levels of P enrichment and with increasing lability of the leaf species. In the laboratory study, CP of maple and oak leaves in the control treatment was 2500, whereas this ratio decreased to 500 and 1000 in the high-P treatments, respectively. Total P (TP) was inversely related to leaf-litter CP along the natural P gradient of streams in the Ozarks. Our results add to the growing body of information on the potential bottom-up effects of anthropogenic nutrient loading in streams and the influence of water-column nutrients and leaf quality on this response.
10.1086/682328|We report the design, construction, and functional characteristics of a sealable, portable chamber for measuring benthic metabolic process rates, particularly those under unidirectional flow as found in streams. The design optimizes inherent tradeoffs, such as size, stability, and cost, associated with chambers built for field-based measurements. The chamber is small enough to be portable and minimizes the water-volume:benthic surface-area ratio. In addition, the chamber is clear to allow measurement of photosynthetic rates. The design minimizes power draw to sustain water velocities found at stream field sites and is modular to allow easy disassembly and cleaning. The design is relatively simple, thereby increasing sturdiness, minimizing construction costs, and decreasing the expertise required to build the unit. We demonstrated the performance characteristics, specifically amperage needed to achieve desired water velocity, flow heterogeneity and turbulence in the working area, the degree of isolation from atmosphere, mixing rate of solute injectate, and heating rate of the chamber. We provide proof of concept with data for in situ benthic rates (gross community production, community respiration, and NH
10.1086/684016|The floodplain
10.1899/11-112.1|Coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) transport and retention were evaluated in 14 small streams in central Massachusetts. Seven streams were within the greater Worcester metropolitan area, and 7 were within protected areas north of the city. Sites drained areas with a range of watershed and riparian disturbance levels. Surrogate materials (wooden dowels that simulated small branches and diamond-shaped acetate strips that simulated leaves) of similar size and density to natural CPOM particles were released into 50-m reaches during low-flow conditions to measure retention rates. Cobble and boulders were the most important retention structures at all sites, and debris dams were important at some sites. Acetate diamonds had significantly shorter travel distances than dowels because particle flexibility and surface area reduced particle travel distance. Fewer acetate diamonds were retained in urban than in forested streams, and debris-dam density was lower in urban than in forested streams. The amount of developed area in the watershed and vegetation characteristics of the riparian zone contributed to the difference in retention. My findings indicate that restoration and management efforts for improving particle retention in urban streams should include reach- (e.g., riparian tree density) and watershed- (e.g., % urban or impervious surface) scale features during mitigation and when evaluating the success of the mitigation effort.
10.1899/13-018.1|Whole-ecosystem metabolism is an important indicator of the role of organic matter, C cycling, and trophic structure in rivers. Ecosystem metabolism is well studied in small streams, but less is known about metabolism in large rivers. We estimated daily whole-ecosystem metabolism over 2y for 1 site each at the Mississippi and Chattahoochee Rivers in the USA to understand factors influencing temporal patterns of ecosystem metabolism. We estimated rates of gross primary production (GPP), community respiration (CR), and net ecosystem production (NEP) with a curve-fitting approach with publicly available discharge (Q), dissolved O
10.1899/12-140.1|We quantified microscale flow forces and their ability to entrain the freshwater polychaete,
10.1086/675533|According to stoichiometric principles, the ratios at which consumers recycle nutrients depend on the elemental compositions of the consumer and its food. However, nutrient assimilation efficiencies and ingestion rates can vary among consumer species and, thus, can affect the rates of consumer-mediated nutrient recycling (CNR). The grazer
10.1086/676140|Lake phytoplankton studies outnumber studies on lake periphyton by an order of magnitude, and most periphyton research has been done in streams. Most benthic algal taxa found in lakes also can be found in lotic systems, but assemblages and taxa differ in a number of ways. The ecological characteristics of some lake benthic algae reflect habitat coupling. Littoral zones (benthic areas above the light compensation depth) are areas of high productivity and biodiversity. The proportion of benthic and planktonic primary production (autotrophic structure) is a key ecosystem property. The distribution of lake benthic algae is markedly influenced by the depth gradient and substratum, and assemblages change with depth from epilithic and epiphytic rheobionts to epipsammic and epipelic limnobionts. At shallow depths, periphyton must cope with the effects of high radiation, water-level fluctuations, wave action (e.g., desiccation, ultraviolet radiation exposure, shear stress), and seasonal shifts in temperature. This situation selects for widely distributed rheophilic species. In contrast, the deeper littoral zone is stable and hosts a distinct subset of lentic periphyton. However, species experience low light intensity, which becomes increasingly severe with increasing depth, and are often threatened by eutrophication-driven increased shading by phytoplankton. Besides change across depths and substrata, adaptations to disturbance levels, competition, microdistribution of phenological stages, and physiomorphological regulation generate multiple and complex spatial patterns at different scales. Lake shores are the focus of human activities with significant consequences for periphyton. In this review, we introduce a series of 15 papers on the topic and suggest directions for future research. Overall, this special series illustrates that, despite the many important ecosystem services provided by lake benthic algae, the topic is understudied.
10.1086/676635|Riverine ecosystems are linked to their watersheds, and both land use and physiographic environmental conditions influence nutrient dynamics and water quality. We assessed aquatic nutrients and their relationship with land use and physiographic conditions at multiple spatial scales in the Brazos River watershed (Texas, USA) to examine the interactions between land use and physiography and their combined influences on riverine nutrient dynamics. Patterns in physiography and land use were highly correlated, but physiographic gradients explained 2 more of the variability in riverine nutrient concentrations than land use (25 and 12%, respectively). The response of nutrient concentrations to spatial patterns of land use and physiography depended on the specific nutrient and scale of analysis. However, elevated dissolved nutrient concentrations typically were associated with areas of higher rainfall, greater stream density, and more intensive human alteration of the catchment. In contrast, particulate nutrients were more responsive to catchment area and seasonality. Seasonality and reach-scale % rangeland had the strongest independent effects on concentrations of particulate nutrients, whereas the specific ecoregion type and catchment-scale % urban use had the strongest independent effects on dissolved nutrients. Our study highlights the importance of incorporating physiographic environmental gradients when studying the interactions between a river and its watershed, especially in large, complex watersheds or those that cross steep environmental gradients.
10.1899/12-113.1|Ecologically meaningful and scientifically defensible nutrient criteria are needed to protect the water quality of USA streams. Criteria based on our best understanding of naturally occurring nutrient concentrations would protect both water quality and aquatic biota. Previous approaches to predicting natural background nutrient concentrations have relied on some form of landscape categorization (e.g., nutrient ecoregions) to account for natural variability among water bodies. However, natural variation within these regions is so high that use of a single criterion can underprotect naturally occurring low-nutrient streams and overprotect naturally occurring high-nutrient steams. We developed Random Forest models to predict how baseflow concentrations of total P (TP) and total N (TN) vary among western USA streams in response to continuous spatial variation in nutrient sources, sinks, or other processes affecting nutrient concentrations. Both models were relatively accurate (root mean square errors <12% of the range of observations for independent validation sites) and made better predictions than previous models of natural nutrient concentrations. However, the models were not very precise (TP model:
10.1086/675225|Species-level identifications are difficult or impossible for many larval aquatic macroinvertebrates. We described the taxonomic composition of macroinvertebrate communities from 5 coastal streams in 3 neighboring catchments in southern California. We compared taxonomic identifications based on deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding (cytochrome
10.1086/680400|The invasive Asian clam,
10.1899/11-046.1|Natural temporal variation in biological assemblages is generally acknowledged, but rarely controlled for in existing bioassessment approaches. Many bioassessment methods ignore the variation of assemblage structure through time and, thus, lack a process to evaluate the effects of natural temporal variation on their outcomes. We used an 11-y data set from 24 near-pristine reference streams (validation sites) and a 5-y data set from 10 streams exposed to human disturbance (test sites) in northern Finland to examine: 1) the amount of interannual variation in macroinvertebrate communities in both types of streams measured as variation in taxonomic completeness (i.e., ratio of observed/expected taxa; O/E ratio), and 2) how temporal variability affects bioassessment outcomes. Most of the variation in O/E values was explained by stream type (validation or test). Interannual variation in O/E was low at both validation and test sites, a result supporting the assumption of high constancy of biological assemblages through time. Temporal variation in O/E at validation sites was related to climatic factors (regional precipitation) and to some local environmental variables, e.g., substratum heterogeneity. Communities in validation and test sites responded differentially to climatic variation. The low interannual variation in O/E suggests that 1-y data from reference sites can be extrapolated across years relatively safely, but climatically extreme years may be problematic. Temporal variability in O/E was low at both types of sites, but it was still high enough to result in variable ecological status assessments across years, mainly at test sites with lower O/E ratios. Thus, at test sites, use of only 1-y data may cause erroneous management decisions, and accurate assessment of the biological quality of test sites might require repeated sampling over several years.
10.1899/12-070.1|Water clarity is a strong indicator of regional water quality. Unlike other common water-quality metrics, such as chlorophyll
10.1086/677214|Resources that cross ecosystem boundaries (subsidies) are common in nature, but we have little knowledge of how such resources affect individual traits and, consequently, ecological interactions. In wetlands, leaf litter is an important resource subsidy that regulates ecological processes including the production of consumer biomass. However, litter quality is highly variable and depends on local plant species diversity. Many aquatic consumers are highly nutrient limited, so differences in nutrients and other chemical components in litter are likely to affect numerous individual traits of consumers including life-history and sexually selected traits. We tested whether the species of tree leaf litter consumed by freshwater amphipods affected survival, growth, and development of sexually selected traits. Amphipods had higher survival, attained larger body sizes, and had larger male sexual traits when reared on litter that was relatively nutritious and low in plant secondary and structural compounds. Such widespread trait changes suggest that changing forest composition could have substantial effects on wetland ecology and the evolution of sexual traits over ecological time scales.
10.1086/682422|Restoration of ecological structure and function of urban streams probably requires catchment-scale modification of drainage infrastructure, but such catchment-scale restoration attempts and their assessment are rare. They require stream ecologists to embrace the interdisciplinary challenges of studying the socialecological systems that are urban catchments. We designed and monitored a catchment-scale experiment that involved the retrofit of urban stormwater infrastructure throughout an urban catchment to restore more natural hydrology, water quality, and consequently, ecological condition in the receiving stream. We worked with government authorities and the catchment community (residents and property owners) over several years to fund and implement 289 stormwater retention systems. The length of the project allowed adaptation of the experimental design to expand the projects breadth and of retention-system design to match community needs and catchment context. Planning provisions are particularly important for such an experiment to ensure that the effect of dispersed experimental treatments is not countered by creation of new connected impervious areas elsewhere in the catchment. Catchment-scale experiments can help to transform policy and practice, but their success requires substantial effort and time to build trust among the numerous, diverse stakeholders of human-dominated urban ecosystems. Researchers need to be prepared to adopt an adaptive approach to the implementation of such experiments and to play the lead role in seeking funds for the implementation of the on-ground works necessary to underpin the experiment.
10.1086/682234|The still-growing effect of human activities on aquatic habitats has led to proportionately increasing need for restoration activities. Paradoxically, restoration actions can constitute a major threat to freshwater assemblages if they do not respect the specific nature of the target biotopes. We investigated the dynamics of dragonfly assemblages in 20 mine-subsidence pools (habitats with very high and very unpredictable dynamics). We used multivariate methods and diversity indices to compare species richness and species composition of assemblages before and after reclamation actions. During the 10 y of the study, we recorded 10 cases in which aquatic habitats disappeared completely and 6 cases of recovery and successful recolonization of aquatic pools. Disturbances caused by reclamation actions led to significant reduction of diversity and to extirpation of sensitive dragonfly species. Moreover, unlike natural disturbances, disturbances caused by reclamation activity do not support the occurrence of species associated with early successional stages. Major interventions in freshwater habitats can cause alterations that often paradoxically may result in local extinction of sensitive species rather than strengthening of existing populations.
10.1899/11-142.1|Estimating demographic values and rates for populations of cryptic stream species frequently is difficult because of prohibitively low capture probabilities. When assessing cryptic populations, researchers often are forced to make simplifying assumptions that could alter their conclusions about a population. We constructed models based on different assumptions about cohort structure, behavioral responses to capture, temporary emigration, and survival in a cryptic, larval population of red salamanders (
10.1899/11-172.1|Species traits have been identified as a component of biodiversity that is worthy of investigation as a tool for exploring ecological effects of anthropogenic disturbances. We used meta-analysis to show how selected species traits of Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera can be used to examine the ecological effects of flow and water-level regulation in freshwater ecosystems used for hydropower generation. We hypothesized that hydrological regulation would favor an opportunistic ecological strategy and bring about increased similarity in species composition across samples. We found higher reproductive capacity, faster life cycles, and a tendency toward a changed composition of functional feeding groups in lotic stonefly assemblages in response to hydrological regulation. However, the effects of hydrological regulation on mayfly species traits and lentic stonefly species traits were limited. We found lower species turnover in mayflies and stoneflies from regulated than from unregulated lotic and lentic sites, a result suggesting selection of a subset of mayflies and stoneflies from the regional species pool by flow and water-level regulation. The limited support for our predictions probably reflects the comparatively low diversity of aquatic insect species in Norwegian freshwater ecosystems for biogeographical and historical reasons, phenotypic plasticity of the insects life histories and feeding habits, low trait diversity, trade-offs among species traits in a marginal region, restrictions to trait combinations and, perhaps, random extinction of mayflies and stoneflies caused by hydrological regulation. We advocate inclusion of species-trait variables that may affect ecosystem-level ecological processes in environmental assessment studies because a better understanding of trait-mediated ecological functioning should facilitate assessment of the ecological consequences of anthropogenic perturbations of freshwater ecosystems.
10.1899/12-118.1|Fire and grazers (such as
10.1899/12-130.1|Acidification of surface water is a persistent threat to aquatic ecosystems throughout the world. Several international policies have led to successful reductions of emissions of acidifying gases, but recovery of surface-water quality has been modest. Associated biological communities continue to suffer, and research on ecosystem functional response is sparse. We investigated shifts in macroinvertebrate communities, shifts in whole-stream metabolism, whether whole-stream metabolism is as sensitive an indicator of acidification as is benthic community structure, and shifts in stream food webs in 9 small forested streams exhibiting a pH gradient from 4.0 to 7.7 and belonging to the GEOchemical MONitoring (GEOMON) Network in the Czech Republic. Acidification was related to changes in macroinvertebrate communities including reduced taxon richness and reduced Ephemeroptera family richness and abundance. Whole-stream metabolism was not significantly related to stream pH and may be less sensitive to acidification than macroinvertebrate community metrics.
10.1899/12-082.1|Despite improved understanding of how aquatic organisms are influenced by environmental conditions at multiple scales, we lack a coherent multiscale approach for establishing stream conservation priorities in active coal-mining regions. We classified watershed conditions at 3 hierarchical spatial scales, following a houseneighborhoodcommunity approach, where houses (stream segments) are embedded within neighborhoods (Hydrologic Unit Code [HUC]-12 watersheds) embedded within communities (HUC-10 watersheds). We used this information to develop a framework to prioritize restoration and protection in two HUC-8 watersheds in an intensively mined region of the central Appalachians. We used landscape data to predict current conditions (water chemistry and macroinvertebrate biotic integrity) for all stream segments with boosted regression tree (BRT) analysis. Mining intensity, distance to mining, and coal type were the dominant predictors of water quality and biological integrity. A hardnesssalinity dimension of the water-chemistry data was explained by land-cover features and stream elevation. We compiled segment-level conditions to the HUC-12 and HUC-10 watershed scales to represent aquatic resource conditions hierarchically across 3 watershed-management scales. This process enabled us to relate stream-segment watershed conditions to watershed conditions in the broader context, and ultimately to identify key protection and restoration priorities in a metacommunity context. Our hierarchical classification system explicitly identifies stream restoration and protection priorities within a HUC-12 watershed context, which ensures that the benefits of restoration will extend beyond the stream reach. Highest protection priorities are high-quality HUC-12 watersheds adjacent to low-quality HUC-12 watersheds. Highest restoration priorities are HUC-12 watersheds in poorfair condition within HUC-10 watersheds of goodexcellent condition, whereas lowest restoration priorities are isolated HUC-12 watersheds. In high-priority HUC-12 watersheds, stream segments with the highest restoration priority are those that maximize watershed-scale restorability. A similar process for classifying conditions and restoration priorities may be valuable in other heavily impacted regions where strategic approaches are needed to maximize watershed-scale recovery.
10.1086/682707|The advance of the deforestation frontier in the Amazon forest, the largest tropical forest and one of the richest ecosystems in the world, has threatened several plant and animal species. A lack of good biogeographical information of their distributions and a shortage of basic knowledge on their ecology hinder the proper evaluation of the vulnerability of those species. We used species distribution modeling techniques to fill these gaps and to estimate the vulnerability of a forest-dwelling odonate endemic from the Amazon,
10.1086/680094|The importance of riparian diversity for the functioning of headwater streams has been demonstrated repeatedly. For example, mixing litter from different riparian tree species can influence their decomposition rates, an effect that is contingent on both the litter assemblage and the detritivore community. However, the effects of mixing litter species have been studied mostly in temperate streams, and very few studies have been done in non-temperate streams. Mediterranean streams are often subjected to recurrent flow intermittency, and their riparian tree and stream detritivore communities have unique sets of species and traits, which probably influence the effects of litter mixtures on decomposition. We hypothesized that high dissimilarity in litter traits could promote effects of litter mixtures on decomposition that would be counteracted by the low abundance and small body size of detritivores in Mediterranean streams. We manipulated litter diversity and the size-class and presence/absence of detritivores in a 2
10.1086/674967|Hydrologic indices can be used in macroecological models of fish species richness. I used fish distributions and river flow records from 89 river basins in the Pacific Northwest (USA) to identify robust associations between aspects of flow and fish species richness. I calculated 148 hydrologic indices for each basin, created single-predictor regression models for each hydrologic index, and tested for significant relationships between native fish species richness and specific components of flow. I used multiple regression to test the significance and fit of models that combined hydrologic indices that were not highly collinear indices. Significant linear relationships (
10.1086/675860|An unknown green alga (order Ulvales) was a dominant macroalga in the rocky littoral zone of Lake Garda (southeastern Alps). Morphological and phylogenetic analyses indicated the alga was in the genus
10.1899/11-067.1|Adults and larvae of a new species of
10.1899/12-158.1|Life-history knowledge is central to basic and applied ecology, but recent reviews show that knowledge of life histories of many freshwater invertebrates is incomplete because of difficulty in conducting such studies or a general decline of interest in natural-history research. We review and summarize published life histories for crayfishes native to the USA and Canada. We document the rate of accumulation of crayfish life-history knowledge and biases and gaps in life-history knowledge by taxonomic group, geography, habitat preference, and conservation status. A total of 78 published studies (59 papers; several included life-history information for multiple species) covering 42 (12%) of the 347 USA and Canadian crayfishes recognized as of 2007 met our criteria for crayfish life-history studies. Life-history studies were lacking for crayfishes of conservation concern and stygobitic or primary burrowing-habitat specialists. Life-history knowledge is relatively complete for low-diversity freshwater ecoregions of northern and western North America, but lacking for high-diversity freshwater ecoregions of the southeastern USA. From 1972 to 2007, an average of 3.40 new crayfish species/y were described, whereas 0.63 species/y were added to the list of crayfishes with published life-history studies. Thus, taxonomic knowledge is expanding faster than ecological or life-history knowledge of these same species, inevitably limiting our ability to manage and conserve them. We conclude with suggestions for increasing publication of crayfish life-history studies, and priorities for regions, taxonomic groups, and life-history traits that require urgent attention. We also present a database of existing crayfish life-history studies for researchers interested in life-history questions and to provide a foundation for traits-based inquiries into crayfish macroecology and applied questions in conservation like the prediction of extinction and invasion risk.
10.1899/12-166.2|Phenotypic plasticity of ecologically relevant traits relating to physiology, behavior, morphology, and life history is widespread and can affect the ecology and evolution of organisms. In streams, phenotypic plasticity in morphology and corresponding differences in performance have been documented for fishes and, to a lesser extent, for macroinvertebrates. Morphological plasticity in crayfish has not been addressed but, if present, has the potential to interact with behaviorally plastic traits to affect performance in high water velocities. Lake and stream invasions of rusty crayfish,
10.1086/674782|Benthic macroinvertebrate community composition is used to assess wetland and stream condition and to help differentiate the effects of stressors among sites. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding has been promoted as a way to increase taxonomic resolution and, thereby, to increase the sensitivity of bioassessment metrics. We compared the ability of several commonly used bioassessment metrics calculated with data derived from morphology and from DNA barcoding to detect differences in stream condition of 6 paired sites in southern California with relatively subtle impacts to habitat. At each site, we sampled an upstream (reference) reach and a downstream (impact) reach with armored stream banks. We counted and identified 600 organisms/sample based on morphology (generally to species, but to genus for midges). We then extracted mitochondrial (mt)DNA from each individual and sequenced the 658-base pair (bp) barcoding region of the cytochrome
10.1086/675448|Native freshwater mussels can influence the aquatic N cycle, but the mechanisms and magnitude of this effect are not fully understood. We assessed the effects of
10.1899/12-168.1|Chironomid larvae possess giant polytene chromosomes. When genes on these chromosomes undergo transcription, they are visible as puffs. The nucleolar organizer region (NOR), visible as an especially large puff, shrinks when a larva is at particular developmental stages or is subjected to chemical stress. However, whether reduced NOR size is indicative of reduced growth is unknown. Therefore, we conducted 2 experiments to examine the relationship between NOR size and chironomid growth under controlled laboratory conditions. In the 1
10.1086/679223|Freshwater ecosystems are severely impacted by changes in riparian vegetation and eutrophication, but their interactive effects on litter decomposition and associated biota remain poorly understood. We placed 5 leaf species in coarse-mesh bags alone or in mixtures and immersed them in 6 low-order streams along a eutrophication gradient. Fungal and invertebrate assemblages were mainly structured by stream eutrophication. The quality of leaf species also structured fungal assemblages, whereas the number of leaf species structured invertebrate assemblages. Effects of leaf diversity on decomposition were synergistic and increased with the number of leaf species. However, the synergistic diversity effects were found only in streams with lower nutrient levels, a result suggesting that oligotrophic streams depend more than eutrophic streams on the number of plant litter species. On the other hand, leaf species identity affected leaf-litter decomposition and fungal and invertebrate biomasses on leaves. Initial leaf N concentration and leaf-litter decomposition were positively linearly related, and this relationship became stronger as eutrophication increased. This result suggests that leaf-litter decomposition depends more on the quality than the number of plant litter species in eutrophic streams. Overall, our results highlight that eutrophication modulates leaf diversity effects on leaf-litter decomposition with potential implications for stream ecosystem management.
10.1899/12-024.1|Community dynamics in temporary waters are constrained by the hydroregime (depth, timing, duration, frequency, and predictability of water in an aquatic habitat), which in turn is influenced by climatic patterns and anthropogenic use of water in the landscape. Declining rainfall in regions with a Mediterranean climate, such as southwestern Australia, has decreased the depth and duration of water in temporary wetlands, potentially altering the composition of invertebrate communities. We used a long-term data set (625y) to examine temporal changes in hydroregimes and aquatic invertebrate diversity (based on species presence/absence) at 9 seasonal wetlands. The study wetlands maintained distinctly seasonal hydroregimes, despite declining rainfall and the contraction of wetland hydroperiods. Distance-based redundancy analysis (dbRDA) indicated that conductivity, NO
10.1086/676951|An understanding of the interactions among local environmental factors (e.g., physical habitat and water quality) and aquatic assemblages is essential to conserve biodiversity in tropical and subtropical headwater streams. We evaluated the relative importance of multiple physical and chemical habitat variables that influence the richness of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) assemblages in wadeable Brazilian Cerrado (savanna) streams. We sampled macroinvertebrate assemblages and quantified physical and chemical habitat in 79 randomly selected sites in 2 Cerrado basins in southeastern Brazil. The environmental variables selected by multiple regression models (MLRs) via corrected Akaike Information Criteria (
10.1086/674704|Variation in specific conductivity and major ions in streams must be understood to assess the effects of changes in ionic strength and salinity on stream biota. I compiled data for randomly selected sites from surveys conducted from 1985 to 2009 by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). I followed EPA methods to estimate reference values for specific conductivity (60 ecoregions) and each major ion (34 ecoregions) as the 25
10.1086/684074|Intermittent streams drain much of the worlds tropical savannas, yet these vitally important stream ecosystems are among the most poorly understood components of tropical savannas. Fire is a widely used management tool in tropical savannas, but the effects of prescribed burning on savanna streams or riparian zones have not been investigated experimentally. This study was undertaken within a catchment-scale, replicated experiment to determine the effect of prescribed burning on savanna riparian zones in northern Australia. Regardless of position along the stream, burning had dramatic effects on the composition and structure of the riparian vegetation. Woody species richness and total abundance, the abundance of small- and medium-sized trees, total basal area, canopy cover, and the richness and cover of vines were reduced by burning, whereas grass cover was much higher in burned areas. Fire also reduced seed production of the dominant riparian eucalypt. This study adds greatly to our understanding of the effects of fire management on savanna riparian zones and demonstrates that they are far more fire sensitive than the surrounding savanna.
10.1086/678702|Reference Condition Approach bioassessment programs have been in place in the northern and Muskoka regions of Ontario, Canada, for many years. Assessments are carried out regularly to evaluate and monitor the effects of a variety of activities, including mining, forestry, and cottage development. These programs are run by the Co-operative Freshwater Ecology Unit (CFEU) at Laurentian University in Sudbury, Canada, and the Dorset Environmental Science Centre (DESC) in Muskoka, Canada. We applied 2 bioassessment methods used at the CFEU and DESC to 3 data sets that were subjected to simulated impact by nutrient enrichments to compare their performance with a number of other bioassessment methods. We used Assessment by Nearest Neighbour Analysis (ANNA) and a Redundancy Analysis (RDA) variation of ANNA with Test Site Analysis (TSA) to identify subsets of reference sites to compare with a given simulated impact test site based on habitat matching. We compared the benthic macroinvertebrate (BMI) communities and evaluated the differences between the validation and training sites to assess the degree of impairment. After assessing all impacted sites, we calculated Type 1 and Type 2 error rates. ANNA and RDA separated sites with different levels of simulated impact in an Australian data set of diverse benthic macroinvertebrate communities distributed along a habitat gradient. In contrast, our assessments did not perform well with 2 data sets for which the simulation did not behave as expected, perhaps because of impoverished communities.
10.1899/12-142.1|
               
10.1899/12-166.1|We used radio telemetry to track the daily movements of
10.1086/674141|Median lethal temperature (LT50) data from water-only exposures with the early life stages of freshwater mussels suggest that some species may be living near their upper thermal tolerances. However, evaluation of thermal sensitivity has never been conducted in sediment. Mussels live most of their lives burrowed in sediment, so understanding the effect of sediment on thermal sensitivity is a necessary step in evaluating the effectiveness of the water-only standard method, on which the regulatory framework for potential thermal criteria currently is based, as a test of thermal sensitivity. We developed a method for testing thermal sensitivity of juvenile mussels in sediment and used the method to assess thermal tolerance of 4 species across a range of temperatures common during summer. Stream beds may provide a thermal refuge in the wild, but we hypothesized that the presence of sediment alone does not alter thermal sensitivity. We also evaluated the effects of 2 temperature acclimation levels (22 and 27C) and 2 water levels (watered and dewatered treatments). We then compared results from the sediment tests to those conducted using the water-only standard methods. We also conducted water-only LT tests with mussel larvae (glochidia) for comparison with the juvenile life stage. We found few consistent differences in thermal tolerance between sediment and water-only treatments, between acclimation temperatures, between water-level treatments, among species, or between juvenile and glochidial life stages (LT50 range = 33.337.2C; mean = 35.6C), supporting our hypothesis that the presence of sediment alone does not alter thermal sensitivity. The method we developed has potential for evaluating the role of other stressors (e.g., contaminants) in a more natural and complex environment.
10.1899/12-002.1|Alterations to the natural flow regime affect the structure and function of rivers and wetlands and contribute to loss of biodiversity worldwide. Although the effects of flow regulation have been relatively well studied, a lack of synthesis of the ecological consequences of low flows and droughts impedes research progress and our grasp of the mechanistic effects of human-induced water reductions on riverine ecosystems. We identified 6 ecologically relevant hydrological attributes of low flow (antecedent conditions, duration, magnitude, timing and seasonality, rate of change, and frequency) that act within the temporal hierarchy of the flow regime and a spatial context. We synthesized the literature to propose 4 principles that outline the mechanistic links between these low-flow attributes and the processes and patterns within riverine ecosystems. First, low flows control the extent of physical aquatic habitat, thereby affecting the composition of biota, trophic structure, and carrying capacity. Second, low flows mediate changes in habitat conditions and water quality, which in turn, drive patterns of distribution and recruitment of biota. Third, low flows affect sources and exchange of material and energy in riverine ecosystems, thereby affecting ecosystem production and biotic composition. Last, low flows restrict connectivity and diversity of habitat, thereby increasing the importance of refugia and driving multiscale patterns in biotic diversity. These principles do not operate in isolation, and many of the ecological pathways that are affected by low flows are likely to overlap or occur simultaneously, potentially resulting in synergistic and complex effects. Last, we outlined major human-induced threats to low-flow hydrology and how they act upon the ecologically relevant hydrological attributes of low flow to affect potential changes in riverine ecosystem integrity. The mechanistic links described in this synthesis can be used to develop and test hypotheses of low-flow hydrologicalecological response relationships in a causeeffect framework that will have value for both research and river flow management. Continued experimental research and ongoing consolidation of ecological information will improve our understanding and ability to predict consequences of low-flow alteration on river, floodplain, and estuarine ecosystems.
10.1086/679665|
               
10.1086/676313|Epipelic microphototrophs perform a range of ecosystem functions including biostabilization of sediments, regulation of benthiclimnetic nutrient cycling, and primary production. This review summarizes the most recent research of lake/pond phototrophic epipelic taxa and highlights the importance of an approach to identifying these algae that combines classic and modern methods, particularly metagenomics and sequencing. The contribution of true epipelic chlorophyll
10.1086/677215|Characterizing biologically relevant stream disturbance regimes is challenging, but necessary to answer questions about disturbance effects on ecological processes. No universally accepted approach exists for characterizing stream disturbance regimes. Our goal was to evaluate approaches that can be applied to test effects of disturbance on benthic organisms. We defined disturbance as events or environmental conditions caused by changes in stream discharge that affect the stability or habitability of the stream bed. We used several metrics to describe disturbance regimes of mountain streams that were not permanently gauged in 1 catchment, and considered the trade-off between effort required to obtain the data and the quality of information gained. We used an innovative photographic method to assess substrate particle movement empirically as a benchmark for comparison to other indicators of channel stability and to metrics describing hydrologic variability relevant to streambed stability. We used a model selection procedure to choose the best combination of individual variables to explain variation in substrate particle movement and included those variables in a multivariate axis of disturbance that can be applied to evaluate effects of disturbance on benthic organisms. Individual variables with the highest explanatory power were maximum daily increase in discharge and the Pfankuch index of channel stability. Substrate particle size and stream size (drainage basin area) were related to the multivariate index of disturbance, but channel gradient was not. Protocols used to measure substrate stability and to obtain the multivariate index of disturbance were labor intensive, but our analyses indicate it may be reasonable to use more easily measured variables (e.g., Pfankuch index) to estimate disturbance to benthic organisms at local scales, although explanatory power may be reduced. Our analyses provide a menu of options to estimate variation in local disturbance regimes of ungauged mountain streams that may not be adequately explained by extrapolation from hydrographs of gauged streams.
10.1086/675727|Benthic diatom assemblages from 179 streams and 98 lakes in Sweden were compared to identify differences in taxonomic composition, growth form, cell size, diversity and richness, and ultimately, to assess the effects of differences between streams and lakes on assessments. Streams and lakes with similar environmental background variables were chosen to avoid an overriding effect of factors, such as nutrients and pH, on taxonomic composition. Generic and species composition differed significantly between streams and lakes. Richness was significantly higher in lakes than in streams, and the average diatom cell was significantly longer in streams than in lakes. No other measures analyzed differed significantly. Diatom assemblages in both habitats were related to pH and nutrients, and the diatom indices studied responded similarly to the main environmental gradients in both habitats. Thus, despite differences in taxonomic composition between streams and lakes, the resulting diatom assemblages are similar, enabling use of the same diatom indices in both habitats.
10.1899/11-017.1|Genus-specific and total secondary production of a nonbiting midge assemblage (Chironomidae) were estimated along a hyporheic gradient (surface to 4050-cm depth) in 2 contrasting stream types and 3 habitat types in north-central Alabama to assess the extent of the variation within a river basin. Total production (surface + hyporheic) was much higher in a gravelcobble habitat (68gm
10.1086/680987|European frogbit (
10.1086/681302|Balancing the freshwater needs of humans and ecosystems is a fundamental challenge for the management of rivers worldwide. River regulation and water extraction can affect all components of the natural flow regime, yet few studies have investigated the effects on the low-flow end of the hydrograph. Low-flow periods are hydrologically distinctive and ecologically important, varying in nature among climatic zones. Tropical savannah rivers are characterized by highly seasonal and predictable flow regimes, but with high interannual variation in the magnitude, timing, and duration of low flows. Many tropical savannah rivers are relatively intact, especially in northern Australia, but many are now receiving increasing attention for water-resource development through surface- and groundwater extraction. We identified the hydroecological effects of water extraction on 3 phases of the seasonal flow regime: the wetdry transition, dry season, and drywet season transition for perennial and intermittent rivers in tropical savannah climates. We propose a conceptual model and 7 predictions that describe the ecological implications of dry-season water extraction in tropical savannah river systems worldwide. The predictions address: 1) connectivity, 2) availability of in-stream habitat, 3) dry-season persistence of in-channel refugia, 4) water quality during drywet and wetdry transition periods, 5) decoupling of wet- and dry-season flows, and the cumulative effects on 6) groundwater-dependent species and 7) whole-ecosystem shifts. We used northern Australia as a case study to review the current level of evidence in support of these predictions and their potential ecological consequences, and used this review to propose key priorities for future research that are globally applicable.
10.1086/681095|Abstract: In terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, organisms directly affect nutrient storage and cycling by sequestering nutrients via growth and remineralizing nutrients via excretion and egestion. Therefore, species introductions and extirpations can profoundly affect nutrient storage and remineralization rates, and present a challenge for conserving ecosystem function in fresh waters. The literature of consumer-driven nutrient dynamics is growing rapidly, but studies of consumer effects on nutrient storage and remineralization across species and among ecosystems are limited. We compared the effects of 3 grazing taxa, nonnative armored catfish in Mexican streams, native mussels in Oklahoma streams, and native tadpoles in Panamanian streams, on nutrient storage and remineralization. We examined interactions among organismal stoichiometry and biomass, nutrient storage, remineralization rates, and ecosystem size across these 3 groups following species decline (tadpoles and mussels) or introduction (armored catfish) to gain a better understanding of organism-specific effects on nutrient dynamics among freshwater ecosystems. Collectively, our results suggest that the ecosystem-level effect of consumer-driven nutrient dynamics is strongly influenced by environmental variables and is taxon specific. Major changes in biomass of stoichiometrically distinctive organisms can lead to subsequent changes in the flux and storage of elements in an ecosystem, but the overall effect of aquatic animals on nutrient dynamics also is determined by discharge and nutrient-limitation patterns in streams and rivers.
10.1086/678465|Accurate and precise estimates of relationships between stressors and environmental responses can inform management decisions most usefully when models can be easily interpreted. Here, we describe an approach for classifying lakes and reservoirs that can improve estimates of the relationships between total P (TP) and chlorophyll
10.1086/675931|The deep littoral zone hosts a unique but understudied subset of lake periphyton. We investigated epilithic cyanoprokaryotes in a carbonate meromictic lake (Lake Tovel, southeastern Alps) to obtain information on 2 poorly known, deep-dwelling coccoid species (one new to science) and to analyze their distribution in light of the current understanding of the depth distribution of lake periphyton. Cyanoprokaryotes in Lake Tovel have distinct depth distributions among 3 zones: shallow (04 m), mid-depth (612 m), and deep (1524 m). The mid-depth and deep zones are characterized by high stability with favorable growth conditions and by severe light limitation, respectively. Both zones have unique taxa that frequently possess colorless sheaths or pinkredviolet cell contents. The 2 most poorly known cyanoprokaryotes found in Lake Tovel (both pinkredviolet) were a species of
10.1899/11-026.1|Macroinvertebrate species composition data are often expressed as proportional abundances when assessing water-quality conditions or responses to disturbance. Proportional abundances represent the probability of belonging to one of many mutually exclusive and exhaustive groups (taxa). Proportional abundances have some unique properties that must be considered when analyzing these data: 1) the probabilities of group membership must sum to 1 and 2) a change in any 1 group affects all other groups. We used multinomial regressions to analyze changes in proportional abundances along gradients of urbanization in 9 metropolitan areas across the USA. Multinomial regression can be used to address multiple nonlinear responses simultaneously, whereas simple linear regressions must be used to analyze linear or polynomial responses of each group independently. We established that: 1) abundance ratios of tolerant and moderately tolerant groups responded consistently (35% increase in the ratios for every 1% increase in developed land cover in the watershed) across the urban gradient, 2) functional groups did not change significantly, and 3) ratios based on assemblage metrics were better indicators of environmental disturbance than ratios based on individual taxa. Multinomial regression, with its flexible model form, can capture patterns of species succession along a resource or stressor gradient. Our results also demonstrate that users of multinomial regression may encounter numerical problems with rare taxa, especially when these taxa have a complete separation along the gradient. Consequently, multinomial regressions are more suitable for analyzing aggregations of taxa or taxon traits.
10.1899/13-036.1|Competitive exclusion is a commonly cited mechanism of species replacement in nonindigenous crayfish introductions. However, even when it seems highly plausible, it may not be the driving mechanism. We sought to identify competition-driven habitat shifts in populations of native St Francis River crayfish
10.1086/678228|The nearshore zones of the Great Lakes provide essential habitat for biota and are perhaps the region of the lakes most susceptible to human impacts. The objective of our study was to develop a fish habitat classification for the nearshore zone of Lake Ontario based on physical characteristics of that zone, land cover in the surrounding watershed, and fish community patterns. Nearly 80% of the spatial variation in fish community data was described by 2 physical variables (average fetch and bathymetric slope of the nearshore zone) and 2 land-cover variables (urban/industrial development and mixed forest cover) in adjacent watersheds. These variables are likely to be surrogates for other conditions in the nearshore, such as wave action, circulation, vegetation, and water quality. A 12-group fish habitat classification was developed from those variables. Validation and significance tests identified similarities and differences among the fish communities in the classes and indicated that the number of classes should be collapsed to 3: exposed, sheltered, and developed/urbanized. In general, the western basin of the lake was developed, the central region was exposed, and the eastern region of the lake was a mix of exposed and sheltered classes. These results highlight that even in lakes as large as Lake Ontario, the nearshore fish community is influenced by watershed land cover, and emphasize that management or restoration of the nearshore ecosystem in lakes will require integration of aquatic, watershed, and land-cover management.
10.1899/11-065.1|Spring habitats are highly diverse and have a mosaic microhabitat structure. They are endangered by diffuse exploitation as drinking-water resources, an impact likely to increase with climate change. Diatoms were sampled from stones and bryophytes in 110 nonthermal, near-natural springs in the southeastern Alps (Trentino) and 16 carbonate springs in the Dolomiti Bellunesi National Park. Fuzzy clustering identified 6 assemblages in the main types of springs. Carbonate rheocrenes hosted
10.1086/681252|Urbanization is occurring rapidly in southeastern Asia where streams are increasingly pressured. We assessed the ecological integrity of Ampang River in Kuala Lumpur by comparing structural and functional measures between forested and urban sites. We assessed 4 forested, 1 intermediate (deforested, not channelized), and 5 urban, channelized sites. Urbanization altered substrate (concrete at urban sites), riparian vegetation, light, temperature, O
10.1899/13-077.1|The stone crayfish,
10.1899/11-113.1|Fish-mediated nutrient recycling influences nutrient dynamics in stream ecosystems, but its consequences for smaller-scale microbial processes in benthic habitats are not well understood. We quantified the effect of nutrient recycling by the grazing fish,
10.1899/12-028.1|Freshwater mussels (Bivalvia:Unionidae) are among the most imperiled organisms in North America. Information on the spatial scale of reproduction and population connectivity will better enable mussel conservation programs to sustain long-term population viability, particularly restocking and recovery programs. Here we used genetic methods to characterize population structure, dispersal potential, and reproductive strategies in the freshwater mussel
10.1086/683606|Biological invasions impose severe threats to biodiversity, and the extent of this phenomenon is predicted to intensify under climate warming. Only a few investigators have examined how temperature interacts with other environmental variables to affect competition between native and invasive species.
10.1086/679756|We propose the Stream Biome Gradient Concept as a way to predict macroscale biological patterns in streams. This concept is based on the hypothesis that many abiotic and biotic features of streams change predictably along climate (temperature and precipitation) gradients because of direct influences of climate on hydrology, geomorphology, and interactions mediated by terrestrial vegetation. The Stream Biome Gradient Concept generates testable hypotheses related to continental variation among streams worldwide and allows aquatic scientists to understand how results from one biome might apply to a less-studied biome. Some predicted factors change monotonically across the biome/climate gradients, whereas others have maxima or minima in the central portion of the gradient. For example, predictions across the gradient from drier deserts through grasslands to wetter forests include more permanent flow, less bare ground, lower erosion and sediment transport rates, decreased importance of autochthonous C inputs to food webs, and greater stream animal species richness. In contrast, effects of large ungulate grazers on streams are expected to be greater in grasslands than in forests or deserts, and fire is expected to have weaker effects in grassland streams than in desert and forest streams along biome gradients with changing precipitation and constant latitude or elevation. Understanding historic patterns among biomes can help describe the evolutionary template at relevant biogeographic scales, can be used to broaden other conceptual models of stream ecology, and could lead to better management and conservation across the broadest scales.
10.1086/683484|Smoldering fires in organic soils have negative effects on air quality and motorist safety as well as global implications from their release of large quantities of refractory C. However, the ecological implications of their occurrence are relatively unexplored despite their potential importance to the management of wetland ecosystems. We developed a conceptual model of the ecohydrologic implications of peat-consuming fires that explores the interactive effects of fire, hydrology, and C dynamics on hydrology. We modify an existing wetland hydrology model parameterized with climate, soil, and spatial data from a low-relief region in southern Florida (USA) to explore hypothesized pyrogeomorphic changes to upland water table elevation, wetland inundation (depth and hydroperiod), and groundwater exchange as a function of fire severity (area and depth of burn). Smoldering fires increase hydroperiod and storage in organic soils in burned wetlands by changing soil elevation. After fire, negative feedbacks to fire occurrence are likely because of increased hydroperiods in burned areas. However, adjacent, unburned wetland areas and uplands may experience drier conditions that increase fire frequency in distal locations. Simulation results indicate that increasing the area of soil combustion or depth of burn increases wetland hydroperiod, flooding depths, and groundwater exchange between wetlands and surrounding uplands. Additional field data characterizing fire effects on organic soil elevations and wetland bathymetry are needed, but the model supports our hypothesis about the effects of soil-consuming fires on hydrology and habitat, and these results will inform future work on the ecological role of peat-consuming fires.
10.1899/12-116.1|We compared hydrological environments and macroinvertebrate communities in 1
10.1086/679595|Small streams and their adjacent riparian zones contribute disproportionately to the processing and transport of C compared to the catchment area and, thereby, may alter the flux of dissolved organic C (DOC) from aquatic ecosystems. We examined the factors influencing C uptake and CO
10.1899/12-105.1|Seasonal variation in macroinvertebrate assemblages usually is attributed to environmental variability, but this relationship is unclear in temporary ponds because they are highly dynamic across time. We assessed the influence of environmental variables and biotic interactions on macroinvertebrate community structure in 22 temporary ponds sampled monthly over 2 successive years that differed in rainfall. We hypothesized that abiotic and biotic variables would have different influences on macroinvertebrates having different dispersal abilities (capable of dispersal or not) and dietary modes (predaceous or not). Constrained Analysis of Principal Coordinates showed mainly seasonal influences on community assembly. During the filling phase, water-column total P (TP) and pH were important, whereas maximum depth, pH, electrical conductivity, and dissolved O
10.1899/11-031.1|Riparian buffers provide improved protection for water quality and biota, and narrow, fixed-width buffers of native vegetation along streams have been used to mitigate the effects of forest harvest at least since the 1960s. The practice of leaving unmanaged strips of vegetation along water courses in agricultural lands had been used before the 1960s in southern Europe and in eastern North America, but the scientific basis for leaving riparian buffers on forested lands came from observations in the coastal temperate rainforests of western North America. Those observations often were applied to other forested landscapes without further considerations. Fixed-width buffers are administratively simple to implement and assess, and have come to be the norm for streamside protection from forestry. Most guidelines for streamside protection allow some local modification for site and watershed-scale considerations, but frequently, the option to deviate from fixed-width buffers is not exercised because of uncertainty about outcomes. Few experiments have been done to test the efficacy of buffers of a particular width or of site- or landscape-specific modifications.
10.1899/11-059.1|Despite extensive research on the link between disturbance and diversity in ecology and several eloquent models to describe the relationship, a universally applicable model remains elusive. However, most investigations of the diversitydisturbance relationship have been limited in spatial coverage. Recent theoretical and conceptual advances in macroecology suggest that such spatially constrained studies may limit interpretation. To explore the effect of geographic location on the disturbancediversity relationship, we examined invertebrate assemblages in streams of northern Spain and New Zealand (NZ) and in multiple regions within NZ. Habitat characteristics were similar across all sites and locations, except that undisturbed sites (springbrooks) differed from disturbed sites (rhithral streams) by having constant thermal and hydrologic regimes. The resource base and the density of invertebrates were greater in the more-stable habitats in all regions. However, patterns of invertebrate species richness differed markedly between locations in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. Springbrooks in all regions within NZ had greater richness than rhithral streams. In contrast, springbrooks in Spain had considerably lower species richness than rhithral streams. Thus, low hydrological disturbance in Spain yielded low diversity, whereas in NZ it yielded high diversity. Amphipoda dominated the springbrook faunas in Spain, whereas insects dominated in NZ. Thus, differences in the diversity patterns between Spain and NZ are potentially related to phylogenetic differences or environmental constraints on life-history cues. A universal model to link disturbance and diversity is more likely to be successful if it incorporates life-history traits rather than morphological traits.
10.1086/683120|Litter breakdown is a pivotal ecosystem function in headwater streams, where it fuels food webs and controls C flux. Breakdown rates depend on environmental characteristics and can display strong seasonal variation, particularly in intermittent streams. To identify the environmental factors driving seasonality of litter breakdown, we ran 5 breakdown experiments with poplar leaves during the wet phase (NovemberAugust) in a 3
10.1086/678701|The status of biological assemblages is often inferred by comparing observational assemblage data with reference data generated by a predictive model. Limiting environmental difference analysis (LEDA) applies the ecological concepts of distance decay of similarity and limiting factor theory to model reference data by extrapolation from samples collected at reference sites. I applied LEDA modeling to data sets from the Australian Capital Territory (ACT), Laurentian Great Lakes (GL), and Canadian Yukon Territory (YT) to test its accuracy and precision in predicting the composition of benthic macroinvertebrate samples from reference sites, and its specificity and sensitivity in detecting mathematically simulated human impacts on sample composition. LEDA models were significantly and substantially more accurate than null models for all 3 data sets, but not significantly more precise. They mostly assessed unimpacted samples correctly but seldom detected mild simulated impacts. However, they often detected moderate and usually detected severe impacts. Model performance for the test data sets probably was constrained by limitations of the environmental predictor variables and low taxonomic richness in many samples. The simulated impacts provided insight into model behavior but were limited in their scope and realism. I suggest that future simulations should separately test detection of different kinds of assemblage change, not only different intensities, and should address the consequences of human alteration of predictor variables.
10.1086/674360|Organisms often experience trade-offs between behaviors necessary for food acquisition and predator avoidance. In mesocosms and microcosms, we manipulated the risk and resource environments of grazing mayflies (
10.1086/680962|Government agencies frequently conduct benthic macroinvertebrate surveys for bioassessment at large spatial scales in a variety of aquatic habitats, including large rivers. However, these data are rarely used by investigators outside the specific regulatory agency. We used data from 150 benthic macroinvertebrate samples collected over a period of 20 y from 10 locations in a large, shallow river system (the Susquehanna River and 2 major tributaries) by personnel in 4 government agencies to explore broad spatial and temporal patterns in benthic assemblages. We standardized sample size and taxonomy to account for differences in sampling, processing, and identification methods among agencies. Invertebrate assemblages were dominated by mayflies and caddisflies (4683%). Percent Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera (EPT) and standard diversity measures were inversely correlated, indicating that traditional macroinvertebrate Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) approaches might not be applicable to large rivers. These data showed differences in assemblage composition across sub-basins and revealed effects of the spread of invasive Asian clams and of black fly management on benthic assemblage structure in the river. Large-river invertebrates are understudied and, even with challenges of combining data sets from multiple agencies, we showed the potential utility of applying data from a large river system to reveal ecological patterns across space and time.
10.1086/675932|The filamentous cyanobacterium
10.1899/12-145.1|Presence/absence sampling designs are commonly used approaches for documenting the occurrence of benthic invertebrates, but these methods often provide biased indices of occupancy or abundance. Unionids are particularly susceptible to bias associated with nondetection because of their generally low abundance and burrowing behavior. We present a case study in which we used an occupancy-modeling approach that incorporates estimation of detection probability to assess the occurrence of unionids at 39 locations along a 119-km reach of Flint River, Georgia. We fitted models relating site- and reach-level variables to detection and occupancy for 3 species of conservation concern and contrasted inferences drawn between models accounting for variable imperfect detection and models assuming constant imperfect detection. We collected 20 unionid species among 39 sites. Among species, detection probabilities averaged 0.25 and ranged from 0.01 to 0.69, and estimated occupancy averaged 0.56 and ranged from 0.03 to 1.00. Estimated occupancy across all species was, on average, 25.78% greater than nave occupancy (i.e., proportion of sites without accounting for incomplete detection). Detection probabilities varied by species, time, macrohabitat, and searcher experience. Inferences regarding factors affecting species occupancy differed among models contrasting detection as variable or constant but imperfect. The occupancy-modeling approach was a useful and efficient method to assess the distribution and habitat relationships of unionids in the lower Flint River. We think that detection probability is an underused but necessary parameter that should be evaluated during sampling to provide a measure of confidence in benthic invertebrate data and to account for potential sources of bias.
10.1899/11-150.1|Much is known about invertebrate community traits in basins across Europe, but no comprehensive description of traits exists for the continental US. Little is known about the trait composition of invertebrates in reference or least-disturbed basins of the US, how trait composition varies among ecoregions, or how consistently traits respond to land use. These elements are essential to development of trait-based tools for conservation and assessment of biological integrity. We compared invertebrate traits of least-disturbed basins among ecoregions of the US. Benthic invertebrate data (presence/absence) from 1987 basins were translated into 56 binary traits (e.g., bivoltine, clinger). Basins were classified as least-disturbed, agricultural, or urban, and grouped into 9 ecoregions. Landuse, climatic, physiographic, and hydrologic data were used to describe ecoregions and to evaluate least-disturbed basin quality. The unique habitat template of each ecoregion selected for trait compositions in least-disturbed basins that differed among ecoregions. Among the traits examined, life-history (e.g., voltinism, development) and ecological traits (e.g., rheophily, thermal preference) differed most among ecoregions. Agricultural and urban land uses selected for trait compositions that differed from least-disturbed, but the extent of the differences depended on ecoregion and quality of the least-disturbed basins. No trait compositions unique to specific land uses were found. However, a
10.1086/676315|Periphyton and phytoplankton contribute to the base of lake food webs, and both groups of microalgae are influenced by resources and physical forcing. Spatial variation in light availability interacts with the physical dynamics of the water column to create predictable depth gradients in resources and disturbance that may differentially affect periphyton vs phytoplankton. We characterized the depth distribution of chlorophyll and productivity of periphyton on sediments (epipelon) and phytoplankton in the euphotic zones of 13 oligomesotrophic lakes that span a large size gradient (0.01732,600 km
10.1086/681086|Urbanization alters water physical and chemical variables and may affect leaf-litter breakdown in streams. Higher temperature and nutrient inputs in urban streams can stimulate microbial biomass, which can increase leaf-litter breakdown rates over rates in nonurban streams. On the other hand, urbanization can reduce leaf-litter breakdown rates by eliminating shredders. We evaluated physical, chemical, and biological factors that may directly and indirectly affect leaf-litter breakdown of
10.1086/681917|Stream networks are vulnerable to fragmentation. Anthropogenic structures, such as dams and culverts, can isolate stream branches, potentially interrupting longitudinal gradients of fish distribution. The effect of single barriers is well documented, but the effect of multiple barriers in small streams is not as well characterized. We used a landscape approach and spatially continuous sampling across 2 y to examine the influence of anthropogenic structures on fish distributions in an urban stream network. After accounting for spatial autocorrelation, we found higher Coastal Cutthroat Trout (
10.1899/12-160.1|Burrowing crayfish are potentially important ecological links between terrestrial and aquatic systems, but little is known about what drives their local distribution patterns. We investigated potential mechanisms underlying the patchy local distribution of the devil crayfish (
10.1899/12-203.1|Nonnative crayfish have been widely introduced and are a major threat to freshwater biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. Despite documentation of the ecological effects of nonnative crayfish from >3 decades of case studies, no comprehensive synthesis has been done to test quantitatively for their general or species-specific effects on recipient ecosystems. We provide the first global meta-analysis of the ecological effects of nonnative crayfish under experimental settings to compare effects among species and across levels of ecological organization. Our meta-analysis revealed strong, but variable, negative ecological impacts of nonnative crayfish with strikingly consistent effects among introduced species. In experimental settings, nonnative crayfish generally affect all levels of freshwater food webs. Nonnative crayfish reduce the abundance of basal resources like aquatic macrophytes, prey on invertebrates like snails and mayflies, and reduce abundances and growth of amphibians and fish, but they do not consistently increase algal biomass. Nonnative crayfish tend to have larger positive effects on growth of algae and larger negative effects on invertebrates and fish than native crayfish, but effect sizes vary considerably. Our study supports the assessment of crayfish as strong interactors in food webs that have significant effects across native taxa via polytrophic, generalist feeding habits. Nonnative crayfish species identity may be less important than extrinsic attributes of the recipient ecosystems in determining effects of nonnative crayfish. We identify some understudied and emerging nonnative crayfish that should be studied further and suggest expanding research to encompass more comparisons of native vs nonnative crayfish and different geographic regions. The consistent and general negative effects of nonnative crayfish warrant efforts to discourage their introduction beyond native ranges.
10.1086/683255|Microbial decomposers and metazoan detritivores rely on and affect processing rates of detrital C in streams. Nutrient enrichment can affect the biomass of both groups, but we lack a quantitative understanding of how these groups affect breakdown rates of C under elevated nutrient conditions. We quantified the relative contribution of decomposers (fungi, bacteria) and detritivores (shredders) to breakdown rates in a reference vs a nutrient-enriched stream. We measured breakdown rates and litter-associated shredder, fungal, and bacterial biomass on
10.1086/674577|Local aggregations of unionoids (mussel beds) represent subpopulations constituting a riverine meta-population and are presumed to be linked by dispersal of parasitic mussel larvae (glochidia) on host fishes. We examined movement patterns of Masu Salmon (
10.1899/11-124.1|Trophic interactions can influence the flux of energy and nutrients between donor and recipient ecosystems, thereby altering recipient food webs and communities. We investigated the potential for anadromous alewife to influence filter-feeding insects in lake outflow streams by altering seston and zooplankton export from lakes to streams through size-selective consumption of zooplankton in lakes. We compared spring and summer zooplankton biomass and body size and seston concentration in 6 lakes and their respective outflow streams (3 with alewife access, 3 without alewife access) in Maine, USA. The contribution of seston particles 500-m and mean pelagic zooplankton size decreased from spring to summer in alewife lakes, but not in lakes without alewife. However, we found no seasonal change in zooplankton body size and seston 500-m in the outflow streams of alewife lakes. Furthermore, zooplankton biomass and seston concentration differed between lakes and streams, a result indicating the influence of additional factors on seston movement from lakes to streams. Last, we found no relationship between filter-feeder biomass or community structure and seston quantity, a result indicating that stream communities probably were not strongly regulated by seston availability. Our results illustrate that strong trophic interactions may not be propagated from lakes to streams and suggest the importance of boundaries in modulating the extent to which trophic interactions in one ecosystem can influence the flow of energy to adjacent ecosystems.
10.1086/683370|Droughts, fires, and floods are natural disturbances influencing aquatic ecosystems. If drought is accompanied by fires, and if fires are closely followed by floods, teasing apart their distinctive and potentially interactive responses can be difficult. We compared the responses of macroinvertebrate communities to fire via comparisons of streams in burned and unburned catchments in 3 fire-prone biomes that differ biogeographically and climatically (northwestern Mediterranean, southeastern Australia, and northwestern intermountain USA). The responses of macroinvertebrate communities in streams in burned catchments were similar in all biogeographic regions, but the magnitude of these responses varied. Fire combined with high seasonal stream flows, flooding, or drought was associated with reduced measures of taxonomic richness and increased abundance, especially of
10.1899/12-074.1|Riparian-zone vegetation can influence terrestrial and aquatic food webs through variation in the amount, timing, and nutritional content of leaf and other litter inputs. We investigated how riparian-forest community composition, understory density, and lateral slope shaped vertical and lateral litter inputs to 16 streams in the Oregon Coast Range. Riparian forests dominated by deciduous red alder delivered greater annual vertical litter inputs to streams (504gm
10.1899/11-038.1|We analyzed responses of chironomid (Diptera:Chironomidae) communities to environmental factors in 124 natural, moderately, and highly disturbed springs in the Italian Prealps and Alps to investigate environmental factors influencing species distribution in springs and to evaluate chironomids as bioindicators of spring water quality. Self-Organizing Map analysis found differences among spring types and effects of anthropogenic pressures. Natural or little-disturbed springs at high altitude with low temperature, low conductivity, and high current velocity differed from lowland springs, including highly disturbed ones, with low current velocity and higher temperature, conductivity, and nutrient concentrations. Cold stenothermal intolerant species were clustered in the 1
10.1899/12-202.1|Terrestrial sources of dissolved organic C (DOC) provide energy for stream microbial heterotrophs. Hydrologic conditions alter flow paths to the stream and influence terrestrial source quantity and quality. We used bioreactors to measure biodegradable DOC (BDOC) in water from soils, shallow wells, and spring seeps under baseflow conditions, overland flow during storms, and a stream during base flow and storm flow. Stream DOC concentrations ranged from 0.7 to 15.5mg C/L and total BDOC ranged from 0.1 to 8.7mg C/L. Under baseflow conditions, DOC was generally <2mg C/L and BDOC was <0.7mg C/L. BDOC made up 37.8% of DOC (8.2% labile and 29.6% semilabile constituents) and most DOC (62.2%) was recalcitrant. Storms increased DOC concentrations 6- to 12-fold and selectively mobilized BDOC increasing concentrations 8- to 27-fold. Labile and semilabile constituents increased 2-fold to 17.3% and 55.4%, respectively, so that storm flow DOC was largely biodegradable (73%). Terrestrial DOC concentrations declined from 2.15mg C/L in soil water to 1.78mg C/L in shallow wells to 1.26mg C/L in spring seeps, and labile BDOC concentrations declined from 0.1mg C/L in soil water to 0.04mg C/L in shallow wells but increased to 0.13mg C/L in spring seeps. Overland flow waters had elevated DOC (11.0mg C/L) and labile BDOC (1.7mg C/L) concentrations. Peak storm concentrations for 2 biological reactivity classes were coincident during 2 storms but divergent during another storm, suggesting temporal variation in hydrologic pathways. Our results demonstrate that storms deliver increased BDOC loads to a headwater stream and reveal the temporal variability of labile and semilabile BDOC constituents. Storms increase stream depth and velocity, resulting in increased uptake lengths for BDOC constituents, exporting them from the basin and probably providing a downstream subsidy.
10.1086/682571|Current legislation and ecological risk assessment fails to protect aquatic biodiversity at low levels of contaminants. We addressed 3 topics embedded in general stress ecology and evolutionary ecology that are relevant to arrive at a better evaluation of the risk of low contaminant levels in aquatic systems: 1) delayed effects of contaminants, 2) interactions between contaminants and biotic interactors, and 3) vulnerability to contaminants under global warming. We developed these topics by capitalizing on the key insights obtained using damselflies as model organisms. First, delayed contaminant effects on important fitness-related effects exist during the larval stage and after metamorphosis in the adult stage. Second, synergistic interactions of contaminants with bacteria and predation risk have been demonstrated, and we present advances in the mechanistic understanding of these synergisms with biotic interactors. Third, we illustrate the strength of assessing the effect of contaminants under global warming using a space-for-time substitution approach and the need to consider temperature extremes. These studies using damselflies as model organisms highlight the relevance of considering contaminant effects after the exposure period and in the presence of natural stressors, such as predation risk and higher temperatures. They further highlight the need for spatially explicit risk-assessment and conservation tools. These insights are relevant for most aquatic taxa. Indeed most aquatic taxa have a complex life cycle, are strongly affected by predation risk and by warming, and show latitudinal gradients. Better integration of these topics in ecological risk assessment will be a major challenge for both scientists and policy makers, but of crucial importance to preserve aquatic biodiversity.
10.1086/684076|The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and US Army Corps of Engineers have promulgated a definitional rule to clarify the scope of waters of the United States protected under the Clean Water Act (CWA). The Clean Water Rule, published in June 2015, defines 8 categories of waters for jurisdiction and expressly excludes certain features from jurisdiction, based on law, science, public input, and 40+ y of experience implementing the CWA. It also defines terms used in regulation including, for the first time, tributary, neighboring, and significant nexus. Much of the scientific basis for this rule is contained in a report titled Connectivity of Streams and Wetlands to Downstream Waters: A Review and Synthesis of the Scientific Evidence developed by EPAs Office of Research and Development to inform the rulemaking process. As a scientific review, the report does not consider or set forth legal standards for CWA jurisdiction. Rather, it summarizes current scientific understanding of the connections and functions by which small or temporary streams, nontidal wetlands, and other source waters, singly or in aggregate, exert a strong influence on the chemical, physical, or biological integrity of waters protected by the CWA. It is the result of a multiyear collaboration by scientists and nonscientists working across disciplinary and organizational boundaries to synthesize the best available science in response to evolving policy needs. Here I summarize the major conclusions from the report, the influence of science on policy decisions in the final rule, and some challenges of synthesizing, interpreting, reviewing, and communicating the large body of scientific evidence needed for development of this rule.
10.1899/12-084.1|Research on how N is retained and removed from stream networks has focused on microbial metabolic pathways, such as denitrification. An alternative pathway for N to escape streams is in the form of emerging aquatic insects, and unlike denitrification, previous studies suggest that this pathway may be stimulated by increased availability of P. We tested the hypothesis that the flux of N exported from streams through insect emergence increases relative to flux through denitrification with increasing levels of stream P. We measured emergence and denitrification rates at 7 lowland stream sites in Costa Rica that differ in dissolved P levels and substrate characteristics. Emergence N flux ranged from 2.0 to 16.3% of measured denitrification rates and was not related to any measured physical or chemical variables. Sediment redox conditions were the best predictor of denitrification rates. Our emergence results suggest that most invertebrate biomass production in these streams is consumed by in-stream predators, keeping this N in the stream ecosystem. Nevertheless, our findings indicate that in streams with low denitrification rates, emergence should be considered as an additional pathway of N removal from stream ecosystems.
10.1899/10-127.1|The structure (biomass, species or Operational Taxonomic Unit [OUT] composition) and function (photosynthetic performance) of autotrophic and heterotrophic biofilm communities were investigated along a chemical gradient created downstream of a small Fe spring (Llmena watershed, Girona, northeastern Spain). Diatom species composition, diatom abundance, and algal biomass (measured as basal fluorescence [Fo]) followed the chemical gradient. Site ordination scores based on the photosynthetic performance of biofilms (measured as effective quantum yield [Yeff] and photosynthesisirradiance curve parameters) and on bacterial densities and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) data (OTUs for Fungi and Bacteria) were not linearly related to the chemical gradient. The extreme chemical environment selected for low-productivity, stress-tolerant community characterized by low algal biomass, absence of cyanobacteria, and dominance of the diatom taxon
10.1086/682688|Species distribution models (SDMs) can be used to answer a variety of questions about Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies) distributions because locality data for species are readily available. We provide an overview of SDMs and review 30 studies that have used SDMs to examine factors governing odonate distributions in current and projected future scenarios. These studies had objectives that included predicting the potential geographical distribution of a species based on scattered records, quantifying hotspots for biodiversity and identifying reserve gaps, assessing species environmental requirements and limitations, quantifying dispersal abilities of species with different life histories, studying niche conservatism among sympatric species, modeling the effect of forecasted climate change on species distributions, and examining the efficacy of different modeling approaches. We point out limitations in the use of SDMs for these purposes, including effects of limited taxonomic coverage and limited spatial resolution at fine scales. We also highlight potential future areas where use of SDMs can advance our knowledge of odonateenvironment interactions.
10.1899/12-198.1|Astacoidean crayfishes serve as hosts to obligate ectosymbiotic annelids called branchiobdellidans. Branchiobdellidans can act either as mutualistic cleaners or as ectoparasites and can have strong effects on crayfish growth and survivorship. This potentially vital aspect of crayfish biology has gone largely unexplored until recently. We reviewed the current state of knowledge regarding this symbiosis and examined factors that contribute to variability in the effects of branchiobdellidans on crayfish. We show that branchiobdellidans affect crayfish in various ways depending on branchiobdellidan species, abundance, and ecological context. We also discuss evidence for regulatory controls that crayfish exert over their symbionts and symbionthost preferences. Last, we evaluate the utility and challenges of using the crayfishbranchiobdellidan association as a model system for ecological and evolutionary research and point to promising areas for future study. Further investigations of the complex interactions between crayfish and their ectosymbionts will greatly advance the field of crayfish biology and offer many exciting opportunities for the study of symbioses.
10.1086/682007|Harmful proliferations of the mat-forming cyanobacterium
10.1899/11-010.1|Knickpoints are dynamic geomorphic formations in the longitudinal stream profile that have long been a subject of interest for geomorphologists, but have been largely unstudied in stream ecology. We measured discharge, bed sediment, and macroinvertebrate communities around knickpoints in forested and urban catchments. Knickpoints introduced microscale heterogeneity in discharge. This heterogeneity may be important in providing refugia for benthic biota during low-flow conditions, depending on the condition of the bed sediment below the knickpoint, which was highly variable. In addition, knickpoints supported a unique filterer-dominated community of macroinvertebrates not found elsewhere in the stream reach. The knickpoint itself also may maintain a higher overall density of macroinvertebrates in comparison to other habitats in the stream reach, but this prediction was only weakly supported. Instead, the largest differences in macroinvertebrate community metrics were consistently between urban and forested knickpoints. Decreases in density, species richness, and diversity from forested to urban knickpoints greatly outweighed any longitudinal differences in the macroinvertebrate community within individual knickpoint sites. Thus, we conclude that knickpoints may serve as hotspots of biodiversity and provide substantial habitat heterogeneity over a small area, but the valley-scale influence of catchment land use far outweighs the effect of these microscale geomorphic features in influencing benthic communities.
10.1899/12-099.1|The highly endemic diversity of the Yun-Gui plateau lakes has decreased severely in recent decades. Protecting these native species is a challenge, in part because their biology and population ecology remain unexplored. We investigated 1 focal endangered gastropod species (
10.1899/11-104.1|We explored changes in trophic structure and species composition of freshwater nematodes in response to nutrient enrichment in microcosms for 16mo. Succession of functional groups differed significantly among the 5 nutrient treatments, which ranged from oligotrophic to polytrophic conditions, in the 2
10.1086/675726|Authors of several studies of the spatial distributions of microorganisms have shown strong geographical patterns and stressed the importance of considering the spatial component explicitly when studying assemblageenvironment relationships. The processes underlying the patterns are still under debate because it is difficult to separate the unique roles of dispersal limitation and mass effects from spatially structured variation in environment. We analyzed correlations between assemblage dissimilarity and geographical and environmental distances in a large French diatom database, subdivided into regions, years, and different water-quality levels, with multiple regression on distance matrices (MRM) and partial Mantel correlograms. Before we applied MRM, we identified the strongest environmental predictors with the BIO-ENV procedure, which selects the best predictors after testing correlations between distance matrices including every possible set of variables. Environmental control of assemblages was stronger than spatial factors in explaining assemblage patterns, but purely spatial patterns also were significant at the national scale and within some regions. When we averaged environmental and biological data over 3 y, environmental variables accounted for more variability in assemblage structure than relationships estimated with data from a single year. Assemblages in mountainous regions showed particularly strong spatial patterns, perhaps because dispersal barriers hinder the exchange of colonists across sites. The strong spatial structure in the diatom data leads us to encourage researchers to divide ecoregions into smaller areas, especially in mountainous landscapes, when studying assemblageenvironment relationships. We also recommend the use of averaged biological and environmental data when developing biotypologies of biotic assemblages for environmental assessment and conservation.
10.1086/678693|One common stoichiometric approach to predicting patterns of nutrient release (excretion + egestion) by animals in aquatic ecosystems is to base predictions on elemental mass-balance constrained by homeostatic maintenance. An easily measured resource composite (i.e., seston, epilithon, or leaf litter) often is used to represent ingested stoichiometry, but whether such a composite is a good indicator of food actually ingested is a relatively unexplored assumption. We examined the application of a stoichiometric model to the diets of 4 generalist stream invertebrates. We fed 3 trichopteran and 1 amphipod taxa rations consisting of cultured algae, stream epilithon, and several species of conditioned leaf litter. The rations ranged widely in CN from 10 to 69 (molar) and in CP from 165 to 3500. After a 2-d feeding period, we measured NH
10.1899/11-129.1|Little is known about the effects of waterbirds on benthic macroinvertebrates in nontidal habitats. We conducted 4 waterbird-exclusion experiments in a transformed marshland in Doana Natural Park (southwestern Spain) and compared benthic macroinvertebrates in 3  3-m control (no exclusion) and test plots from which Greater Flamingos
10.1899/11-050.1|The National Lakes Assessment (NLA) used relative and attributable risks to measure the apparent nationwide effects of excess N, reduced lakeshore habitat, and other stressors on planktonic assemblages in lakes. The risk measures, borrowed from human health research, use nontechnical language to compare the apparent effects of disparate lake stressors, thereby helping the public and policymakers identify stressors of greatest national concern. However, the investigators for the NLA and similar prior surveys of streams did not adjust their risk estimates of each stressor for possible confounding by other covarying stressors. As a result, the NLA point estimates overstate the risks of individual stressors and, thus, are unreliable for assessing their importance relative to that of closely related stressors. I used NLA data from 966 lakes to illustrate existing statistical methods of risk adjustment. Point estimates of adjusted relative risk for 7 stressor variables were 15 to 64% lower than unadjusted estimates. Adjusted attributable risks also were lower than unadjusted values, but for some stressors, they were very inconsistent across 3 adjustment methods. In addition, adjusted risk estimates used only part of the available data because each estimate was adjusted for many (6) covarying stressors. Closely related stressor variables (for example, N, P, and turbidity) can be combined into a bundle representing a broader type of stress (reduced water quality). For the NLA data, adjusted risk estimates for the stressor bundles (water quality and habitat) were more consistent across estimation methods and had lower relative uncertainty than estimates for their component stressors. In addition, closely related stressors with similar sources and modes of impact are more likely to be managed together rather than individually. For these reasons, I suggest evaluating stressor bundles in future aquatic surveys.
10.1899/11-178.1|Benthic algal nutrient bioassays traditionally have been done by measuring periphytic algal biomass that has grown on fertilized or unfertilized patches of habitat produced by nutrient-diffusing substrata (NDS). This method requires destruction of the accumulated periphyton communities and, thus, does not allow for convenient monitoring through time. Variable fluorescence methods of estimating algal biomass and photosynthetic activity have been used in aquatic environments, but generally not over different nutrient treatments and not for a substantial duration. We evaluated the use of a pulse amplitude modulated (PAM) fluorometer for measuring algal biomass and photosynthetic activity in conjunction with NDS over several weeks in a wetland under several nutrient-addition treatments. We were able to detect a significant fluorometric response as early as 1wk into the study with addition of both N and P. Wetland periphyton was co-limited by N and P. Dark-acclimated minimal fluorescence was highly correlated with chlorophyll
10.1086/675683|Nonperennial streams are often excluded from biomonitoring programs because of inadequate knowledge about their biological and hydrological characteristics and variability. The ability to apply bioassessment indices to nonperennial streams would greatly expand the reach of biomonitoring programs. We sampled 12 nonperennial streams (3 of which were minimally stressed) in the San Diego hydrologic region multiple times to assess whether a benthic macroinvertebrate assessment index (the Southern California Index of Biotic Integrity [IBI]) developed for perennial streams could be used in nonperennial streams. We also sampled 3 minimally stressed perennial streams. Continuous water-level loggers and repeated site visits revealed that hydrologic regimes varied considerably among streams. Gradual drying was evident at some streams, and multiple drying/rewetting events were evident at others. Moreover, streams that were nonperennial in one year were perennial in another. IBI scores from low-stress nonperennial streams were similar to those for low-stress perennial streams, and false indications of impairment (i.e., low IBI scores) were never observed. Furthermore, IBI scores declined as stress increased, suggesting that the IBI responded as expected in nonperennial streams. IBI scores were stable at most sites within and between years, but midsummer declines were observed at high-stress sites. These declines were associated with declines in discharge, fast-water habitat, and increases in sands and fines and macroalgae cover. These findings suggest that an assessment tool developed for perennial streams can be used to assess condition at certain nonperennial streams, and that biomonitoring programs can provide more comprehensive watershed assessments by including nonperennial streams in their surveys.
10.1086/681723|Spawning anadromous fishes can enhance primary and secondary production in streams by providing marine-derived nutrients (MDN), but little is known of their effects on individual biofilm constituents (algae, fungi, and bacteria). To address this issue, we measured spatial and temporal changes in the abundance and composition of biofilm algae, fungi, and bacteria in 6 Atlantic rivers with contrasting influx of MDN. Each river had a natural barrier to anadromous fish migration, which established an upstream control and downstream treatment area, with Atlantic Salmon (
10.1899/12-183.1|We developed and evaluated a multimetric index of lake diatom condition (LDCI) based on surface-sediment samples for the National Lake Assessment (NLA) by the US Environmental Protection Agency. We selected final metrics in each of 5 categories for use in composite metrics of biological condition, which we combined in a hierarchical multimetric index. The final metrics selected for the LDCI had responses as predicted based on ecological principles, wide ranges, high signal-to-noise ratios, the ability to distinguish reference from disturbed lakes, and low intercorrelation. The final metrics were: Shannon diversity, taxon richness, % reference taxa, % tolerant taxa, % epiphytic individuals, % chain-forming individuals, % low-P taxa, % low-N taxa, % high-P taxa, % high-N taxa, %
10.1899/12-075.1|Currently available tools for studying plant litter decomposition and invertebrate consumption in aquatic ecosystems have at least 2 major limitations: 1) the difficulty of manipulating litter chemical composition to provide mechanistic insights into attributes of litter quality controlling decomposition rate, and 2) lack of a standardized litter that hampers comparisons of results among studies. These limitations point to a need for a standard litter surrogate with adjustable chemical composition. We propose using a decomposition and consumption tablet (DECOTAB) consisting of cellulose powder embedded in an agar matrix to evaluate decomposition and consumption rates in aquatic environments. We describe the preparation of DECOTABs and demonstrate some applications in laboratory microcosms and outdoor mesocosms. A leaf shredder, the isopod
10.1899/11-061.1|State water-quality professionals developing new biological assessment methods often have difficulty relating assessment results to narrative criteria in water-quality standards. An alternative to selecting index thresholds arbitrarily is to include the Biological Condition Gradient (BCG) in the development of the assessment method. The BCG describes tiers of biological community condition to help identify and communicate the position of a water body along a gradient of water quality ranging from natural to degraded. Although originally developed for fish and macroinvertebrate communities of streams and rivers, the BCG is easily adapted to other habitats and taxonomic groups. We developed a discriminant analysis model with stream algal data to predict attainment of tiered aquatic-life uses in Maines water-quality standards. We modified the BCG framework for Maine stream algae, related the BCG tiers to Maines tiered aquatic-life uses, and identified appropriate algal metrics for describing BCG tiers. Using a modified Delphi method, 5 aquatic biologists independently evaluated algal community metrics for 230 samples from streams and rivers across the state and assigned a BCG tier (16) and Maine water quality class (AA/A, B, C, nonattainment of any class) to each sample. We used minimally disturbed reference sites to approximate natural conditions (Tier 1). Biologist class assignments were unanimous for 53% of samples, and 42% of samples differed by 1 class. The biologists debated and developed consensus class assignments. A linear discriminant model built to replicate a priori class assignments correctly classified 95% of 150 samples in the model training set and 91% of 80 samples in the model validation set. Locally derived metrics based on BCG taxon tolerance groupings (e.g., sensitive, intermediate, tolerant) were more effective than were metrics developed in other regions. Adding the algal discriminant model to Maines existing macroinvertebrate discriminant model will broaden detection of biological impairment and further diagnose sources of impairment. The algal discriminant model is specific to Maine, but our approach of explicitly tying an assessment tool to tiered aquatic-life goals is widely transferrable to other regions, taxonomic groups, and waterbody types.
10.1086/675507|Many North American blackwater rivers exhibit low dissolved O
10.1899/12-058.1|Stream metabolism is used to characterize the allochthonous and autochthonous basis of stream foodweb production. The metabolic rates of respiration and gross primary production often are estimated from changes in dissolved O
10.1086/680984|Recent studies suggest that stream restoration at the reach scale may not increase stream biodiversity, raising concerns about the utility of this conservation practice. We examined whether reach-scale restoration in disturbed agricultural streams was associated with changes in macroinvertebrate community structure (total macroinvertebrate taxon richness, total macroinvertebrate density, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera [EPT] taxon richness, % abundance of EPT taxa) or secondary production (macroinvertebrate biomass over time). We collected macroinvertebrate samples over the course of 1 y from restored and unrestored reaches of 3 streams in southern Minnesota and used generalized least-square (GLS) models to assess whether measures of community structure were related to reach type, stream site, or sampling month. After accounting for effects of stream site and time, we found no significant difference in total taxon richness or % abundance of EPT taxa between restored and unrestored reaches. However, the number of EPT taxa and macroinvertebrate density were significantly higher in restored than in unrestored reaches. We compared secondary production estimates among study reaches based on 95
10.1086/675306|We used mitochondrial cytochrome
10.1086/683338|Management of aquatic resources in fire-prone areas requires understanding of fish species responses to wildfire and of the intermediate- and long-term consequences of these disturbances. We examined Rainbow Trout populations in 9 headwater streams 10 y after a major wildfire: 3 with no history of severe wildfire in the watershed (unburned), 3 in severely burned watersheds (burned), and 3 in severely burned watersheds subjected to immediate events that scoured the stream channel and eliminated streamside vegetation (burned and reorganized). Results of a previous study of this system suggested the primary lasting effects of this wildfire history on headwater stream habitat were differences in canopy cover and solar radiation, which led to higher summer stream temperatures. Nevertheless, trout were present throughout streams in burned watersheds. Older age classes were least abundant in streams draining watersheds with a burned and reorganized history, and individuals >1 y old were most abundant in streams draining watersheds with an unburned history. Burned history corresponded with fast growth, low lipid content, and early maturity of Rainbow Trout. We used an individual-based model of Rainbow Trout growth and demographic patterns to determine if temperature interactions with bioenergetics and competition among individuals could lead to observed phenotypic and ecological differences among populations in the absence of other plausible mechanisms. Modeling suggested that moderate warming associated with wildfire and channel disturbance history leads to faster individual growth, which exacerbates competition for limited food, leading to decreases in population densities. The inferred mechanisms from this modeling exercise suggest the transferability of ecological patterns to a variety of temperature-warming scenarios.
10.1086/676939|The boreal landscape is a mosaic of wetlands with distinct ecosystem properties. Algae are important for wetland functioning, but relatively little is known about the structure of algal communities among boreal wetlands. We documented spatial and temporal variability of algal community dynamics and productivity during a growing season in 6 wetlands (1 rich and 1 poor fen, 1 tussock, and 3 riverine marshes) in interior Alaska. Algal biomass and productivity were greater in the poor fen and a riverine marsh than in all other wetlands. Water depth and nutrients were significant predictors of benthic algal biomass and productivity among wetlands and were greatest immediately after the spring thaw and decreased during the growing season. Water depth and nutrients (N and P) explained the most variability in algal community structure. Algal community structure differed among wetlands, and temporal variation in environmental conditions was a significant predictor of the relative abundance of algal genera in individual wetlands. N
10.1899/11-171.1|Watershed development alters hydrology and delivers anthropogenic stressors to streams via pathways affected by impervious cover. We characterized relationships of diatom communities and metrics with upstream watershed % impervious cover (IC) and with riparian % forest and wetland cover in 120-m buffers along each side of upstream networks. Threshold Indicator Taxa ANalysis (TITAN) identified potential threshold responses of diatom communities at 0.6 and 2.9% IC. Boosted regression trees (BRTs) indicated potential thresholds between 0.7 and 4.5% IC at which relative abundances of low-nutrient diatoms decreased and those of high-nutrient, prostrate, and motile diatoms increased. These individual thresholds indicated that multiple stressors or magnitudes of stressors related to increasing watershed % IC differentially affected relative abundances of taxa, and these differential effects probably contributed to a more gradual, but still substantial, change in overall community structure. BRTs showed that near-stream buffers with >65% and ideally >80% forest and wetland cover were associated with a 13 to 34% reduction in the effects of watershed % IC on diatom metrics and community structure and with a 61 to 68% reduction in the effects of watershed % pasture on motile and high-P diatom relative abundances. Watershed % IC and riparian % forest and wetland cover probably affect hydrologic, nutrient, and sediment regimes, which then affect diatom community physiognomy and taxa sensitive to nutrients and conductivity. Our results emphasize the importance of implementing mindful development and protective measures, especially in watersheds near watershed % IC thresholds. Effects of development potentially could be reduced by restoring and conserving near-stream forests and wetlands, but management and restoration strategies that extend beyond near-stream buffers are needed.
10.1899/11-163.1|Current speed could affect algal responses to river eutrophication and flow regulation via its influence on nutrient availability to benthic algae. In laboratory experiments, the thickness of the diffusive boundary layer decreases with increasing current speed, enhancing rates of nutrient mass transfer by molecular diffusion across the layer to the algal cell wall. In rivers and streams, this phenomenon may be masked by grazing and physical losses. We used a 10-wk field experiment to test the hypothesis that the response of benthic algae to nutrient addition was a function of current speed. We deployed clay pavers at the beginning of a 3-mo period of baseflow in the Daly River (tropical Australia) at 5 sites (current speeds <298cm/s). After a 5-wk colonization period, we added nutrients to treatment sites via slow-release fertilizer pellets. After 5wk, we measured chlorophyll
10.1899/12-064.1|Native species in lakes commonly are affected by cultural eutrophication and introductions of nonnative species. The effects of these disturbances on benthic communities in large lakes have been understudied, despite the integral role that benthos play in maintaining habitat complexity and ecosystem processes. Lake Tahoe has experienced progressive eutrophication and introductions of nonnative species over the past several decades, but how its unique benthic communities have been affected is unclear. The density of Lake Tahoes benthic fauna was compared between 1960s surveys and our recent (20082009) survey, and the association of zoobenthos with macrophytes was examined for contemporary and historical samples. The density of benthic invertebrates and the occurrence of macrophytes in benthic samples have declined dramatically since collections made in the 1960s. Lakewide densities of benthic invertebrate taxa endemic to Lake Tahoe have declined by 80 to 100%, and the community structure of benthic invertebrate assemblages has changed considerably. Several native benthic invertebrate taxa were closely associated with deepwater macrophytes in the 1960s, but contemporary invertebrate association with macrophytes could not be evaluated reliably because of the scarcity of macrophytes in contemporary samples. Declines in native benthic invertebrate density could be related to the loss of habitat and food resources previously provided by abundant deepwater macrophyte assemblages. In addition, establishment and increases in density of nonnative species that occurred after the benthic surveys of the 1960s probably have affected native benthic invertebrate communities. The observed declines in Lake Tahoes native benthic invertebrate and macrophyte communities suggest that they are severely threatened.
10.1086/677900|Large impoundments remove substantial amounts of sediment and nutrients from rivers and often limit production by downstream primary producers and secondary consumers. Nutrient levels and macroinvertebrate and fish abundance in the lower Kootenai River (7
10.1899/12-214.1|The periphyton of stony hard substrates in the littoral zone of lakes is inhabited by an abundant and diverse algae and meiofauna assemblage that is regulated by grazing. The objective of our study was to examine the effect of macroinvertebrate grazers on periphytic algae and meiofaunal organisms at different depths in the littoral zone of Lake Erken (Sweden). To this end, a 2-factorial field experiment was carried out in which macrofaunal access to the periphyton was manipulated at 3 different water depths (30, 70, and 200cm). Grazing effects on algal biomass varied among depths and were highest in both deeper zones. Compared to algal biomass, the abundance of meiofaunal organisms was less affected by grazing because macrograzers significantly reduced meiofauna only at the 200-cm depth. The organism mainly responsible for the depth-dependent differences in grazer effects was the snail
10.1899/11-157.1|Variation in N stable isotope (
10.1086/679747|Ecological theory emphasizes headwater streams and wetlands as hotspots for metabolism of terrestrially derived organic matter and biogeochemical transformations. Growing evidence indicates that freshwater ecosystems may be as important as terrestrial and marine environments in the annual flux of CO
10.1899/12-009.1|Temperature is a primary driver of the structure and function of stream ecosystems. However, the lack of stream temperature (ST) data for the vast majority of streams and rivers severely compromises our ability to describe patterns of thermal variation among streams, test hypotheses regarding the effects of temperature on macroecological patterns, and assess the effects of altered STs on ecological resources. Our goal was to develop empirical models that could: 1) quantify the effects of stream and watershed alteration (SWA) on STs, and 2) accurately and precisely predict natural (i.e., reference condition) STs in conterminous USA streams and rivers. We modeled 3 ecologically important elements of the thermal regime: mean summer, mean winter, and mean annual ST. To build reference-condition models (RCMs), we used daily mean ST data obtained from several thousand US Geological Survey temperature sites distributed across the conterminous USA and iteratively modeled ST with Random Forests to identify sites in reference condition. We first created a set of dirty models (DMs) that related STs to both natural factors (e.g., climate, watershed area, topography) and measures of SWA, i.e., reservoirs, urbanization, and agriculture. The 3 models performed well (
10.1899/11-033.1|The concept of nutrient spiraling combines the geological, hydrological, and biological processes that influence nutrient cycling in streams. Spiraling studies have demonstrated connections between metabolic and nutrient cycles, organic matter (OM) dynamics, and hydrologic controls. Most spiraling studies have addressed the dynamics of a single element. However, nutrients do not move through ecosystems in isolation. Recent models have used ecological stoichiometric theory to couple N and P cycles, but empirical data to support these conceptual frameworks are generally lacking. We investigated the relationship between N and P uptake and the extent to which OM stoichiometry was related to the relative uptake of N and P in a headwater stream across 2 seasons. In addition, we explored whether our results were consistent with theoretical predictions derived from ecological stoichiometry and consumerresource imbalances. We found that higher respiration led to higher NH
10.1899/13-003.1|Scenario analysis has the potential to improve management of aquatic systems throughout the Mountaintop RemovalValley Fill mining (MTRVF) region of central Appalachia. However, the extent to which surface mining interacts with other landuse stressors (i.e., cumulative effects) is unclear, and this limits our ability to predict the effects of new mines on physical, chemical, and biological conditions downstream. We tested for additive and interactive effects of landuse change (surface mining, deep mining, and residential development) on water quality (specific conductance and Se), habitat quality, and benthic macroinvertebrates via a uniquely designed watershed-scale assessment of the Coal River, West Virginia (USA). We derived equations for predicting in-stream response to landscape changes and predicted the outcome of a realistic future scenario involving development of 15 permitted mines. Elevated Se concentrations were directly correlated with incremental increases in surface-mining extent. Surface mining, deep mining, and residential development had additive effects on elevated specific conductance and reduced biological condition. We found evidence of a positive interactive effect (stressor antagonism) of deep mining and residential development on biological condition, presumably caused by stream-flow augmentation from deep mines. Landscape context influenced predicted impacts from construction of 15 new mines because of additive and interactive effects of landuse change. New surface mines increased the number of receiving streams exceeding chemical and biological criteria, but a greater proportion of receiving streams exceeded chemical and biological criteria at equivalent levels of new mine development when pre-existing stressors were present. When surface mining was the only stressor, 30 or 40% increases in surface mining caused 100% of streams to exceed chemical or biological standards, respectively, whereas in streams stressed by deep mining and residential development, 10% additional surface mining caused 100% of streams to exceed chemical and biological standards. Continued progress in this area will require a better understanding of how landuse change affects aquatic systems in the rest of the MTRVF mining region, where watershed-to-watershed variation in landuse patterns probably causes variability in ecological response.
10.1086/682000|Dissolved organic C (DOC) leached from leaf litter contributes to the C pool of stream ecosystems and affects C cycling in streams. We studied how differences in leaf-litter chemistry affect the optical properties and decomposition of DOC. We used 2 species of cottonwoods (
10.1086/684001|To further our understanding of the linkages among wildfire, streamflow pathways, and water chemistry, we used a network of water-quality sensors and streamflow gages to assess initial and long-term effects of wildfire along a river continuum. We assessed water quality of a 2
10.1899/11-160.1|We explored the resilience of the invasive New Zealand mudsnail
10.1899/11-018.1|We investigated the successional development of a benthic macrofaunal community in Kalmar Dmme, a man-made wetland in southeastern Sweden, over a 13-y period after construction (19972009). We assessed primary succession by monitoring changes in species composition, biological traits, and community structure. Predictable successional changes occurred, and the structure of the community was complex at the advanced phase. Three successional phases were observed, each with typifying species. At the advanced phase, dominant biological traits shifted to favor animals with longer life-cycle durations, aerial dispersal strategies, and certain feeding types (i.e., filter-feeders, fine sediment collectors, predators, and parasites). We selected the Coleoptera assemblage to represent the macroinvertebrate community in an evaluation of the extent to which man-made wetlands in different age classes (<3y and 10y) were similar to natural wetlands (>50y). No significant differences in Coleoptera assemblages were found between natural wetlands and man-made wetlands 10y. However, man-made wetlands 10y had significantly higher coleopteran species richness than natural and man-made wetlands <3y because of the convergence of pioneering species persisting from early successional stages with representative specialized taxa from natural wetlands. Our results suggest that 10y may be sufficient time for the macrofaunal communities of man-made wetlands to resemble those of natural wetlands.
10.1086/681093|Many forested headwater streams are heterotrophic ecosystems in which allochthonous inputs of plant litter are a major source of energy. Leaves of riparian vegetation entering the stream are broken down by a combination of biotic and abiotic processes and, in most temperate and boreal streams, provide food and habitat for dense populations of detritivorous invertebrates. However, tropical streams in different parts of the world show substantial variability in the number and diversity of leaf-shredding detritivores (hereafter detritivores). We used data obtained with standardized methods from multiple streams in Africa, the Americas, Asia, and Australia to test the hypothesis that this variability would lead to differences in the relative role of detritivores and microorganisms in the breakdown process. We also tested the hypotheses that variability in litter breakdown rates changes with litter type (native litter mixtures vs nonnative alder [
10.1899/11-079.1|Total benthic invertebrate biomass in shallow offshore waters (depths 1015m) increased 17-fold on average following the invasion of dreissenid mussels and implementation of P controls in Lake Simcoe, Ontario, despite a 50% overall decrease in total invertebrate density during the same time period. The increase in total invertebrate biomass at 10- and 15-m depths was primarily dreissenid biomass. Patterns of biomass with depth and dreissenid invasion for individual taxa were typically similar to those for density. Biomass of chironomid and nondreissenid bivalves declined at shallow (1015m) sites but increased at the deepest (2030m) sites, whereas biomass of oligochaetes declined at all sites. Density and biomass of Amphipoda, Isopoda, and Gastropoda increased at depths 10m, and these taxa were found more frequently in deeper sites after dreissenid invasion than before. Increased habitation of deeper sites by these taxa may be mediated by increased habitat complexity caused by deposition of dreissenid shells, nutrient enrichment of substrate occupied by dreissenids, and improvements in hypolimnetic dissolved O
10.1086/679459|The current and future direction of aquatic ecological research leans toward addressing questions that cover multiple scales and levels of complexity. Historically, the ability to do comparative aquatic research across large spatial and temporal scales has been impeded by a lack of comparable measurements, standard methods, and a well organized data management and retrieval system. The National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON) is the first continental-scale ecological observation system designed to collect and provide freely available data on the drivers and responses of ecological change. In this paper, we describe past and present attempts to work across multiple scales in aquatic ecology, and the potential use of NEON aquatics data and infrastructure by researchers to integrate and expand ecological research programs and address novel ecological questions.
10.1899/10-160.1|Multiple drivers of global environmental change are fundamentally altering essential basal resources, such as detritus. Metabolic processes in most aquatic ecosystems are supported by terrestrial detritus, which contributes to the production of organisms and the energetic stability of ecosystems. We suggest that conservation and management approaches to ecosystems along river networks must incorporate the organic-matter resources that support them. Understanding changes in the dynamics of detrital organic matter is particularly important because the quantity of this resource is decreasing and its qualities are being altered as a result of effects of current global changes. We summarize these effects in lotic ecosystems from reach- to network-scales and suggest future research questions aimed at adding quantitative rigor to our understanding of the interactions between dynamics of organic matter and ecological outcomes. This approach is a necessary next step to address large-scale changes in stream and river ecosystems that derive from fundamental alterations in detrital resources, which propagate through the foodweb base to higher-order consumers and emergent ecosystem properties.
10.1899/12-044.1|Population genetic studies of freshwater invertebrate taxa in New Zealand and South America are currently few despite the geologically and climatically dynamic histories of these regions. The focus of our study was a comparison of the influence on realized dispersal of 2 closely related nonbiting midges (Chironomidae) of population fragmentation on these separated austral land masses. We used a 734-base pair (bp) fragment of cytochrome
10.1899/12-081.1|One of the largest impediments to the conservation of freshwater mussels is the absence of host-fish data. Suitable hosts must be present in sufficient numbers and occur at the appropriate time for successful mussel recruitment. Habitat degradation and fragmentation caused by dams and other anthropogenic alterations may reduce host availability. Host data are lacking for the federally threatened Purple Bankclimber mussel (
10.1086/680986|Crangonyctid amphipods occupy temporary habitats across northeastern North America, but they are mostly known as permanent-water species.
10.1086/678492|Freshwater ecosystems are highly vulnerable to warming climates. However, macroecological studies of climate-change effects on aquatic biodiversity are rare because of a lack of standardized large-scale surveys, e.g., along large latitudinal gradients. Our goal was to assess the overall richness pattern and projected differences in present and future patterns of the stream insect orders Ephemeroptera (E), Plecoptera (P), Trichoptera (T), and combined EPT along an extensive latitudinal gradient across North America (30 to 70N). We applied Bioclimatic Envelope Models (BEMs) to project present-day and future climatically suitable areas for EPTs on a spatial resolution of 10 arc-min (20 km  20 km) across North America. To overcome issues related to spatially biased sampling, we assessed climatically suitable areas (CSAs) for each genus and modeled potential generic richness/grid cell, rather than assessing observed generic richness patterns directly. Projected present-day generic richness was greatest between 40 and 48N latitude, with peaks at 44, 45, and 47N for the E, P, and T orders, respectively. Our models projected that CSAs would shift an average 4.2 to 5.2, 4.4 to 5.3 and 3.4 to 4.1N latitude by 2080 for E, P, and T genera, respectively. Overall, the present-day projected generic EPT richness is highest in the warm and cool temperate zones and shows a unimodal richness pattern that is projected to shift northward under climate-change conditions. A similar northward shift of richness patterns might also apply to other aquatic insects with relatively narrow thermal sensitivity and terrestrial, winged adults, e.g., freshwater Diptera or many aquatic Coleoptera. This large-scale application of genus-by-genus models gives a first approximation of the likely consequences of climate-change effects on freshwater biota across North America.
10.1899/12-147.1|The fraction of gross primary production (GPP) that is immediately respired by autotrophs and their closely associated heterotrophs (
10.1086/675447|The European Unions Water Framework Directive (WFD) requires that all water bodies in Europe achieve good ecological status (GES) by 2015. We developed an ecological classification tool for UK lakes based on benthic diatoms, a key component of the biological-quality element
10.1086/679484|Climate change is projected to facilitate altitudinal range expansions of lowland taxa, creating novel species interactions. However, how range shifts will alter biotic interactions and community structure in alpine streams is not well understood. In the Pyrnes, climate-induced physicochemical habitat change is hypothesized to facilitate the colonization of high-altitude streams by
10.1899/11-055.1|Excessive nutrient inputs and grazers can influence biomass and elemental composition of primary producers in freshwater ecosystems. How interactions between nutrient enrichment and grazing fish alter benthic habitats through effects on periphyton autotrophy, biomass, and elemental composition has been studied rarely. We compared the effects of grazing by central stonerollers (
10.1899/12-150.1|Evaluators of aquatic systems often use benthic macroinvertebrates because they are central components in the food chain and useful for water-quality assessments and management decisions. More than 44 sampling devices are commonly used to collect benthic macroinvertebrates. Bitter Lake National Wildlife Refuge in New Mexico, USA, is a unique habitat with a complex of aquatic sinkholes. Morphometry, water chemistry, and biology differ vastly among sinkholes, creating challenges when deciding how to sample appropriately for benthic macroinvertebrates. We evaluated 5 sampling methods commonly used in lentic habitats: aquatic net (epibenthic sled), artificial substrate (HesterDendy multiplate [H-D] sampler), light trap, grab (Ponar grab), and suction sampler (pump sampler). We compared total number of taxa, % taxa detected, and total number of individuals collected among the 5 methods with a mixed-model incomplete block analysis of variance. The light trap caught the most taxa and yielded the highest % taxa detected. It also caught the most specimens. H-D samplers and Ponar grabs added taxa that were not commonly found in light traps, especially gastropods. We were unable to deploy the pump sampler and the epibenthic sled in all sinkholes, and they contributed little additional information. We recommend combined use of light traps, H-D samplers, and a Ponar grab to obtain a good representation of benthic invertebrates over a wide variety of environmental conditions in sinkholes and other lentic habitats. Together these methods detected 84 to 100% of taxa in each sinkhole.
10.1899/11-165.1|Little research has been conducted on the influence of microbial communities, sediment disturbances, and their interaction on the Vertical Water Flux (VWF) across a hydraulically complex streambed. Our study was aimed at the effects of microbial activity and shallow-sediment disturbance on VWF in sandbed flumes. We assessed the dynamics of VWF and the development of a microbial community during 30d (JuneJuly 2010) in 16 outdoor flumes with 2 types of bedform shape (level and ripple). We operated 8 flumes in constant darkness (no-light), and 8 in daylight to gain information on the relative significance of algae and heterotrophic microorganisms. We simulated a shallow-sediment disturbance after 21d and compared microbial activity and VWF before and after the disturbance. We measured organic matter content, abundance of organisms, microbial activity, precipitation of CaCO
10.1086/684015|Postfire disturbances, such as debris flows, may alter the recovery of stream ecosystems from wildfire. Furthermore, changes to productivity and the dynamics of nutrients and organic matter (OM) in tributaries may affect fluxes of materials and organisms to mainstem habitats. We investigated the consequences of watershed wildfire and debris flows for exports from tributaries to mainstem habitats in the South Fork Salmon River Basin of central Idaho, USA. We compared fluxes from 15 streams (
10.1899/12-190.1|Biological N
10.1086/682329|River-channel confluences create habitat heterogeneity by introducing multiple zones of hydraulic flow and increase macroinvertebrate densities and diversity via the input of coarse sediment, allochthonous detritus, and nutrients. Current understanding of confluence effects on stream community structure and function is based mostly on research conducted at medium-to-large tributary confluences where nutrient and detrital loads are typically high. Confluences of headwater streams and in streams without the input of these materials are understudied. In this study, we sampled macroinvertebrate communities and measured sediment and flow conditions upstream, within, and downstream of confluences. Our sampling included braided confluences, which lack allochthonous detritus and coarse sediment sources, and headwater-stream confluences. Braided confluences had lower macroinvertebrate densities and richness compared to up- and downstream reaches, whereas headwater-stream confluences had a negligible effect on confluence communities. Our results indicate that confluences are not always areas of increased species richness and density for macroinvertebrates. Rather, severe shear stress conditions created by confluence hydraulics can reduce benthic community density and richness relative to adjacent stream locations, especially when tributary inputs of allochthonous food sources to the confluence are low. In addition, we found that all confluences that we studied created small step changes in community composition. Thus, braided rivers may create new habitat patches every time a channel divides or joins, promoting habitat heterogeneity on a broader scale.
10.1086/678947|Reference Condition Approach (RCA) predictive models are used to assess a test site against reference sites probabilistically matched based on habitat. These models are the basis of several major national stream bioassessment programs in the UK, Australia, and Canada. In the usual approach to developing predictive models, discriminant function analysis (DFA) is used to assign a test site to a group of matched reference sites. These groups typically are established by classification of a macroinvertebrate assemblage and matched to the habitat attributes in a single-step DFA model. We examined an alternative to standard DFA in which a series of tiered models are used. This tiered method constructs a model for the 1
10.1086/681910|Multiple natural and anthropogenic stressors pose a serious threat to the health and diversity of biological communities. A growing body of research suggests that one consequence of these stressors has been a regional-scale loss of crayfish populations across south-central Ontario. The mechanisms contributing to the imperilment of crayfish probably include historical acidification and metal contamination, shoreline development and habitat loss, increased water temperature, declining [Ca] in lake water, and invasion by nonnative species (i.e., Smallmouth Bass and the rusty crayfish). Long-term monitoring data of crayfish populations in Algonquin Provincial Park (Ontario) have documented marked declines in
10.1899/12-188.1|River landscapes are increasingly viewed as a collection of nested geomorphic features, the hydrological effects of which juxtapose to create a mosaic of aquatic habitat conditions. We examined how the combined hydrological influences of stream reaches and gravel bars affect the composition of hyporheic invertebrate assemblages along the longitudinal and vertical dimensions of river landscapes. We worked in 12 braided-river valley segments of tributaries to the Rhne River, France. Valley segments were bounded downstream by geological knickpoints so that bedform-induced exchange flows beneath gravel bars and riffles were predictably embedded in exchange flows occurring at the valley-segment scale. In upstream reaches (UR) and downstream reaches (DR) of each valley segment, we collected invertebrates at the heads and tails of gravel bars in the hyporheic zone and at the upstream and downstream ends of riffles in surface channels adjacent to the bars. Patterns of vertical hydraulic gradient and specific conductance and the resulting spatial heterogeneity of temperature, dissolved O
10.1086/676118|Thousands of local watershed organizations and lake associations are actively involved in protection and management of freshwater systems throughout the USA. These nonprofit organizations may or may not have paid staff and rarely employ trained scientists or natural resource managers. Thus, they face challenges, including lack of access to technical assistance to support their lake and river assessment and management initiatives, and may struggle to convince decision makers of the validity of their efforts. Meanwhile, researchers and managers within academia and agencies are challenged by lack of access to long-term data sets, field sites, funding, and personnel, and sometimes struggle to demonstrate real-world application of research results and to build support for freshwater research and management programs. The Michigan Clean Water Corps (MiCorps) volunteer monitoring program is a partnership-based program involving state and regional organizations and local volunteers that has met the above challenges, resulted in expanded monitoring of lakes and streams in Michigan (USA), and led to synergistic outcomes, such as advancing freshwater science, building public support for research and management, and implementing science-based management and protection projects at the local level.
10.1086/678049|Rare species are difficult to study or conserve.
10.1086/684002|The question of the kinds of water bodies federal and state agencies may regulate under the federal Clean Water Act (CWA) has reached the US Supreme Court 3 times without clear resolution. The Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers (collectively, the agencies), based in part on a recent synthesis of science regarding the connectivity of surface waters (USEPA
10.1899/12-122.1|Few investigators have examined simultaneous bacterial and fungal responses to leaf-litter chemistry in fresh water. We tested the hypothesis that bacteria would be more abundant on labile litter with lower concentrations of defensive compounds, whereas fungi would be more abundant on recalcitrant litter. We used quantitative-polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) to measure the abundance of bacterial 16S and fungal 18S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) genes and found that these groups responded differently to leaf chemistry. Bacterial 16S rRNA genes were 4 more abundant on labile than on recalcitrant litter. In contrast, fungal 18S rRNA genes were 8 more abundant on recalcitrant than on labile litter. Peak bacterial gene abundances on day 6 were related to leaf-litter % bound condensed tannin (
10.1899/11-103.1|Displacement of riparian vegetation by exotic species is a global phenomenon with the potential to affect leaf breakdown rates by shredders. We predicted that exotic riparian vegetation would have a greater effect on leaf breakdown by temperate than by tropical shredders because temperate shredders usually feed on a limited range of generally palatable leaves, whereas tropical shredders are naturally exposed to a higher variety of leaves, many of them unpalatable. We tested 3 hypotheses with common shredder assemblages from tropical Queensland and temperate Tasmania (Australia): 1) tropical shredders are equally efficient at breaking down native and exotic vegetation, whereas temperate shredders are less efficient at breaking down exotic vegetation; 2) tropical shredders are more generalist in their leaf choices than temperate shredders; and 3) shredders are more generalist in their leaf choices among exotic than among native vegetation. Hypothesis 1 was not supported. Caddisflies (tropical or temperate) were able to consume both native and exotic leaves, whereas non-caddisfly shredders fed only on native leaves, a result suggesting that shredding capacity depends on the identity of the shredder species or their phylogenetic position rather than on their origin. Hypothesis 2 was supported. Tropical shredders fed on various leaf types, whereas most temperate shredders chose one leaf type and fed on it for the duration of the experiment. Hypothesis 3 was not supported. Specificity of shredder choices did not differ between native and exotic leaves, a result suggesting that shredding behavior is not flexible, regardless of the leaf litter available. Thus, invasive riparian plants may affect leaf breakdown by shredders, particularly in temperate streams, but effects may vary depending on assemblage composition, the nature and timing of litterfall, and interactions with climate.
10.1899/12-017.1|Temporary rivers are shifting mosaics of aquatic and terrestrial habitat driven by hydrologic variability. Advancing wetted fronts (AWFs) that rewet dry river beds are unpredictable events, and knowledge about their composition and role in habitat mosaics is scarce. We collected dead and living terrestrial invertebrates, aquatic invertebrates, and sestonic matter (i.e., suspended sediments and organic matter) entrained by flow in an AWF travelling downstream over a 7-km-long dry reach. We collected samples at 12 sites along the rewetting reach and at 3 sites in the upstream perennial reach of the Albarine River, France. Invertebrates in the AWF were mainly of terrestrial origin and organic matter was essentially coarse (>5mm). Terrestrial invertebrate density and taxonomic richness and sestonic matter concentration were several orders of magnitude higher in the AWF than in the perennial reach. However, only terrestrial invertebrate taxonomic richness increased longitudinally. At least  of terrestrial taxa could have survived submersion, and the density and taxonomic richness of these taxa decreased downstream. These results indicate that terrestrially derived material is stored downstream during rewetting where it could greatly stimulate in-stream aquatic productivity and succession in terrestrial invertebrates along the riparian zone. In contrast, entrained aquatic taxa represented 15% of the benthic taxa collected 1mo after rewetting, indicating a low contribution of AWFs to benthic invertebrate succession. In the context of global change and increasing appropriation of water resources by humans, our results suggest that conceptual models of invertebrate dynamic and organic matter processing in rivers should account for dry phases and transitional periods from dry to wet conditions.
10.1086/681303|We described invertebrate assemblage composition over a range of spatial and temporal scales in the Burdekin River, one of northern Australias large and variable dry-tropical river systems. Invertebrates were abundant but not diverse, and the assemblage structure exhibited considerable variability in space and time. Substratum and historical flow characteristics were important environmental factors influencing assemblage structure. The effect of substratum on invertebrate assemblage composition appears to be complex and operates over multiple spatial scales within the riverine habitat hierarchy. The fauna differed significantly among the major mesohabitat types (cobble, bedrock, and sand substrata), but divergent microhabitat-scale preferences of some taxa for finer or coarser sandy sediments demonstrated the importance of small-scale local factors in structuring invertebrate assemblages. The significant influence of antecedent hydrology coupled with pronounced spatial variation in site assemblage composition between qualitatively similar mesohabitats suggest that biomonitoring in variable, sand-bed rivers will benefit from standardization of sampling in relation to explicit flow and substratum characteristics to assess spatial and temporal changes in assemblages adequately.
10.1086/674578|Availability and quality of food resources limit consumer performance and modulate food webs, which in turn, can affect ecosystem functioning. Availability and quality of food resources can be especially important in streams, where consumers depend on allochthonous organic matter whose availability and quality can differ markedly both spatially and throughout the year. Most studies of the relationships between food quality and detritivore performance have been based on standardized food types and have not been designed to allow consideration of interactions between resource quantity and quality. Our goal was to evaluate the effects of quality and quantity of resource on shredder performance. We raised larvae of the caddisfly
10.1086/681820|Considerable uncertainty exists regarding the ability of reach-scale habitat restorations to promote ecological integrity and affect community composition in degraded streams and rivers and the time scales at which these effects take place. Restoration of habitats on the reach scale (hundreds of meters to a few kilometers) is expected to support threatened species because many of them are habitat specialists. In contrast, generalist species are predicted to be replaced in restored reaches. We used a large data set for 62 reach-scale restoration projects in 51 stream systems in Germany, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein and analyzed the changes in fish community composition induced by the restorations in terms of species richness, species turnover, Brillouin diversity index, total fish abundance, and proportion of alien and endangered species. We further analyzed the temporal dynamics of the fish community recovery over a period of 19 y postrestoration. Species richness and Brillouin diversity index increased in most of the restoration projects (66 and 57%, respectively), but recovery to historical reference conditions was not achieved. Total abundance was enhanced by most of the projects. Species composition in restored reaches underwent directed shifts for at least 10 y, with high and variable species turnover in the first years that decreased over time. The effects of restoration on Brillouin diversity index were highly variable in the first few years after restoration, but tended to increase over time. These dynamics must be considered more carefully in future protocols for evaluating restoration results, and final evaluation of restoration outcomes on fish communities should not be made too early. Our results indicate that reach-scale habitat restorations may be a suitable tool for increasing local fish abundance and slightly enhancing species diversity. However, more targeted approaches are needed to support threatened species and repress alien species.
10.1899/12-062.1|In summer, streams in Portuguese eucalyptus forests frequently experience drought resulting in isolated pools, frequently saturated with leaf litter, in which the leaf leachates may generate toxic and hypoxic conditions. We assessed the ecological effects of
10.1086/679739|Geothermally modified ground water (GMG) in tectonically active areas can be an important source of stream nutrients, and the relative importance of GMG inflows is likely to change with shifts in precipitation that are predicted to occur in response to climate change. However, few studies have quantified the influence of GMG inflows on export of biologically important solutes from watersheds across years differing in precipitation. We quantified N, soluble reactive P (SRP), and dissolved organic C (DOC) export during a year with high precipitation (6550 mm rain) and a year with average precipitation (4033 mm rain) in 2 gauged tropical streams at La Selva Biological Station in lowland Costa Rica. One stream receives extensive inputs of regional GMG, whereas the other is fed entirely by local runoff. In the stream fed only by local runoff, a 62% increase in precipitation from the dry year to the wet year led to a 68% increase in stream discharge, a 67% increase in export of SRP, DOC, dissolved organic N (DON), and NH
10.1899/11-035.1|The Crown Forest Sustainability Act stipulates that Ontarios public forests be managed to conserve biological diversity and long-term health by following an emulation of natural disturbance (END) paradigm. Upland forests have been managed following an evolving END approach since the mid-1990s, but operations have been largely excluded from riparian forests. The new Forest Management Guide for Conserving Biodiversity at the Stand and Site Scales attempted to integrate the protection of fish habitat and water quality with the desire to emulate natural disturbance patterns in riparian forests to create a diversity of habitats to support a broad range of riparian plants and animals. Where wildfire is the dominant agent of disturbance, it encourages thoughtfully planned and carefully implemented clearcutting within riparian forest. We provide some examples of how science-based knowledge was used to develop direction to achieve these objectives.
10.1899/13-002.1|Salamanders are abundant consumers in many temperate streams and may be important recyclers of biologically essential nutrients, but their ecological role is poorly understood. The ecological significance of nutrient recycling by salamanders may vary spatially and seasonally because of their potentially patchy distribution in streams and the dynamic nature of stream hydrology and other nutrient fluxes. We examined the spatial and seasonal variation of salamander-driven nutrient recycling in 3 headwater streams in the southern Appalachian Mountains. We quantified the aggregate areal excretion rates of N (NH
10.1086/676674|Hydroperiod strongly influences the breeding period and development time of many amphibians, and larvae of various species display developmental plasticity in response to habitat drying. Hydrologic alterations associated with anthropogenic activities potentially can influence hostparasite interactions in humans and wildlife, but few investigators have examined this possibility. Pathogens can delay amphibian development, so infections could constrain the ability of parasitized larvae to respond to a shortened hydroperiod under drying conditions. We examined the individual and joint effects of hydroperiod and infection with a pathogenic trematode parasite (
10.1086/676117|Assessment of ecological integrity is the basis for sustainable management of the ecosystem services lakes provide. Periphyton is used in stream assessment, but lake assessment is based mostly on water-column variables. We addressed the use of periphyton to assess lakes, how factors influence responses of periphyton metrics, and whether periphyton provides unique information for determining biological condition and identifying risks. Much effort directed at using periphyton for assessment has focused on linear relationships between taxonomic metrics and single stressors. These relationships can be good proxies for water chemistry, but do not always represent biological conditions. Community diversity is difficult to relate to stressors because low values may result from natural conditions (grazing, disturbance). Quantile regression, River Invertebrate Prediction and Classification System (RIVPACS)-type models, and taxonomic distinctiveness may provide more precise indicators. Periphyton biomass and productivity are linked closely to trophic status but are rarely used in assessment. Responses of these variables over a trophic gradient are often nonlinear, and surrogate metrics that use quantile regression or weighted-averaging calibration/regression based on community composition may overcome this problem for assessment. Measures, such as alkaline phosphatase activity, number of N-fixing taxa, and periphyton nutrient stoichiometry can be used to assess littoral-zone ecosystem function and to help establish causative effects of stressors. The value added by periphyton-based assessment is that it provides higher-level understanding of the ecological status of the littoral zone. Assessment must be rooted in a strong understanding of the science and must provide guidance and cost-effective options for lake managers. We outline a hierarchy for periphyton assessment methods that assess risk at different levels of effort and precision.
10.1899/11-107.1|Positive correlations between diversity and stability have been reported for a number of ecosystems and are thought to be caused by a stabilizing effect of differential species responses to environmental perturbation. Empirical field studies in which investigators tested for diversitystability relationships are lacking for some taxonomic groups and typically have not included tests of the importance of other potential correlates of diversity or assemblage structure. We sampled stream fish assemblages and associated habitat variables at 36 sites over a 10-y period. Quantitative and qualitative measures of stability were correlated with fish diversity at sites. Fish assemblage composition was correlated with a variety of habitat variables, and diversity was correlated with stream size. We used Akaikes Information Criterion to select the models that best predicted qualitative and quantitative stability. Candidate models contained variables describing diversity, stream size, time between samples, and change in habitat variables over time. Models that included diversity and time between samples were the best predictors of stability. Our results support the existence of diversitystability relationships, and we showed that other predictors of diversity or habitat change were generally poor predictors of stability.
10.1899/12-186.1|We used field-derived data from streams in Nevada, USA, to quantify relationships between stream biological condition, in-stream stressors, and potential sources of stress (land use). We used 2 freshwater macroinvertebrate-based indices to measure biological condition: a multimetric index (MMI) and an observed to expected (O/E) index of taxonomic completeness. We considered 4 categories of potential stressors: dissolved metals, total dissolved solids, nutrients, and flow alteration. For physicochemical factors that varied predictably across natural environmental gradients, we quantified potential stress as the site-specific difference between observed (O) and expected (E) levels of each factor (OE
10.1899/12-124.1|Predation effects in streams can cascade to terrestrial food webs through the flux of organisms that develop in the stream and emerge as adults to the terrestrial system. This emergence subsidizes some terrestrial predators, an effect that generally varies based on the magnitude of the subsidy. Factors regulating this magnitude are relatively well known, but factors regulating the trophic structure of the subsidy are not. I tested the hypothesis that predatory fish in natural stream pools alter the biomass and trophic structure (proportion of predatory adults) of emerging aquatic insects. I created a 13 gradient of predatory fish biomass (4 species of
10.1899/12-026.1|We used an integrative-taxonomy approach to help resolve taxonomic issues within the genus
10.1086/675243|Natural distributions of most freshwater taxa are restricted geographically, a pattern that reflects dispersal limitation.
10.1086/675500|Predators can induce a suite of evolutionary responses, such as changes in behavior, life-history traits or morphology, from their prey. Our work adds to the growing number of studies of kairomone-mediated aquatic predatorprey interactions that significantly affect prey morphology. Individuals of the amphidromous shrimp
10.1899/12-163.1|We investigated how the source and composition of stream dissolved organic matter (DOM) influenced rates of benthic bacterial C production (BCP) in 20 forested, headwater streams in southern Tasmania. We also assessed whether the source and composition of stream DOM was influenced by clearfell forest harvesting (119y after harvest). Stream DOM was dominated by humic- and fulvic-like fluorescence (86.395.5%) as measured by parallel factor (PARAFAC) analysis of DOM fluorescence. Several reach-scale environmental variables showed significant positive (leaf-area index, sediment total N, organic C) or negative (stream temperature) linear relationships with BCP. However, an increasing contribution of terrestrial DOM, as measured by a decreasing fluorescence index (FI), was the strongest variable driving in situ benthic BCP (
10.1086/680682|C cycling and dissolved organic C (DOC) inputs to boreal aquatic systems probably will change substantially with climate change. DOC concentrations already are increasing in surface waters. Terrestrial C is a major source of C to boreal freshwater ecosystems, but the interface between these 2 ecosystems, the riparian zone, has not been studied often. To improve our understanding of the importance of terrestrial inputs of DOC to aquatic systems from surrounding forests, we followed the changes of DOC concentration along a continuum of precipitation, throughfall, soil water, ground water, lake, and brook water in a pristine, boreal, forested headwater catchment and developed a lake C balance based on terrestrial and lacustrine C fluxes. We also examined DOC quality changes using the ratio of absorbance at 465 and 665 nm (E
10.1899/10-174.1|We evaluated macroinvertebrate-based metrics from HesterDendy samplers (HDs) that were either new or previously deployed (HS status) and were processed with either picking or scraping methods. The metrics assessed included the total number of individuals, the number of intolerant individuals, the total number of families, and the number of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera (EPT) individuals. No significant differences in mean number of individuals, intolerant individuals, and total families were detected between processing techniques or HD status (all
10.1899/12-023.1|The widespread distributions of aquatic species often contrast with their limited ability to disperse by their own propulsion among wetlands isolated by land. Studies of the potential role of water birds as dispersal vectors have been focused mainly on internal transport (endozoochory). However, many anecdotal observations that small species adhere to flying birds also exist (ectozoochory). We addressed the hypothesis that ectozoochory may contribute to the widespread distributions of aquatic snails (Gastropoda) in several experiments. We tested the likelihood that snails would attach to mallards (
10.1086/684094|Habitat fragmentation and degradation and invasion of nonnative species have restricted the distribution of native trout. Many trout populations are limited to headwater streams where negative effects of predicted climate change, including reduced stream flow and increased risk of catastrophic fires, may further jeopardize their persistence. Headwater streams in steep terrain are especially susceptible to disturbance associated with postfire debris flows, which have led to local extirpation of trout populations in some systems. We conducted a reach-scale spatial analysis of debris-flow risk among 11 high-elevation watersheds of the Colorado Rocky Mountains occupied by isolated populations of Colorado River Cutthroat Trout (
10.1899/11-016.1|We used dual-isotope mixing models (
10.1899/11-092.1|Creation of spring typologies for different regions is essential for evaluating spring degradation and for restoration of headwaters. We present a regional spring typology for the German federal state Schleswig-Holstein in the Northern European Lowlands. We used a standardized physicochemical and hydromorphological protocol to map 174 near-natural springs distributed area-wide. Principal component analysis distinguished types of springs (rheocrenes, helocrenes, limnocrenes, and an intermediate type, rheohelocrenes) on the basis of water chemistry and substratum composition. The spatial distribution of the types corresponded with the regional fluvioglacial landscapes of Schleswig-Holstein (hill country, Baltic Sea margin, the high Geest, and the low Geest). The most important discriminating factors were related to water hardness and conductivity. We sampled macroinvertebrates in 60 springs (twice in 40, once in 20) selected based on type and distribution among fluvioglacial landscapes. We detected 121 taxa, most of them Hydrachnidia (25 species), Trichoptera (19), Coleoptera (19), and Gastropoda (12). Many of the species are considered rare for Schleswig-Holstein (regional red-list species). Forty-two species were restricted mainly to springs (crenobiont or crenophilous species). Average taxon richness was similar for helocrenes (23 species), rheohelocrenes (22), and rheocrenes (25), but markedly lower for limnocrenes (11). Species composition differed between rheocrenes and helocrenes and between limnocrenes and all other spring types. Faunal distinctness of rheohelocrenes was less pronounced. We were able to produce a validated spring typology founded on substratum composition, physicochemical factors, and taxon composition. This typology can serve as a guide for restoration of severely degraded springs and headwaters in Schleswig-Holstein and in similar areas of Central Europe.
10.1899/11-149.1|Freshwater mussels (Unionidae) are among the most endangered groups of organisms in the world, and their conservation and recovery are priorities throughout North America, especially the southeastern USA. We used a ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNA-seq)-based approach to develop molecular resources for
10.1899/12-004.1|Changes to nutrient loads may affect the stoichiometry of urban or suburban stream food webs. We quantified foodweb stoichiometry in 9 detritus-based headwater streams draining forested or suburban watersheds in northeastern, coastal Massachusetts (USA). We measured C, N, and P content (%C, %N, %P) and relative ratios (CNP) of basal food resources and macroinvertebrate consumers in each stream. Greater dissolved nutrient concentrations in suburban streams did not cause significant changes in overall elemental content (%C, %N, %P) of basal food resources, but their NP ratios decreased in high-nutrient streams, indicating that higher nutrients do affect food quality. The nutrient content of most macroinvertebrate taxa consuming these altered food resources was unaffected by suburban nutrient enrichment. However, some taxa deviated from strict homeostasis. Samples of these stoichiometrically variable taxa from the most enriched suburban streams had variable %N, a result suggesting that shifts in %P may not be the only means by which body stoichiometry is altered by nutrient enrichment. Moreover, many of the taxa with nutrient contents that differed across stream groups are typically more abundant in suburban than in forested streams, a result suggesting a potential link between consumerresource stoichiometry and the tolerance of certain taxa for nutrient enrichment. Overall, our results are consistent with those of other studies on ecosystem properties or functions in urban streams in which the complex nature of urban effects does not always yield general patterns seen in less-affected systems.
10.1899/11-147.1|The Platte River caddisfly (
10.1086/675076|Most population genetic studies in streams infer long-term patterns of gene flow by calculating fixation indices (e.g.,
10.1086/682174|The academic study of dragonflies and damselflies (odonatology) is well established, but relatively limited attention has been given to odonates in the context of applied ecology and conservation science. We used the Web of Science and Odonatological Abstract Service (ISSN 1438-0269) to capture trends in primary literature, characterize study features (habitats, life stages, etc.), identify research themes, and suggest future directions for odonatology in freshwater applied ecology and conservation science. We found no papers in this area prior to 1980, and 411 papers from 1980 through 2013. Nearly 75% of these papers were recent (since 2005) and >40% were very recent (since 2010). We identified several broad and overlapping research themes: 1) model taxa, 2) tools and indicators, 3) odonate-centered work, and 4) methodological issues and improvements (field sampling, data modeling/simulation, conservation/landscape-scale genetics). We found more reliance on field-based observational approaches than experiments and model-driven exercises, although the number of papers using model-driven exercises is rapidly increasing. We found a strong focus on adult stages, odonate assemblages, the Odonata as a whole, and studies of particular species. We identified research priorities in areas such as ecological valuation and management, monitoring and assessment, climate change and landscape planning, concordance with other taxa, effects of urbanization, data modeling/simulation, and rare-species ecology and conservation. To help establish an identity and facilitate communication, we suggest naming this diverse realm applied odonatology. We think applied odonatology has a good future for a range of topics from conservation genetics and population ecology to assessments of anthropogenic impacts and the conservation of biodiversity.
10.1086/678483|Biogeochemical studies done to elucidate sedimentwater transfer of solutes and benthic reaction rates in limnic and marine ecosystems often rely on the study of porewater distribution and temporal dynamics of target solutes and subsequent diagenetic modeling. Hydrophilic poly-ether-sulfone (PES) membranes are used increasingly often to sample soil and sediment porewater because they are versatile and easily adapted to field studies in benthic biogeochemistry. Nevertheless, possible interference with components of filtered water by membrane surface properties impedes accurate measurement of concentrations of solutes in filtrates. We identified and described NH
10.1086/680037|In streams and rivers, the benthic and hyporheic regions harbor the microbes that process many stream-borne constituents, including O
10.1086/679616|Mediterranean fluvial systems are subject to severe drought/rewetting cycles. These extreme periods modify the direction and magnitude of the water fluxes between the stream surface water and the riparian ground water, enabling exploration of the abrupt changes affecting dissolved organic matter (DOM). We investigated the variability in DOM concentration and composition over a drying and rewetting period in a streamriparian groundwater system. We analyzed dissolved organic C (DOC) and N (DON), and bioavailable DOC (BDOC) in whole water and 3 molecular-weight (MW) fractions (high [HMW]: >10 KDa, medium: 110 KDa, low [LMW]: <1 KDa) in surface water and riparian ground water. The quantitative differences in DOM between surface water and riparian ground water were minimal during the drying period, but were greater during the rewetting period because of notable flushing of DOC (>6 mg/L) and DON (>0.4 mg/L) in stream water. Asynchronous inputs of DOC and DON were detected in stream water during rewetting: an abrupt and brief increase (up to 32%) in DOC
10.1899/12-043.1|Nestedness measures the degree to which species assemblages are proper subsets of larger assemblages within a metacommunity. We analyzed nestedness in 20 freshwater data sets, each for a single metacommunity within a drainage basin. First, we examined the degree of nestedness across local assemblages and identified major environmental correlates of nestedness at sites. Second, we examined whether nestedness showed concordance among trophic levels. Third, we examined whether nested and idiosyncratic species (i.e., species that have unpredictable gaps in their distribution) differed ecologically and showed dissimilar distribution patterns along geographical and environmental gradients. Degrees of nestedness, obtained using a metric by
10.1086/674846|Lack of nonmicrosatellite nuclear markers that are informative at the intraspecific level has limited inferences about the phylogeography and phylogenetics of most aquatic insect taxa. Genomic resources are becoming available at an unprecedented rate and scale. Sequencing a single transcriptome (complementary deoxyribonucleic acid [cDNA] library corresponding to all messenger ribonucleic acid [mRNA] expressed at a single point in time) can generate tens of thousands of sets of overlapping DNA segments that together represent a consensus region of DNA (contigs) averaging >500 base pairs [bp] in length. A challenge posed by these large data sets is extraction of markers with population-level utility. We demonstrate proof-of-concept for using comparative transcriptomics to develop primers for multiple nuclear loci with population-level utility in
10.1086/679446|Understanding the effects of flow alteration on freshwater ecosystems is critical for predicting species responses and restoring appropriate flow regimes. We experimentally evaluated the effects of 3 dewatering rates on behavior of 6 freshwater mussel species in the context of water-removal rates observed in 21 Atlantic Coast rivers. Horizontal movement differed significantly among species and dewatering rates, but a significant species  dewatering interaction suggested that these factors influence movement in complex ways. Species differences in movement were evident only in controls and under slow dewatering rates, but these differences disappeared at moderate and fast dewatering rates. Burrowing behavior did not differ with respect to species identity or dewatering rate. The proportion of individuals that became stranded did not differ among species, but most individuals became stranded under low and moderate dewatering, and all individuals became stranded under fast dewatering. Mortality after stranding differed strongly among species along a gradient from 25% in
10.1086/681022|The Nurseryfish
10.1086/677540|The benthic foodweb structure of Lake Vrtsjrv, a large (270 km
10.1086/675782|The Detroit River is an international water body that has several fish consumption advisories for contaminants that affect human health and economic revenue for the USA and Canada. Despite the importance of these advisories, little progress has been made in developing effective management strategies or coordinating monitoring, research, and policy efforts between the 2 nations. We engaged 44 stakeholder organizations to increase community capacity on these issues for the Detroit River. We assessed capacity with key informant interviews and a network survey. Our analysis identified weak ties in information sharing and collaboration between countries. We used this information to improve stakeholder capacity, which included forming working groups that focused on system analysis, identification of priority issues, and definitions of organizational roles. Outcomes included outreach materials addressing environmental-justice issues and risk-analysis models of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) body burdens in fish. Our assessment of workshop participants with a longitudinal survey indicated that we increased network capacity and issue awareness in our stakeholders by providing new ways for them to work together. The engagement of stakeholders also improved research outcomes. By identifying stakeholder concerns related to scientific questions about consumption advisories early in the process, researchers were able to direct their efforts to generating translational research that better addressed stakeholder needs.
10.1086/682567|Genetic studies are recognized increasingly as important for understanding naturally occurring disease dynamics and are used to predict host genetic diversity and coevolutionary processes and to identify species composition in ecological communities.
10.1899/12-178.1|Zoological remains were examined from the sediments of the Pingualuit Crater Lake, Nunavik, Canada. Our objective was to describe past climate events in the area of delayed deglaciation in northernmost Ungava Peninsula. Our record covers 3 separate sections of deglacial and postglacial invertebrate dynamics interrupted by laminated proglacial sediments and a basin-scale erosive slumping event. The abundance of animal remains in the ultra-oligotrophic and extremely deep arctic lake was low, but distinct faunal assemblages were found among the intervals, results implying that they were environmentally heterogeneous. The lowermost fine-grained interval (before 6850 calibrated years before present [cal BP]), revealed that Cladocera
10.1899/11-133.1|One of the primary goals of biological assessment is to assess whether contaminants or other stressors limit the ecological potential of running waters. It is important to interpret responses to contaminants relative to other environmental factors, but necessity or convenience limit quantification of all factors that influence ecological potential. In these situations, the concept of limiting factors is useful for data interpretation. We used quantile regression to measure risks to aquatic life exposed to metals by including all regression quantiles (
10.1899/11-095.1|Headwater streams draining row-crop agriculture receive allochthonous inputs of maize detritus and grasses, but organic matter (OM) processing is not well studied in agricultural streams. Agricultural streams in the midwestern USA have incised, trapezoidal channels that retain less particulate OM than forested streams. The 2-stage ditch is a restoration strategy in which small floodplains are constructed and connected to stream channels to increase channel stability and decrease erosion. Microbial decomposition may be higher on restored floodplains because water residence times are longer than on the steep banks of trapezoidal streams. We examined decomposition of maize leaves (
10.1086/681639|We experimentally assessed the interaction between a globally invasive snail (
10.1086/681948|Eastern Mosquitofish (
10.1899/11-111.1|Springs are unique aquatic habitats that contribute significantly to local and regional biodiversity because of their high habitat complexity and the large number of different spring types. Many springs are small, but they are numerous and often of high water quality, and thus, provide habitats for species that are rare elsewhere because of their sensitivity to anthropogenic impacts (least-impaired habitat relicts). Springs are often species-rich and contain a larger number of Red List taxa than other aquatic habitats. Hydrological factors, particularly flow permanence, water chemistry, and temperature are important ecological factors determining species distribution and community composition. Despite their importance for biodiversity and water quality, springs are much less studied than other aquatic ecosystems. They also are insufficiently covered by protective legislation, often resulting in the destruction of their natural habitat. The authors of papers in this special issue describe specific spring biota, including multitaxon studies, and discuss the role of environmental factors, habitat variability at different spatial and temporal scales, and the importance of natural and anthropogenic disturbance in spring habitats. They suggest directions for future research, including defining reference conditions for springs and their role in long-term ecological research, the development of quality-assessment methods, and their more sustainable use as freshwater resources.
10.1086/676957|Resource availability and quality determine the distribution and community structure of animals in ecosystems. However, the balance between energy supply and energy consumption of species has received little attention because of the difficulty of estimating these factors. We measured the carrying capacity of a stream ecosystem in relation to the metabolic demands of Banded Kokopu (
10.1086/674936|Several freshwater fishes have disjunct (geographically discrete and widely spaced) distributions across northern Australia. We used mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (mtDNA) data and phylogeographic analyses to examine the origin of these common disjunct distributions and to test the hypothesis that they were a result of a single biogeographic event. These disjunct distributions are not perfectly shared among species, but we selected 3 species that have wide ranges with the most similar disjunct geographic overlap: Spotted Blue Eye (
10.1899/12-003.1|Incoming solar radiation is an important driver of aquatic ecosystem processes, such as gross primary production and photodegradation of organic matter. Rates of incoming solar radiation can be estimated in several ways, but their utility is limited for collecting a large number of replicate samples needed to quantify variation in light availability within and among streams. We evaluated the utility of 2 photodegrading organic dyes (rhodamine WT [RWT] and fluorescein) for measuring light exposure, especially at the level of the stream bed. We attached vials with known concentrations of the RWT or fluorescein to the stream bed and used regressions of concentration vs accumulated light to estimate photodegradation rates. Initial concentrations of RWT (20100g/L) did not affect rate of photodegradation, but RWT decay rates were 93% slower in the dark than in the light. We also tested fluorescein, which degrades faster than RWT when exposed to light and is stable when kept in the dark. On average, RWT degraded at a slower rate (3.5gL
10.1899/11-057.1|Invertebrate energy density (ED) values are traditionally measured using bomb calorimetry. However, many researchers rely on a few published literature sources to obtain ED values because of time and sampling constraints on measuring ED with bomb calorimetry. Literature values often do not account for spatial or temporal variability associated with invertebrate ED. Thus, these values can be unreliable for use in models and other ecological applications. We evaluated the generality of the relationship between invertebrate ED and proportion of dry-to-wet mass (pDM). We then developed and tested a regression model to predict ED from pDM based on a taxonomically, spatially, and temporally diverse sample of invertebrates representing 28 orders in aquatic (freshwater, estuarine, and marine) and terrestrial (temperate and arid) habitats from 4 continents and 2 oceans. Samples included invertebrates collected in all seasons over the last 19y. Evaluation of these data revealed a significant relationship between ED and pDM (
10.1086/679489|Creation of the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON) provides unparalleled opportunities for continental-scale research and synthesis in aquatic sciences. Organizers of the NEON aquatic network will equip sites at 29 streams or small rivers across bioclimatic regions of the USA to measure O
10.1899/11-101.1|Terrestrial invertebrates (TIs) provide an important trophic subsidy for many stream fishes. However, more information is needed regarding the degree to which different species rely on this subsidy and the potential consequences of altering subsidy levels. Such information is important for understanding foodweb dynamics and predicting patterns of community change as subsidy levels vary among habitats and over time. I manipulated TI inputs to experimental streams and tested for effects on diet and body condition of fishes from 3 different trophic functional groups. Study species included a TI specialist (blackstripe topminnow
10.1899/12-161.1|Dams and impoundments, both large and small, affect downstream physicochemical characteristics and up- and downstream biotic communities. I tested whether small dams and their impoundments altered downstream crayfish assemblages in northern Mississippi. I sampled crayfish and measured physicochemical variables at 4 sites downstream of impoundments (outlet sites) and 4 sites not influenced by impoundments (undammed sites) in August, September, and November 2004. In November 2010, I sampled 7 undammed, 6 outlet, and 3 intermediate sites (influenced by beaver activity or 1km downstream of an impoundment). Crayfish assemblages differed between undammed and outlet sites. Catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE) of
10.1899/10-131.1|Many physicochemical factors potentially impair stream ecosystems in urbanizing basins, but few studies have evaluated their relative importance simultaneously, especially in different environmental settings. We used data collected in 25 to 30 streams along a gradient of urbanization in each of 6 metropolitan areas (MAs) to evaluate the relative importance of 11 physicochemical factors on the condition of algal, macroinvertebrate, and fish assemblages. For each assemblage, biological condition was quantified using 2 separate metrics, nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination site scores and the ratio of observed/expected taxa, both derived in previous studies. Separate linear regression models with 1 or 2 factors as predictors were developed for each MA and assemblage metric. Model parsimony was evaluated based on Akaikes Information Criterion for small sample size (AICc) and Akaike weights, and variable importance was estimated by summing the Akaike weights across models containing each stressor variable. Few of the factors were strongly correlated (Pearson |
10.1086/681970|We conducted a survey of 170 streams distributed throughout the mountaintop-mining region of West Virginia (USA) and linked stream data to a temporally consistent and comprehensive land-cover data set. We then applied a generalized linear modeling framework and constructed cumulative effects models capable of predicting in-stream response to future surface-mine development within the context of other landuse activities. Predictive models provided precise estimates of specific conductance (model
10.1899/12-020.1|Omnivory is prevalent in terrestrial and aquatic food webs. However, the extent and seasonality of predatory feeding by omnivores in stream food webs is largely unknown. To understand better these aspects of omnivory in stream food webs, we investigated seasonal changes in the trophic positions of 2 omnivores in a small forested stream. We selected the amphipod,
10.1086/677556|Urban areas are increasing in size and human population density. The implications of widespread urbanization are apparent for a wide variety of stream organisms, but the responses of stream-dwelling salamanders to urbanization have been understudied historically. Studies on this assemblage have increased sufficiently over the last decade to warrant a review and synthesis of current knowledge. Our survey of the literature indicates a research bias toward species within the Piedmont ecoregion of the USA and a strong emphasis on changes in species richness, relative abundance, and occupancy along an urbanization gradient. Very few investigators have examined vital rates for specific life stages, population dynamics over extended periods, or mechanistic explanations for the specific aspects of urbanization that drive species loss and decline. We reviewed a broad array of literature on stream salamanders to identify the key abiotic and biotic drivers that explain species responses in urban watersheds. Based on these findings and the applied ecological literature, we identified conservation options for urban areas where decision makers and stakeholders wish to preserve stream salamanders and their habitats. We have listed 7 future research priorities that will further efforts to conserve stream salamanders in rapidly urbanizing regions.
10.1899/11-082.1|Freshwater mussels use an array of strategies to transfer their parasitic larvae (glochidia) to fish hosts. We examined the effects of temperature, photoperiod, and female gravidity on mantle lure display and conglutinate release by
10.1086/680662|Development of water-quality criteria to address eutrophication impacts on aquatic life in streams and rivers lags behind development of lake eutrophication criteria, in part, because of multiple stressor pathways, natural variability in nutrient responses between water bodies, and a lack of methods that can address this complexity. Several investigators have demonstrated significant and predictable relationships among summer nutrients, sestonic chlorophyll
10.1899/12-121.1|Raised bog pools are extremely nutrient poor and rich in humic substances, and these features limit primary production. To assess the base of the invertebrate food web in bog pools we measured the stable-isotopic signatures of primary producers, dead organic matter, and invertebrates, and the composition and stable-C-isotope ratio of their phospholipid-derived fatty acids (PLFAs). The stable-isotopic signatures showed the presence of multiple trophic levels and differential use of basal food sources by the invertebrates among and within species, individuals, and size classes. Carnivorous and omnivorous invertebrates assimilated polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) derived from algae, and possibly macrophytes, and fatty acids that are specific for methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB). Part of the bacterial biomass conveyed to higher trophic levels in the bog pools originated from MOB. Pelagic zooplankton appeared to rely more on bacteria, whereas insects relied more on algae. Periphyton, a primary algal food source, was the basal food source most depleted in
10.1899/11.058.1|I assessed effects of the widest range of temperatures ever examined on maximal food-chain length (
10.1086/674180|Restoration of riparian vegetation is widely recognized as a tool in stream rehabilitation, but information on whether local riparian characteristics can mitigate the effects of catchment-level stressors on in-stream processes is limited. We measured community metabolism in 21 streams in the Canterbury region of New Zealand along 2 independent gradients of agricultural intensity and riparian cover (from closed canopied to open canopied) to assess relative effects of landscape and local factors on stream trophic state. We measured stream metabolism with the single-station open-channel diel O
10.1086/675930|Lake benthic cyanobacteria and algae are distributed along a depth gradient. At the extremes of the gradient, irradiance is a selecting factor because of excess (UV exposure in shallow waters) or extreme reduction (light limitation at the bottom of the euphotic zone). We tested whether, how, and to what extent epilithic cyanobacteria assemblages change with depth in a carbonate meromictic lake (Lake Tovel, southeastern Alps) that undergoes marked water-level fluctuations. Fixed stations were placed along a transect at 2- to 3-m depth intervals from 0 to 24 m and were sampled by SCUBA divers. Three depth-distribution zones were identified based on the composition of cyanobacterial assemblages and primary benthic algal pigments: shallow, mid-depth, and deep. The autecological traits of the cyanobacteria indicators identified by indicator value (IndVal) analysis suggested that the shallow, mid-depth, and deep zones were disturbed by water-level fluctuations, highly stable with favorable growth conditions, and severely light-limited, respectively. The shallow zone was colonized mainly by pseudaerial cyanobacteria and by UV-resisting phenoecodemes with yellowbrown sheaths (scytonemin). ShannonWiener diversity was highest in the shallow zone, probably because taxa characteristic of periodically inundated habitats mixed with lacustrine taxa. The most unique morphospecies were in the lower part of the mid-depth and in the deep zone. These species frequently had colorless sheaths or pinkredviolet cell contents. We found clear patterns in the depth distribution of benthic cyanobacteria and algal pigments that indicated adaptation to the principal evolutionary pressures at the extremes of the depth gradient: water-level fluctuation and light attenuation. These features have implications for quality assessments, biodiversity inventories, and identification of areas affected by water-level fluctuations.
10.1086/678249|The interface between ground water and surface water in streams is a hotspot for N processing. However, the role of buried organic C in N transformation at this interface is not well understood, and inferences have been based largely on descriptive studies. Our main objective was to determine how buried particulate organic C (POC) affected denitrification and NO
10.1899/11-114.1|Emulation of natural disturbance (END) is an emerging paradigm for modern, ecosystem-based forest management in North America. On the premise that periodic disturbance is an integral part of natural, determinative processes on forest landscapes, managing forests by emulating natural disturbance is thought to produce landscape patterns that resemble those arising from natural disturbances and that are known to maintain critical processes and habitat for conserving biodiversity. Applying END principles to forest watersheds has implications for the protection of aquatic ecosystems because END can include intentional logging disturbance near water to emulate natural riparian disturbance. Literature shows that logging in watersheds, and especially in riparian areas, can lead to negative abiotic and biotic effects in aquatic ecosystems. However, an integration of the current understanding of landwater linkages in forest watersheds with general disturbance ecology would suggest that periodic watershed and riparian disturbances may be natural renewal processes that are required for long-term sustainability of aquatic ecosystems. Previous syntheses of END in forestry failed to consider the implications for aquatic ecosystems, and most forest-management guidelines default to the protection of water resources by systematic riparian (shoreline) buffers. This paper introduces the concepts of END and provides a theoretical basis for using intentional riparian forest disturbance to sustain aquatic habitat complexity and ecosystem integrity.
10.1086/680381|Introduced predators in donor food webs can disrupt the flow of prey to consumers in recipient food webs. We used mesocosms in a desert spring to investigate how an invasive fish predator, Western Mosquitofish (
10.1899/10-037.1|An increasing number of recent investigations of a wide range of species have considerably changed perspectives in spring ecology. However, relatively little is known about the differences between the eucrenon and assemblages in downstream habitats. We studied changes in environmental conditions and in 4 taxonomic groups along a downstream continuum. Assemblages of diatoms, other benthic macroalgae including cyanobacteria, macroinvertebrates, and bryophytes were compared among eucrenal, hypocrenal, and epirhithral stations in 2 spring-fed streams of the southeastern Italian Alps. Environmental factors were less variable at the eucrenal station than at downstream stations, but this pattern was not reflected by an equivalent response of biotic assemblages. The eucrenon clearly differed from assemblages at downstream stations in ways that varied between taxonomic groups and time. Diatom and macroinvertebrate assemblage compositions were more variable at the eucrenal station than at downstream stations. Space was a more important factor than time for diatoms and benthic macroalgae, whereas space and time were almost equally important for macroinvertebrates. Downstream changes were inconsistent between taxonomic groups, and a larger number of spring-fed streams must be studied to detect more generally valid patterns in downstream variation of different taxonomic groups.
10.1086/680518|Hydrology is a fundamental factor influencing ecosystem dynamics, life-history strategies, and diversity patterns in running-water habitats. However, it remains unclear how hydrology may structure the taxonomic and functional composition of communities, especially in systems with high spatiotemporal variability in flow. We examined invertebrate diversity from 7 desert streams in the Huachuca Mountains of southeastern Arizona, USA, that span a flow permanence continuum from highly intermittent to perennial. We examined the relative roles of flow permanence, habitat size, season, and microhabitat in determining taxonomic and functional structure (according to 7 species traits compiled for 234 taxa) of these communities. We predicted that both functional and taxonomic diversity would be positively related to flow permanence and negatively related to the duration and number of stream drying events. As predicted, increased flow permanence was associated with increased functional richness, functional evenness, and taxonomic richness. Conversely, drying events reduced functional diversity across all measured indices. We found a saturating relationship between functional richness and taxonomic richness, indicating functional redundancy in species-rich communities, which may promote resilience of ecosystem function to environmental variation. Our study adds further evidence that hydrology is a key determinant of aquatic invertebrate diversity, and that stream hydroperiod strongly influences both functional and taxonomic diversity in arid-land streams.
10.1899/10-060.1|Like all headwater systems, springs have been increasingly modified by multiple land uses, but the effects of these modifications on species diversity and community composition are poorly understood. We assessed the consequences of forestry-related disturbance (mainly draining) on benthic macroinvertebrate and bryophyte diversity and community composition in boreal springs. We used predictive modeling (
10.1899/12-110.1|Small dams enhance the development of patchy microenvironments along stream corridors by trapping sediment and creating complex streambed morphologies. This patchiness drives intricate hyporheic flux patterns that govern the exchange of O
10.1086/682669|Many dragonfly species in The Netherlands declined in the 20
10.1899/11-025.1|Understanding species temperature tolerances in the context of concurrent environmental stressors is critical because thermal regimes of freshwater ecosystems are changing. We evaluated the critical thermal maximum (CTM) of 3 freshwater mussel species (
10.1086/683682|Mediterranean ecosystems of California are characterized by high interannual variability in precipitation and susceptibility to frequent high-severity wildfires. Variability in precipitation and fire severity are likely to become more pronounced because of climate change, but their relative effects on linked aquaticterrestrial components of Mediterranean ecosystems have received limited attention. We investigated the effects of wildfire on riparian spiders of the family Tetragnathidae, which are common shoreline consumers that can be highly reliant on aquatic food resources in stream ecosystems. From 20112012, we assessed stream geomorphology; density and community composition of aquatic benthic macroinvertebrates; and density, Hg body loads, trophic position (TP), and reliance on aquatically derived energy (based on naturally abundant C and N isotopes) of tetragnathid spiders in study sections of 12 paired stream reaches in Yosemite National Park. The riparian zone of one member of each pair had experienced a high-severity wildfire, whereas the riparian zone of its counterpart had experienced a low-severity fire. After the 2013 Rim Fire, we resurveyed a subset of these variables in study sections of 4 reaches by means of a paired before-aftercontrol-impact design. We also explored how reach- and catchment-scale variability might affect spider density and trophic dynamics. Differences in spider responses between paired sections were not statistically significant, but model-selection results suggested that variability in benthic invertebrate density, catchment-scale fire frequency, and precipitation were important drivers of spider density and TP. The consistent signal of precipitation across multiple spider responses suggests that climate variability could have greater effects on aquaticterrestrial ecological linkages than the influence of fire alone.
10.1086/679514|Reach-scale stream restoration with natural channel design is often used to improve stream ecosystem structure and function. Some investigators have studied the effects of restoration on the hyporheic zone, but most used space-for-time substitution instead of comparing the same reach before and after restoration. We examined spatial patterns of hyporheic exchange rates and geochemistry during base flow in a 30-m poolrifflepool sequence before and 1 y after the stream was restored by installation of a cross-vane and engineered rock-riffle. Prerestoration vertical hyporheic exchange rates were relatively uniform across the riffle bedform. Average downwelling was 30 cm/d at or upstream of the riffle, and average upwelling was 30 cm/d downstream of the riffle. Downwelling hyporheic exchange rates increased up to an order of magnitude adjacent to the cross-vane and in the engineered rock-riffle. Prerestoration porewater [NO
10.1899/11-037.1|Springs are characterized by consistent thermal and hydrologic conditions, which enable use of spring-inhabiting organisms as sensitive indicators of biogeochemical changes in their catchments. We hypothesized that bryophytes would show a stronger response than vascular plants to changes in spring water quality because submerged bryophytes do not take up compounds from the soil. We analyzed species responses to interannual changes in spring water quality (discharge, water temperature, electrical conductivity, and pH) in 57 forest springs over 4 consecutive years. We calculated interannual turnover in species composition for bryophytes and vascular plants with the BrayCurtis dissimilarity index. We applied regression analysis to test interannual changes in species composition of the taxonomic groups over time, and we used 2-sided
10.1086/679757|The effect of proglacial groundwater systems on surface hydrology and ecology in cold regions often is neglected when assessing the ecohydrological implications of climate change. We present a novel approach in which we combined 2 temperature-tracing techniques to assess the spatial patterns and short-term temporal dynamics of groundwatersurface-water exchange in the proglacial zone of Skaftafellsjkull, a retreating glacier in southeastern Iceland. Our study focuses on localized groundwater discharge to a surface-water environment, where high temporal- and spatial-resolution mapping of sediment surface and subsurface temperatures (1015 cm depth) were obtained by Fiber-Optic Distributed Temperature Sensing (FO-DTS). The FO-DTS survey identified temporally consistent locations of temperature anomalies at the sedimentwater interface, indicating distinct zones of cooler groundwater upwelling. The high-resolution FO-DTS surveys were combined with calculations of 1-dimensional groundwater seepage fluxes based on 3 vertical sediment temperature profiles, covering depths of 10, 25, and 40 cm below the lake bed. The calculated groundwater seepage rates ranged between 1.02 to 6.10 m/d. We used the combined techniques successfully to identify substantial temporal and spatial heterogeneities in groundwatersurface exchange fluxes that have relevance for the ecohydrological functioning of the investigated system and its potential resilience to environmental change.
10.1899/11-134.1|Detritus processing is driven by a complex interplay between macroinvertebrate and microbial activities. Bioturbation/feeding activities of invertebrates in sediments are known to influence decomposition rates. However, direct effects of invertebrates on bacterial communities and detritus processing remain ill-defined, mainly because identifying interactions between invertebrates and sediments is methodologically challenging. We incubated 5 macroinvertebrate species with various bioturbation/feeding traits separately in sediment-filled microcosms inoculated with bacterial communities for 5d. At the end of the experiment, we assessed: 1) detritus processing (mass loss on ignition [LOI] and dissolved organic C accumulation in the overlying water [absorbance at 280nm]), 2) bacterial community structure (intergenic spacer analysis [RISA]) and bacterial activity (electron transport system activity [ETSA]), and 3) development of redox potential (Eh) over time (with permanently installed microelectrodes). Invertebrates enhanced bacterial activity and detritus processing, and the magnitude depended on bioturbation/feeding traits. Bacterial community structure differed significantly between microcosms with burrowing invertebrates and microcosms with sediment-dwelling invertebrates. Eh profiles were similar among microcosms with invertebrates with similar bioturbation/feeding traits, but differed among microcosms with invertebrates with dissimilar bioturbation/feeding traits. Our results suggest that bioturbation by aquatic invertebrates mediates detritus processing, Eh dynamics, and structure of the microbial community. These findings highlight the significance of bioturbation and show the utility of spatiotemporal Eh dynamics as footprints reflecting functioning of benthic detrital food webs.
10.1086/678673|Sewage effluents are recognized as one of the most common sources of river degradation. However, very few investigators have tried to evaluate ecosystem recovery after cessation of wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) discharge. Our goals were to: 1) analyze invertebrate community responses to chemical water quality and habitat changes after wastewater treatment improvement, and 2) evaluate the abilities of taxonomy-based and trait-based approaches to detect and explain community recovery processes in a multistressor context. We studied the benthic macroinvertebrate community of 3 sites of a heavily impaired stream (the Vistre River, France) during a 4-y period that included the decommissioning of a deficient WWTP (WWTP-A) and the commissioning of a new one (WWTP-B). We assessed the recovery of the benthic community by comparing observed taxonomic and trait-based (i.e., functional) metrics at the study site to values estimated with information from least-impaired reaches of the same river type. Most taxonomy-based characteristics of benthic communities subjected to WWTP-A recovered in 3 mo, but the recovery time of several trait-based characteristics was 2 y. No change was observed in taxonomic and trait-based diversity during the 4-y study. Taxonomy-based metrics detected the first signs of river reach recovery rapidly, but combinations of trait-based metrics and taxonomic abundance-based metrics are more likely to identify functional recovery of invertebrate assemblages faced with water-quality improvement, even when multiple stressors impaired upstream reaches.
10.1086/683037|We describe a new species,
10.1086/676912|Body shapes of aquatic insect larvae reflect phenotypic responses to complex environmental conditions and can be used to infer habitat properties and indicate natural and anthropogenic perturbations in river ecosystems. Investigation of relationships between body shape and physical-habitat characteristics has been restricted by a lack of an objective schema for quantitative characterization of body-shape variation. We present a functional ecological framework for body-shape classification based on defined criteria. We applied a geometric morphometric (GM) approach to the general classification of body shape in 4 morphologically diverse orders, Ephemeroptera (E), Plecoptera (P), Trichoptera (T), and Odonata (O) collected from 3 sites with contrasting hydrological and hydraulic characteristics. We describe a robust classification of body shapes for E, P, and O, which possess a compartmentalized body plan, and suggest a preliminary classification for T. We compared GM body shapes with body-shape trait states available in trait databases and found discordance between the 2 classifications. We explored the value of GM body shapes to describe taxon shape structure of reference sites and to detect variation reflecting physical properties of the sites. GM body-shape classes can augment the trait states already available and enhance inference regarding habitat status. Patterns in the shape strategies of aquatic insects, particularly EPO taxa, can be used to extrapolate shape information for other taxonomic groups. GM provides a stable shape classification that can contribute to the description of different ecological strategies of aquatic insects. Expanding the scope of shape information available for many taxonomic groups can improve our understanding of how organism phenotype relates to environmental conditions and supports traits-based assessment.
10.1899/11-161.1|We investigated how dissolved inorganic N (DIN) inputs from a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) effluent are processed biogeochemically by the receiving stream. We examined longitudinal patterns of NH
10.1899/11-080.1|Intersite differences in benthic communities detected by tests of null hypotheses are used routinely to infer effects of habitat perturbation. The statistical outputs from these tests are often treated as binary results (presence or absence of detectable effects), and the sizes and potential biological importance of detected differences or effects are frequently ignored. This situation can be remedied by measuring standardized effect sizes of detected differences. To demonstrate the benefits of standardized effect sizes, we compared benthic communities in streams draining forested and perturbed catchments based on kick-net samples, and samples from bricks and HesterDendy multiplate samplers. We complemented null hypothesis testing by calculating standardized effect sizes (Cohens
10.1086/683038|Blooms of the benthic alga,
10.1899/11-099.1|Near-shore sediments support the most productive and diverse biological communities in lakes and are the sites of intense biogeochemical activity. Understanding what drives temperature and short-term temperature variability in near-shore sediments is important because benthic organisms and processes are temperature-dependent. I compared sediment and near-bottom water temperatures throughout the growing season (MaySeptember) at 5 shallow near-shore sites in Lake Opeongo (Ontario, Canada). These sampling sites were more or less exposed to hydrodynamic forces and had different sediment characteristics but were not influenced by groundwater flow. The sediments were cooler than the overlying water column, especially in spring. Sediment temperature tracked water temperature and, therefore, was variable over short time scales (hd). Temperature changes in near-shore sediments were smaller and slightly delayed compared to those in the overlying water. Over a whole season, temperature variability measured 5cm below the sediment surface was, on average, 40 to 60% lower than that observed in the overlying water. The reduction in temperature variability was related to sediment characteristics and differed seasonally. Thermal diffusivity of these near-shore lake sediments ranged over an order of magnitude (0.00060.007cm
10.1086/675226|Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcode (cytochrome
10.1899/12-187.1|In cleaning symbioses, colonization of hosts by parasites and other epibionts often varies across habitats, and this variability could influence the net effect of cleaners on host fitness. We investigated how variation in environmental fouling (i.e., epibiont colonization and accumulation of particulate matter) influenced symbiont populations and partner regulation in a crayfishbranchiobdellidan worm cleaning symbiosis. We manipulated initial worm density and environmental fouling in a laboratory experiment. We monitored the number of worms (both stocked, large worms and juvenile worms born during the experiment) and the number of worm cocoons deposited on the crayfish for 8wk. Initial worm density and fouling potential of the environment significantly affected removal of large worms by crayfish. Loss of large worms was higher in the high-initial-density and the low-fouling treatments during the 1
10.1086/676938|Collaboration is an essential skill for modern ecologists because it brings together diverse expertise, viewpoints, and study systems. The Lotic Intersite Nitrogen eXperiments (LINX I and II), a 17-y research endeavor involving scores of early- to late-career stream ecologists, is an example of the benefits, challenges, and approaches of successful collaborative research in ecology. The scientific success of LINX reflected tangible attributes including clear scientific goals (hypothesis-driven research), coordinated research methods, a team of cooperative scientists, excellent leadership, extensive communication, and a philosophy of respect for input from all collaborators. Intangible aspects of the collaboration included camaraderie and strong team chemistry. LINX further benefited from being part of a discipline in which collaboration is a tradition, clear data-sharing and authorship guidelines, an approach that melded field experiments and modeling, and a shared collaborative goal in the form of a universal commitment to see the project and resulting data products through to completion.
10.1086/681106|Top-down and bottom-up forces (consumer and resource limitation, respectively) influence biomass of primary producers and primary consumers in natural food webs. Few investigators experimentally examine both in concert, especially in the tropics. Tropical systems probably are more sensitive than temperate systems to eutrophication and other disturbances, such as destruction of riparian canopy cover, because of wide windows of ecological opportunity. We experimentally examined the relative importance of top-down and bottom-up effects at 2 sites in the Edith River in the Australian wetdry tropics during baseflow conditions. We used large fish-exclusion cages to examine top-down effects of fish, and we used nutrient-diffusing substrates to manipulate bottom-up effects of nutrients. Macroinvertebrates were significantly more abundant in fish-exclusion cages than in open control areas at both sites. At 1 site, chlorophyll
10.1899/11-120.1|We assessed the relative magnitude of various factors (year, preservation method, continent, investigator, and taxonomic level) affecting prediction of invertebrate dry mass (DM) in light of the variability of assessments of invertebrate density. We developed 34 length (L)DM relationships for Oligochaeta and 17 freshwater invertebrate families belonging to Mollusca, Crustacea, and Insecta. Comparison of our predicted DM for reference-size individuals with values from 120 other published equations revealed that 31% of predicted values were within our 95% CI and 73% were within a 2 DM range (i.e., between 0.5 and 2). Interannual differences in exponent (slope) or scale factor (intercept) of LDM relationships were detected for 6 of the 7 taxa investigated, but represented only 3% of total variance in predicted DM. Similarly, preservation methods and measured body dimension each accounted for a small (03%) fraction of total variance. Variation among investigators (1250%) and continents (117%) were more important and might have reflected methodological or regional and latitudinal differences. Increasingly precise taxonomical levels explained progressively lower proportions of the total variance, a result indicating that family or a more precise taxonomic level provided a robust estimate of most invertebrate DM even if the equations were derived from other sites. However, overall variability induced by LDM relationships was smaller than variability in total invertebrate density among replicate samples (coefficient of variation [CV] = 1997%), a result indicating that more effort should be devoted to improving the accuracy of invertebrate density estimates than to developing site-specific LDM relationships to assess benthic biomass in freshwater.
10.1086/677554|Small, permanent streams are at risk of becoming stagnant or intermittent because of hydrological changes induced by climate change, which can be further intensified by anthropogenic disruptions, such as water abstraction. Macroinvertebrate communities are vulnerable to such changes because they depend on stream hydromorphological regime. We conducted a fully controlled field experiment in 1 impacted and 1 unimpacted Danish lowland stream with contrasting nutrient availability. We used dams and diversions to create short-term (210 wk) stagnant and drought conditions, and we installed pools in the drought area to test their value as refugia for benthic macroinvertebrates. After 2 wk, community composition had changed significantly in all treatments in both streams. The abundance of Chironomidae increased and the abundance of mayflies (
10.1899/11-066.1|Anthropogenic activities increase rates of N input to the environment, and loss of this N is controlled by several factors, including denitrification. Streams are the initial receptors of terrestrial N, but the extent to which variability in stream denitrification rates are related to differences in microbial community structure are largely unexplored. In our study, the rate of denitrification and taxonomic and functional gene diversity and abundance were examined in 3 Indiana (USA) streams with differing amounts of watershed agriculture. Taxonomic and functional gene diversity were measured using terminal restriction length polymorphisms of the 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) and nitrous oxide reductase (
10.1086/674874|Uptake and storage by biofilms facilitate the ability of streams to act as sinks for inorganic nutrients. Quantifying P fluxes over short time periods is important for understanding physiological responses to nutrient inputs, but few researchers have examined spatial and temporal variability in patterns of short-term biofilm nutrient uptake. We sampled intact stream biofilm assemblages seasonally (autumnsummer) across a spatial productivity gradient (8 streams in 2 provinces [Plateau and Piedmont] in Pennsylvania, USA) and tested responses to a P source over the first few minutes of exposure to resolve changes in initial assimilatory kinetics in short-term radiotracer experiments. We estimated P uptake and efflux rates with local regression (LOESS) and found distinct breakpoints in P fluxes. Mean maximum uptake occurred at 1.65 and 2.60 min, whereas maximum efflux occurred at 4.51 and 4.62 min in Piedmont and Plateau provinces, respectively. Biofilm nutrient content and accumulation rates were strong predictors of P uptake and efflux. P uptake and efflux differed between provinces (
10.1899/11-068.1|Dryland rivers are globally widespread and regionally important, and understanding their ecology is critical for sustaining ecosystem processes and biodiversity. The dry tropics are characterized by episodic summer rainfall. Most of annual river flow occurs in a short period of time, after which rivers typically contract into a series of waterholes of varying permanence and hydrologic connectivity. We investigated how seasonal environmental factors affected macroinvertebrate assemblage composition in dry-tropics rivers at the river, site, and habitat scales. We assessed biophysical characteristics, including water physicochemistry, riparian-zone condition, and macroinvertebrate assemblage composition at 15 sites on 4 unimpounded rivers in the Burdekin catchment, north Queensland, Australia. We used permutational analysis of variance and multiresponse permutation procedures to identify differences between a priori groups, and illustrated the results with principle components analysis (biophysical data) and nonmetric multidimensional scaling (invertebrate assemblage data). Biophysical variables were spatially and temporally variable, and all rivers and most sites differed significantly. Macroinvertebrate assemblages also differed significantly among rivers, sites within rivers, habitats, and seasons. Assemblages from the same habitat but different sites were more similar than assemblages from different habitats within the same site. Thus, the dynamic environment of dryland river systems drives naturally dynamic and variable macroinvertebrate assemblages across a range of scales. The differences among sites from the same river were of particular importance from a monitoring standpoint because they indicated that extrapolating whole-river condition from a few sampled sites would be difficult.
10.1086/683426|Peatlands are found around the world and cover 3.4% of the Earths surface. In the UK, peatlands cover 17.2% or 1.58 Mha of the land surface and occur mainly in upland areas covering the headwaters of most major British rivers. However, large areas are now subject to prescribed vegetation burning despite policy guidance that recommends a strong presumption against burning on deep blanket peat. Wildfires occur sporadically but are forecast to increase in frequency in the future. This paper provides a synthesis of current knowledge about how UK peatland-dominated river catchments respond to fires caused by prescribed vegetation burning and uncontrolled wildfire. We provide insight into the effects of fire on the hydrology, biogeochemistry, and biota of peatland river ecosystems, and the peatland-soil-driven controls on these effects at the catchment scale. Burning increases the depth to water table and water-table variability, although some small-scale studies indicate shallower water table in some places. More work is needed on fire effects on peatland river flow, but recent results suggest a complex response with smaller flow peaks for burned systems associated with most rainfall events, but enhanced peaks compared to unburned systems for the top quintile of rainfall events with the largest total rain. Evidence from biogeochemical studies suggests that fire leads to increased dissolved organic C concentrations in rivers. River biota responses primarily include significant reductions in the density of grazing mayflies but increases among detritivores including Chironomidae and
10.1899/12-072.1|The relationship between the widespread and common oligochaete
10.1086/677883|During the past century, the Kootenai River, Idaho (USA), has experienced cultural oligotrophication following extensive levee construction, channelization, wetland drainage, and impoundment. A multiyear, whole-river nutrient-addition experiment was undertaken to mitigate these effects. The river was dosed with liquid agricultural-grade ammonium polyphosphate fertilizer (10-34-0) from June through September 20062010 to achieve an in-river total dissolved P (TDP) concentration of 3.0 g/L. A fine-scale monitoring program included 8 sites over a 20-km reach (2 upstream control sites, one injection site, and 5 downstream treatment sites). Nutrient addition did not significantly increase N and P concentrations in the water column, but it significantly increased chlorophyll accrual rates and densities of edible green algae and diatoms. Nutrient addition significantly reduced NO
10.1086/683432|Wildfire frequency and intensity are expected to increase as a result of climate change, but few studies have assessed the effects of wildfires on stream ecosystem processes. The aim of our study was to examine the long-term responses of leaf-litter breakdown to wildfire in a Mediterranean stream. Riparian canopy cover was reduced by a fire, resulting in higher temperatures and light levels and reduced leaf-litter inputs in the stream 8 y after the fire. Benthic invertebrate communities recovered quickly after the fire, and the abundances of different functional feeding groups (FFGs), including shredders, were not different between streams affected and unaffected by the fire after >2 postfire years. We compared microbially mediated (fine-mesh bags) and total breakdown rates (coarse-mesh bags) of
10.1899/11-135.1|I collected stoneflies (PlecopteraPerlidae) across gradients of elevation and stream size within a 274-km
10.1086/682073|Hines emerald dragonfly
10.1086/682421|Communities have an important role to play in the protection of urban streams, particularly with how stormwater runoff from their properties is managed. As part of a larger research project, we used 3 sequential approaches to engage communities in protecting their local creek by managing their properties stormwater runoff. We assessed their success through surveys and measurements of uptake. Our initial efforts elicited strong interest from the community, but participation rates were greatest when the application process was simplified and barriers to participation were removed. The sequential implementation of the approaches limits inference of their comparative effectiveness, but the results suggest that the iterative and adaptive nature and extended period of the process facilitated the targeting of diverse motivations and the building of community trust, which in turn led to greater community participation.
10.1899/11-094.1|Designing management strategies based on the emulation of natural disturbance (END) to promote long-term sustainability of riparian forests and their adjacent aquatic ecosystems is an evolving process. Conceptually, the goal of END in riparian forest management is to mimic, to the extent possible, natural disturbance processes within the range of natural variability of the ecosystem while accounting for both temporal (frequency) and spatial (size) scales of the disturbance. The application of END in riparian forests has been evaluated in a limited but growing number of studies. From these studies, the idea has emerged that END could be used as a
10.1086/678771|Although used in many jurisdictions around the world, analytical approaches of the Reference Condition Approach (RCA) to bioassessment of freshwater ecosystems have evolved quite slowly over the past 2 decades. For this special series of papers in
10.1086/683241|The Grand River is a 7
10.1086/682565|Municipalities often play the principal role in the management of urban stormwater runoff. Dominant approaches involve routing urban stormwater runoff directly to streams, which has negative impacts on waterway health. Alternative management approaches, such as low-impact drainage management, have the potential to protect or restore urban streams, but remain rarely used. The Yarra Ranges Council (YRC), a municipality in Melbourne, Australia, collaborated with a team of researchers to construct stormwater-harvesting schemes, infiltration systems, and other measures (e.g., low-flow filters for water-quality treatment), as part of a catchment-scale experiment on low-impact drainage management. We held a workshop to elicit views of staff across a range of departments on insights gained from the experiment. We also gathered information on the design and construction of works to support findings from the workshop. Over time, research collaboration increased the capacity of YRC in low-impact drainage management. This increased capacity was linked to the temporary assignment of one of the researchers to work in the municipalitys engineering department. The researcher increased the confidence and trust of YRC in the use of new stormwater-management technologies. This temporary assignment into YRC helped support the long-term nature of the collaboration, which built trust over time. Our results support the views of scholars that civil experimentation can improve the capacity of municipalities to implement alternative approaches to urban stormwater management, with the aim of protecting or restoring streams.
10.1086/680724|Ecologists increasingly use threshold elemental ratios (TERs) to explain and predict organism responses to altered resource CP or CN. TER calculations are grounded in diet-dependent growth, but growth data are limited for most taxa. Thus, TERs are derived instead from bioenergetics models that rely on simplifying assumptions, such as fixed organism CP and no P excretion at peak growth. We examined stoichiometric regulation of the stream insect detritivore
10.1899/12-049.1|Nutrient enrichment affects bacteria and fungi associated with detritus, but little is known about how biota associated with different size fractions of organic matter respond to nutrients. Bacteria dominate on fine (<1mm) and fungi dominate on coarse (>1mm) fractions, which are used by different groups of detritivores. We measured the effect of experimental nutrient enrichment on fungal and bacterial biomass, microbial respiration, and detrital nutrient content on benthic fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) and coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM). We collected FPOM and CPOM from 1 reference and 1 enriched stream. CPOM substrates consisted of 2litter types with differing initial C:nutrient ratios (
10.1899/12-031.1|We used in situ nutrient-enrichment experiments at sites in 4 Texas streams spanning a steep nutrient gradient to test the hypothesis that periphyton photoautotrophs and heterotrophs are differentially limited by N and P, respectively. We contrasted the responses of total periphyton biomass (ash-free dry mass [AFDM]), photoautotrophic biomass (chlorophyll
10.1899/12-056.1|Identification of ecological thresholds is important both for theoretical and applied ecology. Recently,
10.1086/680442|Encroachment by woody vegetation is a major threat to tallgrass prairie streams, and converts them from open- to closed-canopy systems. This change presumably shifts the relative importance of basal resources from autochthonous to allochthonous and may alter functional feeding group composition and production of consumers. Riparian trees were removed from 2 headwater stream reaches on the Konza Prairie Biological Station to examine effects of forest encroachment and removal. Removal reaches were compared to reaches with naturally open and closed canopies before and after manipulation. Benthic organic matter and macroinvertebrates were sampled monthly for 1 y before (year 1) and after (year 2) riparian forest removal. Total secondary production in removal reaches ranged from 8.9 to 10.2 g ash-free dry mass (AFDM) m
10.1899/10-038.1|The traditional and widely used ecomorphological spring classificationpool springs (limnocrenes), seepages (helocrenes), and flowing springs (rheocrenes)is based mainly on the flow regime at the spring mouth. This clear distinction is based purely on environmental conditions, but how and to what extent these spring typologies are reflected by biological assemblages consisting of different taxonomic groups remains largely untested. Classification of habitats typically is based on one or few taxonomic groups. However, groups are likely to differ in their response to the environment, so different, equally valid classifications might result with different groups. We evaluated the responses and their congruence of a wide range of taxonomic groups to different spring types. Eighty-six springs in the Italian Alps were first classified based on environmental factors only. The consistency of this classification was tested using diatoms, bryophytes, vascular plants, nematodes, mollusks, oligochaetes, water mites, copepods, ostracods, chironomids, stoneflies, and caddisflies. When only environmental variables were used, 7 spring types were distinguished: limnocrenes and helocrenes, low- and high-altitude rheocrenes on carbonate rocks, rheocrenes on siliceous rocks, rheocrenes with high discharge, and hygropetric rheocrenes. This classification was reflected by most taxonomic groups, and many species were characteristic for 1 spring type. However, the predictive power of the environment for determining species distribution was generally low, a result suggesting that other factors may play an important role in structuring spring assemblages. Concordance among taxonomic groups was found for 2 macrogroups of organisms: autotrophs (diatoms, bryophytes, and vascular plants) and heterotrophs. This result shows that achieving a general classification of springs relevant across all taxonomic groups would be difficult.
10.1086/674173|The ecological effects of water hyacinth (
10.1899/12-129.1|The effects of nutrient enrichment on aquatic ecosystems have been well documented, but less is known about how these effects vary in response to additional stressors. I used experimental mesocosms to assess how nutrient enrichment affected zooplankton density and community structure in the presence and absence of invasive zebra mussels (
10.1899/11-045.1|Development of radio frequency identification (RFID) technology and passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags has substantially increased the ability of researchers and managers to monitor populations of aquatic organisms. However, use of transportable RFID antenna systems (i.e., backpack-mounted) is currently limited to wadeable aquatic environments (<1.4m water depth). We describe the design, construction, and evaluation of a boat-mounted RFID antenna to detect individually PIT-tagged benthic aquatic organisms (mussels). We evaluated the effects of tag orientation on detection distances in water with a 32-mm half-duplex PIT tag. Detection distances up to 50cm from the antenna coils were obtained, but detection distance was dependent on tag orientation. We also evaluated detection distance of PIT tags beneath the sediment to simulate detection of burrowing mussels with 23- and 32-mm tags. In sand substrate, the maximum detection distance varied from 3.5cm and 4.5cm (vertical tag orientation) to 24.7cm and 39.4cm (45 tag orientation) for the 23- and 32-mm PIT tags, respectively. Our results suggest a 1.4-m total detection width for tagged mussels on the substrate surface by the boat-mounted antenna system regardless of tag orientation. However, burrowed mussels may require multiple passes to increase detection that would be influenced by depth, tag orientation, and tag size. Construction of the boat-mounted antenna was relatively low in cost (<500 USD) and had several advantages (less labor and time intensive, increased safety) over traditional mussel sampling techniques (diving, snorkeling) in nonwadeable habitats.
10.1899/12-100.1|Global climate change threatens to affect negatively the structure, function, and diversity of aquatic ecosystems worldwide. In alpine systems, the thermal tolerances of stream invertebrates can be assessed to understand better the potential effects of rising ambient temperatures and continued loss of glaciers and snowpack on alpine stream ecosystems. We measured the critical thermal maximum (CTM) and lethal temperature maximum (LTM) of the meltwater stonefly (
10.1899/11-089|Many pharmaceutical compounds have been detected in surface waters, but their effects on stream ecosystem function are not currently understood. Concentrations of cimetidine, a widely used antihistamine, have increased in streams and rivers. Invertebrates may be affected by exposure to cimetidine because they use histamines to regulate olfactory and stomatogastric function. Primary producers, such as algal biofilms, also may be affected by cimetidine, which may in turn, alter metabolism and ultimately invertebrate population dynamics. We conducted a long-term (83d) experiment in artificial streams to measure the chronic effects of cimetidine on benthic biofilm function and stream invertebrate growth and population dynamics. We exposed 2 common invertebrate species,
10.1899/11-043.1|Burrowing benthic organisms promote water and solute fluxes across the sedimentwater interface. Water and solutes penetrate the burrow walls and are transported into/out of the sediment when organisms flush their burrows with overlying water. Few studies have been done to investigate bioirrigation under shifting environmental conditions. We experimentally quantified bioirrigation by
10.1086/681541|Considerable attention has been paid to the potentially confounding effects of geological and seasonal variation on outputs from bioassessments in temperate streams, but our understanding about these influences is limited for many tropical systems. We explored variation in macroinvertebrate assemblage composition and the environmental characteristics of 3
10.1086/680038|The distribution of biota in aquatic ecosystems, including aquifers, is collectively influenced by habitat structure, water quality, seasonality, and local variations in environmental conditions. However, little is known about the nature and relative influences of such factors in groundwater ecosystems. Our aims were to identify the key environmental variables influencing the distribution of biota within the Gwydir River alluvial aquifer in northwestern New South Wales, Australia, and to consider the relative importance of environmental variables, in terms of habitat structure, water quality, seasonality, and site attributes, to both microbial and invertebrate (stygofauna) assemblages. Stygofauna distribution was primarily influenced by habitat variables (predominantly sediment structure) followed by site variables (abundance of trees), with water quality and seasonality having relatively little influence. These results indicate that it is the aquifer conditions relating to habitat structure, water flow, and the supply of organic matter that are most important for determining stygofauna distribution. Microbial assemblage structure was not strongly correlated with habitat variables, possibly because habitat restraints do not exist because of their smaller size. Instead, seasonality and water-quality variables had the greatest influence on microbial assemblages. Microbes might respond to seasonal (particularly rainfall induced) changes in water quality more quickly than do stygofauna, which may explain the relatively greater importance of seasonality and water quality to microbial assemblages. Given that stygofauna are most influenced by habitat and site variables, and microbial assemblages are most influenced by seasonality and water quality, disturbance to any of these factors may threaten the stability and integrity of the groundwater ecosystem.
10.1899/12-088.1|Physical changes to rivers associated with large dams (e.g., water temperature) directly alter macroinvertebrate assemblages. Large dams also may indirectly alter these assemblages by changing the food resources available to support macroinvertebrate production. We examined the diets of the 4 most common macroinvertebrate taxa in the Colorado River through Glen and Grand Canyons, seasonally, at 6 sites for 2.5y. We compared macroinvertebrate diet composition to the composition of epilithon (rock and cliff faces) communities and suspended organic seston to evaluate the degree to which macroinvertebrate diets tracked downstream changes in resource availability. Diets contained greater proportions of algal resources in the tailwater of Glen Canyon Dam and more terrestrial-based resources at sites downstream of the 1
10.1086/683242|Hypolimnetic oxygenation is a technique used to restore oxic conditions in the summer hypolimnia of lakes, thereby reducing internal P recycling, metal flux, and increasing fish habitat. O
10.1899/12-029.1|A growing body of genes-to-ecosystems research has documented the ecosystem-level consequences of intraspecific variation in plants caused in large part by variation in chemical composition. Understanding how this genetic variation in trees might interact with elevated nutrients resulting from increases in anthropogenic deposition may give us insight into how future riparian forests might influence adjacent streams through leaf-litter deposition. We examined the effects of tree genotype, soil nutrient environment, and their interaction on aspen (
10.1086/681540|We explored the effects of introduced trout on primary and secondary producers at 2 spatial scales in 17 Andean stream reaches above 3000 m asl in 3 subbasins of the Guayllabamba watershed in Ecuador. At each stream reach, we measured trout density, biological factors, and environmental factors that might affect distribution and density of trout. We also carried out a field-inclusion experiment along a 105-m section of the Saltana stream (which has no trout), in which we introduced trout in experimental cages to assess their effects on aquatic invertebrate populations and algal biomass.
10.1899/11-091.1|Streams affected by acid mine drainage (AMD) are highly stressed ecosystems and occur worldwide. These streams typically have low pH, high concentrations of dissolved metals, and substrata coated with metal hydroxide precipitates. This combination of chemical and physical stressors creates a challenging environment for aquatic biota. We provide a synthesis of the effects of AMD on stream food webs to provide a holistic perspective of these highly stressed ecosystems. First, we reviewed the effects of AMD on the structure and function of algal, microbial, invertebrate, and fish communities. Then, we used this published information to propose generalized food webs and identify areas for future research. In general, AMD-affected streams have depauperate communities that are dominated by a few tolerant species, and ecosystem processes (e.g., decomposition) are often impaired. Biota respond differently to the individual stressors (e.g., pH compared to precipitates), which may complicate remediation efforts that focus primarily on neutralizing acidity and removing metals from mine discharges. Food webs in these streams are substantially altered because basal resources are less productive or inaccessible, microbial processing of organic matter is slow, many grazers and shredders are absent, and fish are replaced by invertebrates as top predators. Structurally, declines in species diversity and the loss of fish shorten and simplify food webs by decreasing the number of interactions among species. Functionally, most energy pathways are weakened by disrupted trophic links, and this problem should to be a key target of restoration efforts. We think research that focuses on species interactions in a foodweb context is needed to provide a better understanding of community organization and functioning in these highly stressed ecosystems.
10.1086/674796|Migratory life cycles and population structure of 2 putatively diadromous Australian fishes were examined using otolith chemistry (
10.1899/12-071.1|We hypothesized that
10.1899/11-052|Pronounced stoichiometric imbalances (CNP) between consumers and resources reported from nutrient-poor systems potentially constrain key ecological processes, but such imbalances should be less marked when more nutrients are available. In a headwater stream rich in nutrients (total P = 208g/L; total oxidizable N = 7mg/L), we determined the elemental composition and standing stock of the consumer species and basal resources in relation to taxonomic identity, feeding mode, and season (spring and autumn). Compared with previous studies, basal resources had low elemental ratios (CN and CP), reflecting the high concentrations of inorganic nutrients in the water. Nevertheless, elemental imbalances were still evident between consumers and these basal resources, particularly for organisms feeding on detritus. Some of the variation in elemental ratios among consumers could be attributed to taxonomic identity. Furthermore, detritivores typically were depleted in N and P compared to taxonomically related species with different feeding modes. Elemental ratios of primary consumers differed between the 2 sampling occasions. Collector-gatherers and scrapers had lower CP and NP and shredders had higher CN in October than in May. Basal resources (fine and coarse particulate organic matter and periphyton) made up most of the standing stock of organic N and P, but quantities varied between May and October. The elemental composition of consumers of basal resources appeared to track changes in resource availability. Even with a plentiful supply of inorganic N and P available to primary producers, the availability of elements from food (a combination of quality and quantity) may influence the elemental composition of consumers.
10.1086/682668|For dragonflies, the final exuviae are the most identifiable nymphal stage, can substitute for lethal processing of live animals, and definitively indicate life-cycle completion or reproductive success. However, dragonfly exuviae are difficult to find and identify relative to adults, and species richness in exuvial surveys is generally biased low. We tested readily acquired information in adult surveys as indicators of exuviae presence and, therefore, species residency. Repeated concurrent surveys of adults and exuviae were completed at 32 wetlands in New York and 30 wetlands in Oklahoma, USA. We modeled the occurrence of exuviae as logit-linear functions of adult abundance, detection frequency (across surveys), teneral frequency, and frequency of breeding behavior while controlling for imperfect detectability. Exuviae occupancy probabilities suggested several reliable indicators of species residency: 1) finding adults on 4 surveys, 2) finding tenerals on 2 surveys, and 3) counting >20 adults on 1 surveys (with caveats). The odds of exuviae occurrence when these conditions were met were 9 to 18 greater than when no adults were detected. Species residency may be accurately inferred during adult surveys, potentially improving freshwater applications and conservation via dragonflies.
10.1086/680011|Excess NO
10.1086/674430|The karst areas in the Dinaric region of the Western Balkan Peninsula are a hotspot of freshwater biodiversity. Many investigators have examined diversification of the subterranean freshwater fauna in these karst systems. However, diversification of surface-water fauna remains largely unexplored. We assessed local and regional diversification of surface-water species in karst systems and asked whether patterns of population differentiation could be explained by dispersaldiversification processes or allopatric diversification following karst-related microscale vicariance. We analyzed mitochondrial cytochrome
10.1086/674536|Aquatic insects are widely used as indicator taxa to assess the ecological state of streams and to evaluate the success of stream restoration projects. Information on intraspecific genetic diversity and population connectivity is often lacking for such indicator taxa. However, these parameters are of critical importance for restoration plans and conservation management because: 1) species sometimes consist of several cryptic species and 2) species can recolonize only those restored habitats within a reachable distance from their source populations. Gene flow generally cannot be observed directly, and molecular markers provide a reasonable alternative to assess the dispersal potential and evaluate species genetic diversity. We investigated the genetic diversity and dispersal potential of the predatory stonefly
10.1899/12-152.1|We examined how invasion of tropical riparian forests by an exotic N-fixing tree (
10.1086/678128|Accurate knowledge of the distribution of rare, indicator, or invasive species is required for conservation and management decisions. However, species monitoring done with conventional methods may have limitations, such as being laborious in terms of cost and time, and often requires invasive sampling of specimens. Environmental DNA (eDNA) has been identified as a molecular tool that could overcome these limitations, particularly in aquatic systems. Detection of rare and invasive amphibians and fish in lake and river systems has been effective, but few studies have targeted macroinvertebrates in aquatic systems. We expanded eDNA techniques to a broad taxonomic array of macroinvertebrate species in river and lake systems. We were able to detect 5 of 6 species (
10.1086/678949|Despite the existence of many approaches to reference-condition modeling, Bayesian statistical methods have not been used. We assessed whether a hybrid approach that combined features of existing reference-condition approaches with Bayesian model fitting and assessment of test sites could provide superior results to existing established methods. We used 4 Bayesian models of increasing complexity to develop and test reference-condition models for 5 biotic endpoints across 3 data sets. Our best models were comparable or superior to standard approaches (Benthic Assessment of Sediment, Australian River Assessment System) using the same data. Those of our models with the simplest endpoint (species richness) performed best. On average, those models with the simplest model structures also performed best, but differences in performance among models of different complexity were small. All models performed poorly at detecting the lower levels of simulated impact in the test data. However, these impacts were small relative to the variation among validation sites and consequent predictive uncertainty of the models. The Bayesian approach to reference-condition modeling shows promise as an alternative to existing methods. It also has advantages in terms of the ease of interpretation of model outputs. However, for the approach to be relevant, further development work should be driven by a perceived need to revise standard methods used by management agencies.
10.1086/675681|Data on the functional composition of invertebrates in tropical streams are needed to develop models of ecosystem functioning and to assess anthropogenic effects on ecological condition. We collected macroinvertebrates during dry and wet seasons from pools and riffles in 10 open- and 10 closed-canopy Kenyan highland streams. We classified macroinvertebrates into functional feeding groups (FFGs), which we used to assess effects of riparian condition and season on functional organization. We used cluster analysis of gut contents to classify 86 taxa as collectors, predators, scrapers, or shredders. We classified 23 taxa whose guts were empty or had indistinguishable contents based on literature. In total, we identified 43 predators, 26 collectors, 19 scrapers, and 19 shredders. Total abundance was higher in open-canopy agricultural streams, and species richness was higher in closed-canopy forested streams. Predators and shredders dominated richness and biomass, respectively, in the closed-canopy streams. The shredders,
10.1086/683481|Fire can transform the boreal forest landscape, thereby leading to potential changes in the loading of organic matter and nutrients to receiving streams and in the retention or transformation of these inputs within the drainage network. We used the Tracer Additions for Spiraling Curve Characterization (TASCC) method to conduct 17 nutrient-addition experiments (9 single additions of NO
10.1899/11-131.1|Floristic studies indicate the abundance of microalgae in northern boreal peatlands, but we know relatively little about their ecology or how they will respond to changes in environmental conditions expected in this region as climate changes. We examined changes in algal community structure at sites exposed to a long-term water-table manipulation, including drought (lowered water-table treatment), flooding (raised water-table treatment), and control (no manipulation) treatments in an Alaskan fen. In previous years, continuous algal colonization typically would have occurred only in the raised water-table treatment, but a spring flood inundated experimental plots and provided a unique opportunity to examine algal community response to rewetting after long-term drought. This event allowed us to investigate how much ecosystem memory of the antecedent water-table manipulations regulated the ability of taxa to recolonize sites after prolonged drought compared to sites that had been continuously flooded. Despite no differences in water-table position among treatments at the time of sampling, surface-water nutrient concentrations were higher in the lowered water-table treatment relative to the other treatments after the spring thaw. This difference corresponded with greater algal abundance and biovolume in the lowered water-table treatment relative to the control and raised water-table treatments. Higher abundance and biovolume was driven mainly by filamentous green algae (Chlorophyta), especially
10.1086/680523|Development of effective methods for assessing the ecological status of lakes based on littoral benthic fauna has been hampered by the lack of quantitative data on the relative impacts of key pressures on the benthic community. We used variance partitioning at 126 sites belonging to 14 natural Mediterranean lakes to analyze the pure and shared effects of eutrophication, morphological alterations, microhabitat type, lake morphometry and geographic position on the littoral macroinvertebrate community. The spatial arrangement of the sampling sites was responsible for 9.1% of the total variance in littoral benthic community composition, lake morphometry accounted for 4.3% of variation, and microhabitat type accounted for 3.9%. Communities appeared to be affected primarily by morphological alterations to lake shorelines, and their impact was 2.5 times as important as that of eutrophication. The structure of littoral benthic communities was governed by processes acting at several spatial scales from region to lake scale. Thus, several pressures and the various spatial scales at which these act should be taken into account when implementing methods of assessing lake ecological condition based on littoral benthic invertebrates. Region-specific methods for subalpine and volcanic lakes might enhance the validity of assessment of results of morphological alterations and improve management of those water resources.
10.1086/675508|Disturbance of freshwater ecosystems through cultural eutrophication has resulted in an increased global occurrence of harmful algal blooms (HABs). Ecosystem disrupting algal blooms (EDABs) are a subset of HABs that produce extensive disturbances across entire ecosystems.
10.1086/677767|Channelized streams are common in North American agricultural regions, where they minimize water residence time and biological nutrient processing. Floodplain restoration done via the 2-stage-ditch management strategy can improve channel stability and nutrient retention during storms. We examined the influence of floodplain restoration on whole-stream metabolism by measuring gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER) for 1 y before and 4 y after restoration of an upstream, unaltered control reach and a downstream, restored reach. Both reaches were biologically active and dynamic. GPP ranged from 0.1 to 22.1 g O
10.1899/13-008.1|Identifying the ecological mechanisms that determine foodweb structure is critical for understanding the causes and consequences of diversity. Food-chain length (FCL) is a product of the biotic interactions within a community and the environment, but how environmental variation affects FCL is not well understood. We examined how gradients of ecosystem size and environmental variation in hydroperiod affected the FCL of ponds. Using C and N stable isotopes, we found that average FCL was 3.3 and varied by 3 trophic levels across ponds and years. We showed that ponds with shorter hydroperiods have shorter food chains, and that FCL is not strongly influenced by ecosystem size. These results demonstrate support for the dynamic constraints hypothesis, which states that less-predictable environments should have shorter food chains. Our data are not consistent with the prediction of the ecosystem size hypothesis that larger ecosystems have longer food chains. Insect and amphibian richness increased with increasing pond size and hydroperiod, results indicating that insertion of new species into the pond communities is a driving mechanism causing variation in FCL. Omnivory could explain variation in FCL, but our results show that the incidence of omnivory was similar across the environmental gradients. Ours is one of the few empirical studies to link structural changes in the food web with variability in FCL. We showed that temporal variation and species composition shape pond communities and influence foodweb structure.
10.1086/675933|Western Michigans inventory of natural resources includes Great Lakes sand dunes; grasslands; forests; wetlands; lakes, rivers, and streams; shorelines and riparian habitats; and unique farmland. All of these environmental assets are under continuous threat of fragmentation and development, and numerous efforts have been undertaken to protect them. Many of these local and regional efforts include some level of stakeholder involvement. Collaboration between scientists and local decision makers to address complex environmental-policy problems is not new, and emphasis on stakeholder communication and participation in watershed management and policy development has been increasing. We examined the differences in tackling natural resource management issues through community and academic partnerships at the local and regional levels from the views of 3 researcher participants in 2 case studies. We used the engagement framework outlined in van Kerkhoff and Lebel (
10.1899/12-066.1|Dispersal is an essential process in metapopulation and metacommunity dynamics. Most studies of aquatic invertebrate dispersal in streams have focused on in-stream drift of larvae. However, understanding aerial dispersal is important for predicting community assembly in isolated habitats after disturbance or stream restoration. We used artificial pools placed at 3 distances (5, 75, and 250m) from 1 perennial and 1 ephemeral arid-land stream to examine aerial-dispersal dynamics of aquatic invertebrates over a 6-wk period in summer 2009. We also conducted a 2-wk experiment to examine the relationship between daily rainfall and disperser abundance at the perennial site. Sixty-six aquatic invertebrate taxa (including many Coleoptera and Diptera and fewer Hemiptera, Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and noninsect taxa) colonized the artificial pools. They represented  of taxa documented from neighboring perennial streams. Abundance and species richness declined with distance away from both streams. This result suggests that ephemeral stream channels may serve as important aerial dispersal corridors for aquatic invertebrates even when no surface water is present. Mean species richness tripled after 58mm of rain during the 4
10.1086/677176|Changing rainfall patterns resulting from climate change are predicted to influence cyanobacterial blooms and associated production of toxins and other metabolites, but few studies have demonstrated this link. We explored seasonal and interannual trends in 2-methylisoborneol (MIB) concentrations and the correlation of these data with rainfall and hydrologic data from 2000 to 2013. We also conducted a detailed study of cyanobacterial abundances and MIB during 2 hydrologically extreme years, a prolonged drought in 2007 followed by an extremely wet year in 2008. The goal was to assess whether cyanobacterial abundances and explanatory variables that are often correlated with cyanobacterial abundances were useful predictors of MIB concentration. From 2000 to 2013, mean annual rainfall was negatively related to mean annual MIB (
10.1086/681278|The ephemeral rivers in northern Australia break up into a series of waterholes during the long, dry summer season. These in-stream waterholes provide vital habitat for the survival of aquatic biota during this period. We describe how high-time-resolution (20 min) waterhole temperature measurements made in the Flinders and Gilbert Rivers in tropical northern Australia were used to derive thermal frequency curves that show how often waterhole temperature exceeded any given temperature threshold. During the summer period, temperatures near the surfaces of waterholes were often above that suitable for the optimum growth of some tropical fish (31C). At the bottom of waterholes, this exceedance occurred less often, and in turbid waterholes that were stratified, temperatures rarely exceeded this threshold. Temperatures that could be lethal to some fish (34C) also were exceeded at the surface of waterholes, but rarely, if ever, at the bottom of waterholes. An energy-balance model was used to estimate daily mean waterhole temperature with good accuracy (1 K) at all but the sites where wind speed may have been >2 m/s (assumed in the model). The model also was used to predict the effects of climate change on waterhole temperature and the change in exceedance of thermal thresholds. A 2 K climate warming raised waterhole temperature by 1 K. However small this increase might seem, it led to a doubling of the length of time water temperatures were in excess of thresholds around 31C.
10.1086/679300|On riverine flood plains, reorganization by fluvial processes creates and maintains a mosaic of aquatic and riparian landscape elements across a biophysical gradient of disturbance and succession. Across flood plains of gravel-bottom rivers, spring brooks emerge from points of groundwater discharge that may occur in distinct landscape positions. We investigated how ecosystem processes in spring brooks differ spatially across biophysical zones, reflecting how landscape position dictates severity of flood disturbance, allochthonous loading from riparian forests, and inputs from groundwater systems. Between July and October 2011, we quantified aspects of ecosystem structure and function among 6 spring brooks of the Nyack flood plain, Flathead River, Montana. Structural features varied predictably across near-channel (i.e., parafluvial) and late successional (i.e., orthofluvial) biophysical zones. Large wood standing stocks increased >40 (0.199.19 kg/m
10.1899/11-177.1|We developed a series of models using landuse and water-quality variables to predict sediment P release rates under anoxic conditions in reservoirs. We collected sediment cores from 17 reservoirs in the Central Plains region of the USA, and we measured nutrient release rates under anoxic conditions in laboratory incubation studies. We used corresponding landuse and water-quality data from the reservoirs to develop regression models for predicting P release rates. We used variables that relate directly to trophic state, including % cropland in the watershed, which explained the greatest amount of variation in release rates. P release rates tended to be higher in reservoirs that had greater % cropland in the watersheds. We developed additional predictive models using surface total P concentrations and Secchi disk depths. Trophic state was also a good predictor of release rates because more P was released from hypereutrophic reservoirs than from mesotrophic or eutrophic reservoirs. The median release rates for reservoirs representing different trophic state classes (e.g., mesotrophic, eutrophic, and hypereutrophic) were very similar to those previously reported for natural lakes. Our models can be used to predict sediment release rates in individual reservoirs of concern or to screen a large number of reservoirs to help direct resources to those systems that are most vulnerable to internal loading. Models based on landuse characteristics are particularly valuable because these data can be obtained from computer-based assessments and do not require labor-intensive field sampling.
10.1086/676914|The chironomid Benthic Quality Index (BQI) is a widely used metric in assessments of lake status. The BQI is based on 7 indicator taxa, which like most profundal fauna, often occur sporadically in low densities. Hence, a major weakness of the index is that it cannot be calculated when indicator taxa are not captured. Thus, an extension of the BQI that incorporates more macroinvertebrate taxa is desirable. We used 2 statistical approaches (Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Weighted Averaging) to estimate new benthic quality indicator scores for profundal macroinvertebrate taxa and to construct modified BQIs called Profundal Invertebrate Community Metrics (PICMs). We calibrated the PICMs and evaluated their bioassessment performance with macroinvertebrate and environmental data from 735 lake basins in Finland. Both PICMs included 70 taxa and could be calculated for a substantially greater proportion (99.5%) of sites than the original BQI (83.5%). Compared to the BQI, the PICMs were more strongly correlated with whole-community variation and were more predictable from environmental factors independent of human activities in undisturbed reference lakes. PICMs were more specific in identifying undisturbed lakes and more sensitive in discriminating nonreference from reference lakes. The strength of relationships to total P concentration was equal among indices. These results suggest that the extension of BQI to incorporate more taxa will increase generality, accuracy, and representativeness of lake profundal macroinvertebrate assessment.
10.1086/682687|Loss and fragmentation of habitat is a current main cause of biodiversity loss in freshwater habitats. Odonates (dragonflies and damselflies) depend on these habitats to complete their development. Fragmentation may be a particular threat for odonates because it generates a network of small habitat patches within which populations could suffer from isolation and loss of genetic diversity. The southern damselfly
10.1086/682210|Many investigators have described a footprint of global environmental change in macroecological trends across multiple taxa. However, little comparative analysis has been done to evaluate whether some taxa are responding more than others. I tested 2 hypotheses: 1) taxa vary strongly in terms of range shifts and phenological advances in their responses to changing climate, and 2) taxa that shift ranges also advance phenology. I used an initial database of >4 million recorded sightings of UK animal species from 24 orders and found descriptions of range shifts for 612 species and phenological trends for 923 species. I compared the 2 responses for 464 species and found wide variation in the extent to which taxa are responding. Vertebrate taxa were the least well recorded and showed weak or nonsignificant responses. Invertebrates were well recorded and responded strongly in range and phenology, but evidence of an association between range shifts and phenological advances was equivocal. My results show that different taxa are exhibiting different responses to the same environmental change, and that mechanistic and traits-based studies may reveal the causes of that variation. Spatial responses may be constrained by mode of dispersal, and insects and arachnids typically respond strongly, whereas terrestrial vertebrates do not. Phenological responses are complex and may involve species-specific physiological relationships between development and seasonal cues. Use of a model taxon could increase efficiency of monitoring regimes by simplifying monitoring targets and techniques. Potential exists for 1 taxa to be indicators of climate change, whereby the responses of one or a group of species could be used to infer changes at a broader taxonomic scale. I highlight Odonata as a taxon that responds strongly in multiple modalities, is charismatic enough to appeal to citizen scientists, and is an emerging physiological and genetic model.
10.1899/12-093.1|Elevated suspended solids are a widespread stressor of aquatic ecosystems, but their effects on growth and reproduction in freshwater mussels are largely unknown. We fertilized experimental ponds to create a gradient in total suspended solids (TSS) and examined the effects of TSS on growth, nutritional status, reproduction, and clearance rate in
10.1899/12-112.1|The objective of our study was to compare leaf breakdown rates (
10.1086/677056|The theory of ecological stoichiometry holds that heterotrophs are mostly homeostatic and exhibit less variation in body stoichiometry than do autotrophs. Most studies of stream foodweb stoichiometry have been done in low-nutrient environments. Little is known about foodweb stoichiometry in nutrient-rich streams, in which a higher level of stoichiometric homeostasis should be expected, mainly because imbalances between resources and consumers are low and nutrient availability may meet biotic requirements. We analyzed elemental content (C, N, P) and stoichiometric ratios (CN, CP, NP) of basal resources, macroinvertebrates, and fishes in a nutrient-rich Pampean stream and compared these values to those from other studies. We manipulated P and N in a 1-y fertilization experiment to analyze biotic stoichiometric responses to additional nutrient input to this naturally enriched system. Soluble reactive P concentration in the treatment reach was doubled relative to the background concentration. Consumers had lower CP and NP than those in other lotic systems, whereas P content and CP and NP of basal resources were within the ranges observed for other systems. Most components of the trophic web were not affected by fertilization, and only epiphyton, fine benthic organic matter, and 2 macroinvertebrate species (
10.1899/12-051.1|Crayfish are ecologically important in freshwater ecosystems, but few investigators have evaluated landscape patterns of their prevalence and abundance in temperate lakes. We report results of a crayfish survey for 100 lakes in the Puget Sound lowlands of Washington State (USA) serving as a census of the distributions of the signal crayfish
10.1899/11-062.1|Detrital food webs of woodland streams depend on terrestrial litter input and, thus, are susceptible to changes in riparian cover. We assessed effects of litter species richness and quality on decomposition and associated biological communities in temperate deciduous forest and tropical rainforest streams. Three native litter species were incubated in each stream in all combinations (7 litter treatments, 3 richness levels) in coarse- (invertebrate access) and fine-mesh bags (no invertebrate access) and were sampled 5 times over 74 (temperate stream) or 94d (tropical stream). Decomposition, and fungal biomass, sporulation, and species richness were measured for each treatment.
10.1086/677815|Growth and longevity of freshwater mussels (Unionida) are important for defining life-history strategies and assessing vulnerability to human impacts. We used markrecapture and analysis of shell rings to investigate age and growth of the hyriid,
10.1086/679411|Highly productive ecosystems often exhibit high rates of parasitism. Theory and experimental evidence suggest that consumption of high-quality diets by hosts living in these ecosystems facilitates parasite replication, presumably by enhancing the parasites access to nutrients. However, a direct link between parasite replication and the ability to acquire nutrients from host resources has not been shown. We manipulated diet quality and quantity of field-collected infected and uninfected snails (
10.1899/11-073.1|Habitat stability is an important driver of ecological community composition and development. River epilithic biofilms are particularly unstable habitats for the establishment of benthic communities because they are regularly disturbed by floods. Our aim was to determine the influence of habitat instability on meiobenthic organisms. We hypothesized that hydrologic variables are the most important predictors of meiofauna distribution. We monitored epilithic communities (meiofauna and microalgae) with a high sampling frequency during 2 sampling periods with contrasting hydrodynamic patterns in a temperate river (the Garonne, France). Nematodes and rotifers dominated meiofaunal assemblages. The critical flow velocity threshold for their maintenance in the biofilm was 30cm/s, a result suggesting that meiofauna can resist higher flow velocity within the biofilm than within sediments. Nematode distribution was primarily influenced by the duration of undisturbed periods, whereas rotifer distribution was also correlated with the thickness of the biofilm. During the periods after floods, rotifers were faster colonizers than nematodes. Collectively, our results show that flow regime was an essential driver for biofilm community development.
10.1086/682060|Leaf-litter decomposition is driven by microbial and invertebrate communities and is likely to be severely affected by climate change and increased water abstraction and diversion. The occurrence, frequency, and severity of drying events are increasing in rivers worldwide. These events are a major threat to aquatic microbial communities and their contribution to riverine biogeochemical processes. A growing body of evidence suggests a dramatic reduction in litter processing rates and microbial activity during emersion. We hypothesized that leaf-litter decomposition would be less affected by high than low emersion frequency (characterized by longer emersion periods between immersion events, assuming a constant emersion duration). We exposed
10.1086/676998|Insect emergence is a fundamental process in freshwaters. It is a critical life-history stage for aquatic insects and provides an important prey resource for terrestrial and aquatic consumers. Sticky traps are increasingly being used to sample these insects. The most common design consists of an acetate sheet coated with a nondrying adhesive that is attached to a wire frame or cylinder. These traps must be prepared at the deployment site, a process that can be time consuming and difficult given the vagaries of field conditions. Our goals were to develop a sturdy, low-cost sticky trap that could be prepared in advance, rapidly deployed and recovered in the field, and used to estimate the flight direction of insects. We used 150-mm Petri dishes with lids. The dishes can be coated cleanly and consistently with Tangle-Trap
10.1899/12-035.1|Floodplain rivers have been conceptualized as patchwork mosaics of hydrogeomorphic zones that differ in hydrological, physiochemical, and ecological conditions. However, few investigators have empirically examined the extent to which basic ecological properties of large rivers, such as nutrient concentrations, are patchily distributed or the relationship between such distributions and water-mediated connectivity. We used global and local measures of spatial autocorrelation in 5 reaches of the Upper Mississippi River from 19942008 in spring (higher discharge) and summer (lower discharge) to examine distributions of total N (TN), total P (TP), and TNTP for evidence of patchiness. TN was distributed as discrete patches regardless of season, but the patches of TP and TNTP were more distinct during summer low-flow than spring high-flow conditions. The occurrence of patches of high TN, low TP, and high TNTP was highly predictable, generally occurring in backwater, low-velocity (0.1m/s) environments. Patches of low TN, high TP, and low TNTP were less common and less predictable, but were more likely to occur in channels with high current velocities (>0.1m/s) or in impounded areas with low current velocity, but adjacent to channel environments. These patch distributions are consistent with our current understanding of dominant mechanisms of riverine nutrient cycling and were generally consistent across 5 river reaches that spanned nearly the entire length of a large floodplain river. Watershed characteristics ultimately determine nutrient inputs to river systems, but our results support the idea that local geomorphic and hydraulic conditions influence spatial patterns of nutrient delivery and biochemical transformation and create a patchwork mosaic of nutrient distributions within large floodplain rivers.
10.1899/12-176.1|The abundance and distribution of aquatic mesograzers may be regulated by both top-down (i.e., predator-mediated) and bottom-up (i.e., producer-mediated) effects. Under predation by fish, these herbivores may experience differential survivorship among different types of resource patches. Prey may attempt to maximize fitness by integrating information on predation risk and patch quality into foraging decisions. The freshwater amphipod
10.1086/676314|Primary production in lakes occurs in both planktonic (water column) and benthic (bottom) habitats. How whole-lake primary production is distributed between these 2 habitatsreferred to as
10.1899/12-092.1|The use of species traits in basic and applied ecology is expanding rapidly because trait-based approaches hold the promise to increase our mechanistic understanding of biological responses. Such understanding could transform descriptive field studies in community ecology into predictive studies. Currently, however, trait-based approaches often fail to reflect speciesenvironment relationships adequately. The difficulties have been perceived mainly as methodological, but we suggest that the problem is more profound and touches on the fundamentals of ecology and evolution. Selection pressures do not act independently on single traits, but rather, on species whose success in a particular environment is controlled by many interacting traits. Therefore, the adaptive value of a particular trait may differ across species, depending on the other traits possessed by the species and the constraints of its body plan. Because of this context-dependence, trait-based approaches should take into account the way combinations of traits interact and are constrained within a species. We present a new framework in which trade-offs and other interactions between biological traits are taken as a starting point from which to develop a better mechanistic understanding of species occurrences. The framework consists of 4 levels: traits, trait interactions, trait combinations, and life-history strategies, in a hierarchy in which each level provides the building blocks for the next. Researchers can contribute knowledge and insights at each level, and their contributions can be verified or falsified using logic, theory, and empirical data. Such an integrated and transparent framework can help fulfill the promise of traits to transform community ecology into a predictive science.
10.1899/12-014.1|A new species of the genus
10.1086/682686|Human-induced climate change is among the greatest threats to biodiversity, especially when coupled with habitat destruction. For an already water-stressed country like South Africa, changes in temperature and precipitation regimes, coupled with increasing water demands, are likely to lead to losses in biodiversity. Dragonflies are a well-studied surrogate taxon for aspects of freshwater biodiversity. We created species distribution models for 14 dragonfly species, and predicted the changes in species richness, extent of occurrence, and habitat suitability for the years 2050 and 2080 in South Africa, a poorly studied area for range-change predictions for insects. Model predictions for 2 different emissions scenarios suggest that at least 2 species will be lost from the area by 2050, and 3 by 2080. All are widespread Afrotropical species, but with narrow elevation ranges in South Africa. Only 1 species is predicted to benefit greatly from climate change. The remaining species are predicted to persist with reduced extents of occurrences at higher elevations. Most species we studied (12 of 14) thrive in artificial environments. Therefore, to a certain extent, loss in connectivity is unlikely to play a role for these species. However, the 2 stream specialists that occur in the area are particularly vulnerable because of loss of habitat. Species that currently occur farther north in southern Africa and South Africa also are likely to move southward in the future. Thus, species richness may not necessarily decrease, but replacement of species within communities will be significant.
10.1086/680985|Coupled processing of N and C in headwater wetlands can strongly affect downstream water quality. To understand how wetlands affect dissolved N and C concentrations in surface waters and the factors that influence changes in concentration, we measured landscape and physicochemical variables and dissolved N and C concentrations at the in- and outflows of 10 headwater wetlands in a suburban watershed (New Hampshire, USA) over 18 mo. We analyzed changes () in dissolved N and C concentrations (outflow  inflow) with linear mixed-effects models. A pulse in N
10.1899/11-098.1|The importance of understanding the mechanisms underlying insecticide disturbances in natural systems is growing because of increasing global insecticide use. Despite the prevalence of pesticides and the vulnerability of aquatic systems to insecticides, little is understood about the effect of lower concentrations of insecticides (<1ppm) on aquatic community interactions. Whether insecticide effects are generalizable across different aquatic assemblages and trophic levels also is unclear. Furthermore, few investigators have examined the indirect consequences of insecticides beyond the primary consumer level. We examined how a single application of malathion at 3 concentrations (0, 6, or 40g/L) and the presence or absence of zooplankton predators (larval salamanders) affected aquatic communities composed of zooplankton, phytoplankton, periphyton, and 2 geographically distinct amphibian assemblages from Oregon and Pennsylvania. At these concentrations, malathion was directly lethal to certain zooplankton species, causing a shift from cladoceran-dominated assemblages to copepod-dominated assemblages. The decrease in cladoceran abundance released top-down pressure on phytoplankton, allowing an increase in phytoplankton abundance. The increase in phytoplankton was associated with a decrease in periphyton (the major food source of anurans) because of competition between phytoplankton and periphyton. We did not find direct mortality in anurans or salamanders, but the insecticide-mediated reduction in zooplankton indirectly caused a decrease in larval salamander mass. In contrast, anurans exposed to malathion were heavier at metamorphosis. Overall, these results demonstrate that low concentrations of insecticides have indirect consequences on nontarget members of the community across multiple trophic levels, and the indirect insecticide-mediated effects are generalizable across 2 geographically distinct amphibian assemblages.
10.1086/682287|Odonata are valuable biological indicators of freshwater ecosystem integrity and climate change, and the northeastern USA (Virginia to Maine) is a hotspot of odonate diversity and a region of historical and growing threats to freshwater ecosystems. This duality highlights the urgency of developing a comprehensive conservation assessment of the regions 228 resident odonate species. We offer a prioritization framework modified from NatureServes method for assessing conservation status ranks by assigning a single regional vulnerability metric (R-rank) reflecting each species degree of relative extinction risk in the northeastern USA. We calculated the R-rank based on 3 rarity factors (range extent, area of occupancy, and habitat specificity), 1 threat factor (vulnerability of occupied habitats), and 1 trend factor (relative change in range size). We combine this R-rank with the degree of endemicity (% of the species USA and Canadian range that falls within the region) as a proxy for regional responsibility, thereby deriving a list of species of combined vulnerability and regional management responsibility. Overall, 18% of the regions odonate fauna is imperiled (R1 and R2), and peatlands, low-gradient streams and seeps, high-gradient headwaters, and larger rivers that harbor a disproportionate number of these species should be considered as priority habitat types for conservation. We anticipate that our analysis might serve as a model for guiding and standardizing conservation assessments at multiple scales for Odonata and other diverse taxa that have not yet received attention to prioritization.
10.1086/682077|The ecological status of subtropical floodplain lakes is threatened by eutrophication, which can shift lakes from a clear, macrophyte-dominated equilibrium state to a turbid, phytoplankton-dominated state. Such a shift is reflected in their macroinvertebrate assemblages, which may serve as good indicators of long-term changes in such lake ecosystems. We conducted a survey of benthic macroinvertebrates in 20 lakes in the Yangtze floodplain that were disconnected from the river channel to identify invertebrate response patterns along a gradient of eutrophication. Macroinvertebrate assemblages changed in parallel to the observed regime shift of a subgroup of those lakes. The most abundant groups were epiphytic invertebrates (e.g., Bithyniidae) in the macrophyte-dominated lakes and pollution-tolerant invertebrates (e.g., Tubificidae,
10.1899/11-040.1|Stream indicators used to make assessments of biological condition are influenced by many possible sources of variability. To examine this issue, we used multiple-year and multiple-reach diatom, fish, and invertebrate data collected from 20 least-disturbed and 46 developed stream segments between 1993 and 2004 as part of the US Geological Survey National Water Quality Assessment Program. We used a variance-component model to summarize the relative and absolute magnitude of 4 variance components (among-site, among-year, site  year interaction, and residual) in indicator values (observed/expected ratio [O/E] and regional multimetric indices [MMI]) among assemblages and between basin types (least-disturbed and developed). We used multiple-reach samples to evaluate discordance in site assessments of biological condition caused by sampling variability. Overall, patterns in variance partitioning were similar among assemblages and basin types with one exception. Among-site variance dominated the relative contribution to the total variance (6480% of total variance), residual variance (sampling variance) accounted for more variability (826%) than interaction variance (512%), and among-year variance was always negligible (00.2%). The exception to this general pattern was for invertebrates at least-disturbed sites where variability in O/E indicators was partitioned between among-site and residual (sampling) variance (among-site = 36%, residual = 64%). This pattern was not observed for fish and diatom indicators (O/E and regional MMI). We suspect that unexplained sampling variability is what largely remained after the invertebrate indicators (O/E predictive models) had accounted for environmental differences among least-disturbed sites. The influence of sampling variability on discordance of within-site assessments was assemblage or basin-type specific. Discordance among assessments was nearly 2 greater in developed basins (2931%) than in least-disturbed sites (1516%) for invertebrates and diatoms, whereas discordance among assessments based on fish did not differ between basin types (least-disturbed = 16%, developed = 17%). Assessments made using invertebrate and diatom indicators from a single reach disagreed with other samples collected within the same stream segment nearly  of the time in developed basins, compared to  for all other cases.
10.1086/679467|Droughts are unpredictable disturbances characterized in streams by declining flow, reduced habitat availability, and deteriorating abiotic conditions. Such events typically reduce benthic invertebrate taxon richness and modify assemblage composition, but little is known about how hyporheic invertebrate assemblages respond to drought or how these responses relate to changes in benthic assemblages. We hypothesized that taxon richness ( diversity) and variability (as within-site  diversity) in benthic assemblage composition would decline as drought proceeded, whereas concurrent changes in hyporheic assemblages would be lower in this more stable environment. We predicted that benthic assemblage composition between sites would converge as epigean taxa were selectively eliminated, whereas between-site hyporheic  diversity would change little. We sampled benthic and hyporheic invertebrates concurrently from 4 sites along a groundwater-fed stream during the final stages of a severe supraseasonal drought punctuated by a record heat wave. Abiotic conditions in benthic habitats deteriorated as flow declined, but changes were less pronounced in the hyporheic zone. Benthic  diversity declined during drought, whereas hyporheic  diversity changed little. However, benthic within-site  diversity increased as the drought progressed because of localized variation in the abundance of common taxa. Temporal trends in hyporheic  diversity were less consistent. Benthic assemblages at individual sites became more similar, especially during the heat wave, reflecting low  diversity and abundance. Hyporheic assemblages changed markedly because of temporary increases in abundances of epigean and hypogean amphipods. These contrasting responses of benthic and hyporheic assemblages to drought should be recognized when developing management strategies for drought-impacted streams.
10.1086/674526|Elevation gradients allow scientists to observe changes in fauna over a range of abiotic conditions. A variety of trends in aquatic insect diversity patterns across elevation have been reported. However, many of these studies are confounded because they include streams at lower elevations, which are often larger in size and more polluted than their higher-elevation counterparts. Moreover, such studies always relied solely on morphological delineation of taxa, thereby potentially overlooking cryptic diversity. We reduced these limitations by sampling only minimally impacted wadeable streams across an elevation gradient and by combining morphological taxonomy with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding to identify taxa. We collected numerically abundant Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) from single streams at 200-m elevation intervals across >1000-m transects in 3 watersheds draining the eastern slope of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Based on morphology alone, we identified 49 numerically abundant EPT morphospecies across 26 sites. Using DNA barcoding, we found 69 distinct lineages that probably represent distinct species. EPT species richness was highest at mid-elevations, and rates of turnover along elevation transects showed no consistent elevation trend or trend among ecological zones defined by vegetation. -diversity across sites at comparable elevations in different watersheds showed a negative trend with increasing elevation that was marginally significant for DNA barcode taxa (
10.1899/12-005.1|We carried out a set of experiments in a small clear-water lake in northern Sweden during summer 2010 to assess the effect of organic C (OC) released from epipelic algae on pelagic bacterial production (BP). The release rate of OC (dissolved and particulate) from epipelic algae was 45.4ng C m
10.1086/682051|Cenotes (sink holes) are karstic formations characteristic of the Yucatn Peninsula and are the main source of fresh water in the region. Because of their tropical location, they receive high levels of solar radiation and are exposed to high temperatures. However, the effect of these global-change-related variables on phytoplankton in cenotes is unknown. We carried out experiments with phytoplankton communities collected from 2 cenotes differing in their penetration of solar radiation (Leona Vicario [LV]: turbid, Las Mojarras [LM]: clear) to assess the combined effect of solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR; 280400 nm) and increased temperature on their photosystem (PS) II photochemistry. We exposed samples in microcosms to solar radiation (with and without UVR) and 2 temperatures (ambient = 25C and increased by 3C) and analyzed photochemical performance over daily cycles. A significant antagonistic interaction between UVR and temperature in LV caused a combined inhibition of the effective photochemical quantum yield (
10.1086/676634|In ephemeral streams, floods can temporarily connect isolated pools and provide otherwise spatially restricted organisms with the option to stay in or leave a pool. A field survey of the middle-eastern fire salamander (
10.1899/11-048.1|Benthic algae were used to identify reference conditions of springs for bioassessment purposes. Benthic algae and environmental factors were quantified in 70 springs (nonthermal and mostly near-natural) in the southeastern Alps. Spring types were identified by fuzzy clustering of nondiatom, benthic algal assemblages. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) and indicator species analysis (IndVal) were used to identify the most relevant environmental determinants of taxonomic composition in springs and to characterize the ecological traits of key taxa. A total of 120 macro- and microscopic benthic pro- and eukaryotic algae (excluding diatoms) were identified. Cyanobacteria (especially Chroococcales and Oscillatoriales) were strongly prevalent. Seven spring types were identified by fuzzy clustering of nondiatom, benthic algal assemblages. IndVal identified 22 taxa that were significant indicators of spring type, and fuzzy clustering based on environmental preferences identified 18 other important taxa associated with spring type. Spring types differed in environmental features, species richness, and diversity. Mid-to-high altitude, oligotrophic, carbonate flowing springs (rheocrenes) with medium conductivity were the most common spring type and were characterized by shade-tolerant (Chroococcales) or rheophilic (
10.1086/683062|Alpine glacier-fed river hydrology, chemistry, and biology can vary significantly in space and over diurnal to interannual time scales as a function of dynamic inputs of water from snow, ice, and ground water. The sensitivity of biota to these water-source dynamics potentially makes them susceptible to hydrological changes induced by anthropogenic activities, such as flow regulation, but most alpine studies have been focused on intact rivers during summer only. We examined the spatiotemporal dynamics of physicochemical habitat and macroinvertebrate assemblages in a high-altitude (>2000 m) floodplain in the European Alps over an 18-mo period. We present a novel insight into the river system and macroinvertebrate assemblage responses to natural glacier-melt-driven expansioncontraction of unregulated river sites and to intermittent flow pulses caused by hydropower regulation. Mainstem glacier-fed sites had cyclical seasonal dynamics in macroinvertebrate assemblage composition that shifted to be partly reminiscent of groundwater tributaries in winter then back to melt water in the following spring. Significant unimodal relationships were found between glacial influence and macroinvertebrate assemblage density, richness, Simpsons diversity, evenness, and  diversity. These relationships suggest that glacial influence can positively affect biodiversity where glacier melt water mixes with nonglacial water and habitat diversity is maximized. Regulation-induced flow pulses led to inconsistent responses among macroinvertebrates, with no significant effects in summer 2008 but increased density and decreased taxonomic richness in 2009. Assemblage composition was unaffected by reservoir releases despite significant increases in water temperature and discharge at these times. The effects of alpine river management for hydropower production on macroinvertebrate assemblages in this river system appear to be relatively minor, but further studies should be undertaken in other alpine locations to assess the generality of this finding.
10.1086/681623|Traits-based community analyses are receiving increasing attention. However, consistent interpretation of empirical results and ecological understanding in stream ecology are limited by ambiguous terminology. Furthermore, the measurement scales used to analyze trait data, especially ordinal-scale data, are often inappropriately applied. We identify and discuss these shortcomings and offer a solution for an operative and algebraically correct treatment of traits and a unified nomenclature that facilitates direct comparison among traits-based studies. A unified terminology allows for logical translation among existing, alternative trait nomenclatures and should facilitate communication of research findings among stream ecologists and more directly connect stream traits-based research with general ecology.
10.1086/674341|Identifying mechanisms of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) tolerance is an important step in understanding the direct and indirect effects of UVR exposure on aquatic organisms. We used laboratory exposure experiments and a solar exposure experiment to evaluate mechanisms of UVR tolerance in the freshwater snail,
10.1899/12-054.1|Self-purification is a key ecosystem service provided by riverine biota that is particularly important in polluted water bodies serving multiple societal uses, but the extent to which self-purification may be influenced by human uses is unknown. We studied a eutrophic lowland river used for drinking water and recreation to identify the maximal sustainable extent of human use. We recorded filtration by mussels and modeled the disturbance to mussels caused by wave action induced from recreational boating. Filtration was significantly affected by shear stress produced from boats down to a depth of 2.7m. Threshold values for the intensity of wave disturbance ranged from 0.21N/m
10.1899/12-063.1|Three enduring conceptual models make predictions regarding the basal production sources supporting the upper food web of rivers: the River Continuum Concept, the Flood Pulse Concept, and the Riverine Productivity Model. Sources of primary production supporting metazoan biomass might best be understood by using a pluralistic approach that views basal sources as a dependent variable and key physicochemical and hydrological factors as independent variables. Here, I review studies in which chemical markers (stable-isotope and fatty-acid analyses) were used to estimate dominant primary producers contributing to consumer biomass in large rivers and evaluate associated independent variables (e.g., hydrologic regime, turbidity, concentration of dissolved organic matter, floodplain vegetation, lateral connectivity, and upstream impoundment) that have been hypothesized to contribute to variation in basal production sources. My review shows that C
10.1899/11-141.1|Light, nutrient availability, and flow are strong factors controlling the elemental composition and biomass of epilithon in temperate stream ecosystems. However, comparatively little is known about these relationships in tropical streams. We investigated how gradients of light and nutrient availability, seasonality, and habitat influenced epilithon biomass, chlorophyll
10.1086/674983|The factors influencing the habitat requirements and dispersal of juvenile Unionidae (unionids) between post-larval detachment from a fish host and burrowing into the substratum are largely unknown, although bed shear stress (
10.1086/681094|The pressures of a growing population and a fluctuating economy have caused extensive landuse transformations in the Colombian Andes, and >63% of the natural land cover has been replaced by cattle and crop fields. Despite the obvious importance of agriculture as a driver of stream degradation, the specific effects of agriculture on low-order streams of the Andean region are poorly understood. We used aquatic macroinvertebrates as indicators of biological integrity and applied structural equation modeling (SEM) to explore mechanisms through which local agricultural practices degrade headwater streams of the Colombian coffee-growing region. Our results suggest that agriculture affects the aquatic macroinvertebrate community indirectly by increasing the concentration of NH
10.1086/681009|Soil C is a key factor influencing soil health and, by inference, ecosystem condition. In arid and semi-arid regions, soil moisture limits accumulation and decomposition of soil C. On floodplains, soil moisture can come from rainfall events or periodic flooding. The effect of flooding on soil C decomposition has received some attention in the literature but mostly through the study of agricultural systems or mesocosms. Field studies of actual floods are not common. We measured soil C response to a managed flood on a semi-arid lowland river floodplain in southeastern Australia before and after inundation at control (unflooded), floodplain (low hydraulic energy), and flood runner (high hydraulic energy) sites. At control sites, soil C changed little from before to 16 d after the onset of the flood. At flooded sites, most measures of soil C (total soil organic matter [floodplain sites only], permanganate-oxidizable C, persulfate-extractable C, water-extractable C [flood runner sites only], microbial C, and root material) were lower 16 d after than before the flood. However, the activity of key hydrolytic exo-enzymes associated with soil C decomposition did not change. Following the initial decline in soil C at the flooded sites, soil properties remained essentially constant for the remainder of the flood. Upon flood recession, slight increases in C pools occurred at the flood runner site (possibly associated with the formation of debris dams) but not at the floodplain or control sites. The changes in soil C pools after flood recession were at least an order of magnitude lower than those observed at the same location during more extended flooding. We argue that the loss of soil C associated with short-duration floods may adversely affect ecosystem condition of lowland river floodplains. Managed floods should be of long enough duration (months) to promote the growth of submerged and emergent aquatic macrophytes on the floodplain because aquatic macrophyte production is an important source of soil C after flood recession in lowland river floodplains.
10.1086/678700|Permafrost disturbance (shoreline retrogressive thaw slumping [SRTS]) causes solute-rich terrestrial inputs to Arctic tundra lakes. Eight upland tundra lakes (3 undisturbed [U], 5 disturbed [D]) in the Inuvik region of the Northwest Territories, Canada, were sampled to assess the effects of SRTS on benthic invertebrate community structure, abundance, and whether localized SRTS effects in D lakes could be discriminated by comparing samples taken adjacent to (Da) or further from (Do) the disturbance. Community composition and abundance differed between U and D lakes. Macroinvertebrates were more abundant in areas adjacent to SRTS (Da) than in areas away from SRTS (Do), but community composition did not differ between Da and Do areas. Abundance was >2 greater in D than in U lakes. Ostracoda abundance was 4 greater in D than U lakes and 2 higher in Da than Do areas. Nematoda abundance was 10 higher in D than U lakes, whereas Chironomidae abundance was lower in D than U lakes. Bivalvia and Oligochaeta had similar abundance in D and U lakes, and both groups were more abundant in Da than Do areas. Differences in abundance and community composition were related primarily to higher concentrations of Ca
10.1086/682118|Fish and aquatic plants influence aquatic invertebrate assemblages in shallow temperate lakes, but estimating their relative influence is difficult because invertebrates respond to multiple factors operating simultaneously at various temporal and spatial scales. Co-correspondence analysis (CoCA) may prove useful for clarifying community relationships. We sampled assemblages in 104 shallow lakes in 5 study areas across 4 ecological regions of Minnesota, USA. We used CoCA to test for patterns among aquatic invertebrates, submerged plants, and fish. After controlling for influences of fish with CoCA, we used direct gradient analysis to assess influences of study area, lake state (turbid or clear), and watershed size on the abundance of zooplankton and macroinvertebrates. CoCA indicated high co-correspondence between fish and macrophytes across study areas, with weaker associations among zooplankton, macroinvertebrates, and fish. After removing the effects of fish, zooplankton and macroinvertebrates showed different relationships to environmental variables. Lake state and study area explained significant remaining variance in zooplankton, whereas study area and relative abundance of macrophytes explained remaining variance in macroinvertebrates. Among-lake patterns in submerged macrophytes were associated with fish presence and abundance. Invertebrates were related to lake state, fish abundance, and extent of submerged aquatic plants, and patterns differed between zooplankton and macroinvertebrates and among study areas. Species-level relationships among invertebrates, fish, and macrophytes were weaker than community-level patterns described in previous studies. This result suggests that community-scale influences of fish and submerged macrophytes on aquatic invertebrates may be strong and may mask species-level relationships in shallow lakes.
10.1086/683431|We studied the effects of wildfires in southern California on stream algal communities and their responses to nutrient enrichment. The intensity of scouring floods, concentrations of nutrients during ensuing rains (413 increases depending on nutrient), and postflood sediment deposition were greater at sites in burned than in unburned basins (UN sites). Postfire storms reduced algal biomass >10 more at sites in burned than in unburned basins. After the fire and subsequent floods, algal biomass, particularly of
10.1086/681278|The ephemeral rivers in northern Australia break up into a series of waterholes during the long, dry summer season. These in-stream waterholes provide vital habitat for the survival of aquatic biota during this period. We describe how high-time-resolution (20 min) waterhole temperature measurements made in the Flinders and Gilbert Rivers in tropical northern Australia were used to derive thermal frequency curves that show how often waterhole temperature exceeded any given temperature threshold. During the summer period, temperatures near the surfaces of waterholes were often above that suitable for the optimum growth of some tropical fish (31C). At the bottom of waterholes, this exceedance occurred less often, and in turbid waterholes that were stratified, temperatures rarely exceeded this threshold. Temperatures that could be lethal to some fish (34C) also were exceeded at the surface of waterholes, but rarely, if ever, at the bottom of waterholes. An energy-balance model was used to estimate daily mean waterhole temperature with good accuracy (1 K) at all but the sites where wind speed may have been >2 m/s (assumed in the model). The model also was used to predict the effects of climate change on waterhole temperature and the change in exceedance of thermal thresholds. A 2 K climate warming raised waterhole temperature by 1 K. However small this increase might seem, it led to a doubling of the length of time water temperatures were in excess of thresholds around 31C.
10.1086/679300|On riverine flood plains, reorganization by fluvial processes creates and maintains a mosaic of aquatic and riparian landscape elements across a biophysical gradient of disturbance and succession. Across flood plains of gravel-bottom rivers, spring brooks emerge from points of groundwater discharge that may occur in distinct landscape positions. We investigated how ecosystem processes in spring brooks differ spatially across biophysical zones, reflecting how landscape position dictates severity of flood disturbance, allochthonous loading from riparian forests, and inputs from groundwater systems. Between July and October 2011, we quantified aspects of ecosystem structure and function among 6 spring brooks of the Nyack flood plain, Flathead River, Montana. Structural features varied predictably across near-channel (i.e., parafluvial) and late successional (i.e., orthofluvial) biophysical zones. Large wood standing stocks increased >40 (0.199.19 kg/m
10.1899/11-177.1|We developed a series of models using landuse and water-quality variables to predict sediment P release rates under anoxic conditions in reservoirs. We collected sediment cores from 17 reservoirs in the Central Plains region of the USA, and we measured nutrient release rates under anoxic conditions in laboratory incubation studies. We used corresponding landuse and water-quality data from the reservoirs to develop regression models for predicting P release rates. We used variables that relate directly to trophic state, including % cropland in the watershed, which explained the greatest amount of variation in release rates. P release rates tended to be higher in reservoirs that had greater % cropland in the watersheds. We developed additional predictive models using surface total P concentrations and Secchi disk depths. Trophic state was also a good predictor of release rates because more P was released from hypereutrophic reservoirs than from mesotrophic or eutrophic reservoirs. The median release rates for reservoirs representing different trophic state classes (e.g., mesotrophic, eutrophic, and hypereutrophic) were very similar to those previously reported for natural lakes. Our models can be used to predict sediment release rates in individual reservoirs of concern or to screen a large number of reservoirs to help direct resources to those systems that are most vulnerable to internal loading. Models based on landuse characteristics are particularly valuable because these data can be obtained from computer-based assessments and do not require labor-intensive field sampling.
10.1086/676914|The chironomid Benthic Quality Index (BQI) is a widely used metric in assessments of lake status. The BQI is based on 7 indicator taxa, which like most profundal fauna, often occur sporadically in low densities. Hence, a major weakness of the index is that it cannot be calculated when indicator taxa are not captured. Thus, an extension of the BQI that incorporates more macroinvertebrate taxa is desirable. We used 2 statistical approaches (Detrended Correspondence Analysis and Weighted Averaging) to estimate new benthic quality indicator scores for profundal macroinvertebrate taxa and to construct modified BQIs called Profundal Invertebrate Community Metrics (PICMs). We calibrated the PICMs and evaluated their bioassessment performance with macroinvertebrate and environmental data from 735 lake basins in Finland. Both PICMs included 70 taxa and could be calculated for a substantially greater proportion (99.5%) of sites than the original BQI (83.5%). Compared to the BQI, the PICMs were more strongly correlated with whole-community variation and were more predictable from environmental factors independent of human activities in undisturbed reference lakes. PICMs were more specific in identifying undisturbed lakes and more sensitive in discriminating nonreference from reference lakes. The strength of relationships to total P concentration was equal among indices. These results suggest that the extension of BQI to incorporate more taxa will increase generality, accuracy, and representativeness of lake profundal macroinvertebrate assessment.
10.1086/682687|Loss and fragmentation of habitat is a current main cause of biodiversity loss in freshwater habitats. Odonates (dragonflies and damselflies) depend on these habitats to complete their development. Fragmentation may be a particular threat for odonates because it generates a network of small habitat patches within which populations could suffer from isolation and loss of genetic diversity. The southern damselfly
10.1086/682210|Many investigators have described a footprint of global environmental change in macroecological trends across multiple taxa. However, little comparative analysis has been done to evaluate whether some taxa are responding more than others. I tested 2 hypotheses: 1) taxa vary strongly in terms of range shifts and phenological advances in their responses to changing climate, and 2) taxa that shift ranges also advance phenology. I used an initial database of >4 million recorded sightings of UK animal species from 24 orders and found descriptions of range shifts for 612 species and phenological trends for 923 species. I compared the 2 responses for 464 species and found wide variation in the extent to which taxa are responding. Vertebrate taxa were the least well recorded and showed weak or nonsignificant responses. Invertebrates were well recorded and responded strongly in range and phenology, but evidence of an association between range shifts and phenological advances was equivocal. My results show that different taxa are exhibiting different responses to the same environmental change, and that mechanistic and traits-based studies may reveal the causes of that variation. Spatial responses may be constrained by mode of dispersal, and insects and arachnids typically respond strongly, whereas terrestrial vertebrates do not. Phenological responses are complex and may involve species-specific physiological relationships between development and seasonal cues. Use of a model taxon could increase efficiency of monitoring regimes by simplifying monitoring targets and techniques. Potential exists for 1 taxa to be indicators of climate change, whereby the responses of one or a group of species could be used to infer changes at a broader taxonomic scale. I highlight Odonata as a taxon that responds strongly in multiple modalities, is charismatic enough to appeal to citizen scientists, and is an emerging physiological and genetic model.
10.1899/12-093.1|Elevated suspended solids are a widespread stressor of aquatic ecosystems, but their effects on growth and reproduction in freshwater mussels are largely unknown. We fertilized experimental ponds to create a gradient in total suspended solids (TSS) and examined the effects of TSS on growth, nutritional status, reproduction, and clearance rate in
10.1899/12-112.1|The objective of our study was to compare leaf breakdown rates (
10.1086/677056|The theory of ecological stoichiometry holds that heterotrophs are mostly homeostatic and exhibit less variation in body stoichiometry than do autotrophs. Most studies of stream foodweb stoichiometry have been done in low-nutrient environments. Little is known about foodweb stoichiometry in nutrient-rich streams, in which a higher level of stoichiometric homeostasis should be expected, mainly because imbalances between resources and consumers are low and nutrient availability may meet biotic requirements. We analyzed elemental content (C, N, P) and stoichiometric ratios (CN, CP, NP) of basal resources, macroinvertebrates, and fishes in a nutrient-rich Pampean stream and compared these values to those from other studies. We manipulated P and N in a 1-y fertilization experiment to analyze biotic stoichiometric responses to additional nutrient input to this naturally enriched system. Soluble reactive P concentration in the treatment reach was doubled relative to the background concentration. Consumers had lower CP and NP than those in other lotic systems, whereas P content and CP and NP of basal resources were within the ranges observed for other systems. Most components of the trophic web were not affected by fertilization, and only epiphyton, fine benthic organic matter, and 2 macroinvertebrate species (
10.1899/12-051.1|Crayfish are ecologically important in freshwater ecosystems, but few investigators have evaluated landscape patterns of their prevalence and abundance in temperate lakes. We report results of a crayfish survey for 100 lakes in the Puget Sound lowlands of Washington State (USA) serving as a census of the distributions of the signal crayfish
10.1899/11-062.1|Detrital food webs of woodland streams depend on terrestrial litter input and, thus, are susceptible to changes in riparian cover. We assessed effects of litter species richness and quality on decomposition and associated biological communities in temperate deciduous forest and tropical rainforest streams. Three native litter species were incubated in each stream in all combinations (7 litter treatments, 3 richness levels) in coarse- (invertebrate access) and fine-mesh bags (no invertebrate access) and were sampled 5 times over 74 (temperate stream) or 94d (tropical stream). Decomposition, and fungal biomass, sporulation, and species richness were measured for each treatment.
10.1086/677815|Growth and longevity of freshwater mussels (Unionida) are important for defining life-history strategies and assessing vulnerability to human impacts. We used markrecapture and analysis of shell rings to investigate age and growth of the hyriid,
10.1086/679411|Highly productive ecosystems often exhibit high rates of parasitism. Theory and experimental evidence suggest that consumption of high-quality diets by hosts living in these ecosystems facilitates parasite replication, presumably by enhancing the parasites access to nutrients. However, a direct link between parasite replication and the ability to acquire nutrients from host resources has not been shown. We manipulated diet quality and quantity of field-collected infected and uninfected snails (
10.1899/11-073.1|Habitat stability is an important driver of ecological community composition and development. River epilithic biofilms are particularly unstable habitats for the establishment of benthic communities because they are regularly disturbed by floods. Our aim was to determine the influence of habitat instability on meiobenthic organisms. We hypothesized that hydrologic variables are the most important predictors of meiofauna distribution. We monitored epilithic communities (meiofauna and microalgae) with a high sampling frequency during 2 sampling periods with contrasting hydrodynamic patterns in a temperate river (the Garonne, France). Nematodes and rotifers dominated meiofaunal assemblages. The critical flow velocity threshold for their maintenance in the biofilm was 30cm/s, a result suggesting that meiofauna can resist higher flow velocity within the biofilm than within sediments. Nematode distribution was primarily influenced by the duration of undisturbed periods, whereas rotifer distribution was also correlated with the thickness of the biofilm. During the periods after floods, rotifers were faster colonizers than nematodes. Collectively, our results show that flow regime was an essential driver for biofilm community development.
10.1086/682060|Leaf-litter decomposition is driven by microbial and invertebrate communities and is likely to be severely affected by climate change and increased water abstraction and diversion. The occurrence, frequency, and severity of drying events are increasing in rivers worldwide. These events are a major threat to aquatic microbial communities and their contribution to riverine biogeochemical processes. A growing body of evidence suggests a dramatic reduction in litter processing rates and microbial activity during emersion. We hypothesized that leaf-litter decomposition would be less affected by high than low emersion frequency (characterized by longer emersion periods between immersion events, assuming a constant emersion duration). We exposed
10.1086/676998|Insect emergence is a fundamental process in freshwaters. It is a critical life-history stage for aquatic insects and provides an important prey resource for terrestrial and aquatic consumers. Sticky traps are increasingly being used to sample these insects. The most common design consists of an acetate sheet coated with a nondrying adhesive that is attached to a wire frame or cylinder. These traps must be prepared at the deployment site, a process that can be time consuming and difficult given the vagaries of field conditions. Our goals were to develop a sturdy, low-cost sticky trap that could be prepared in advance, rapidly deployed and recovered in the field, and used to estimate the flight direction of insects. We used 150-mm Petri dishes with lids. The dishes can be coated cleanly and consistently with Tangle-Trap
10.1899/12-035.1|Floodplain rivers have been conceptualized as patchwork mosaics of hydrogeomorphic zones that differ in hydrological, physiochemical, and ecological conditions. However, few investigators have empirically examined the extent to which basic ecological properties of large rivers, such as nutrient concentrations, are patchily distributed or the relationship between such distributions and water-mediated connectivity. We used global and local measures of spatial autocorrelation in 5 reaches of the Upper Mississippi River from 19942008 in spring (higher discharge) and summer (lower discharge) to examine distributions of total N (TN), total P (TP), and TNTP for evidence of patchiness. TN was distributed as discrete patches regardless of season, but the patches of TP and TNTP were more distinct during summer low-flow than spring high-flow conditions. The occurrence of patches of high TN, low TP, and high TNTP was highly predictable, generally occurring in backwater, low-velocity (0.1m/s) environments. Patches of low TN, high TP, and low TNTP were less common and less predictable, but were more likely to occur in channels with high current velocities (>0.1m/s) or in impounded areas with low current velocity, but adjacent to channel environments. These patch distributions are consistent with our current understanding of dominant mechanisms of riverine nutrient cycling and were generally consistent across 5 river reaches that spanned nearly the entire length of a large floodplain river. Watershed characteristics ultimately determine nutrient inputs to river systems, but our results support the idea that local geomorphic and hydraulic conditions influence spatial patterns of nutrient delivery and biochemical transformation and create a patchwork mosaic of nutrient distributions within large floodplain rivers.
10.1899/12-176.1|The abundance and distribution of aquatic mesograzers may be regulated by both top-down (i.e., predator-mediated) and bottom-up (i.e., producer-mediated) effects. Under predation by fish, these herbivores may experience differential survivorship among different types of resource patches. Prey may attempt to maximize fitness by integrating information on predation risk and patch quality into foraging decisions. The freshwater amphipod
10.1086/676314|Primary production in lakes occurs in both planktonic (water column) and benthic (bottom) habitats. How whole-lake primary production is distributed between these 2 habitatsreferred to as
10.1899/12-092.1|The use of species traits in basic and applied ecology is expanding rapidly because trait-based approaches hold the promise to increase our mechanistic understanding of biological responses. Such understanding could transform descriptive field studies in community ecology into predictive studies. Currently, however, trait-based approaches often fail to reflect speciesenvironment relationships adequately. The difficulties have been perceived mainly as methodological, but we suggest that the problem is more profound and touches on the fundamentals of ecology and evolution. Selection pressures do not act independently on single traits, but rather, on species whose success in a particular environment is controlled by many interacting traits. Therefore, the adaptive value of a particular trait may differ across species, depending on the other traits possessed by the species and the constraints of its body plan. Because of this context-dependence, trait-based approaches should take into account the way combinations of traits interact and are constrained within a species. We present a new framework in which trade-offs and other interactions between biological traits are taken as a starting point from which to develop a better mechanistic understanding of species occurrences. The framework consists of 4 levels: traits, trait interactions, trait combinations, and life-history strategies, in a hierarchy in which each level provides the building blocks for the next. Researchers can contribute knowledge and insights at each level, and their contributions can be verified or falsified using logic, theory, and empirical data. Such an integrated and transparent framework can help fulfill the promise of traits to transform community ecology into a predictive science.
10.1899/12-014.1|A new species of the genus
10.1086/682686|Human-induced climate change is among the greatest threats to biodiversity, especially when coupled with habitat destruction. For an already water-stressed country like South Africa, changes in temperature and precipitation regimes, coupled with increasing water demands, are likely to lead to losses in biodiversity. Dragonflies are a well-studied surrogate taxon for aspects of freshwater biodiversity. We created species distribution models for 14 dragonfly species, and predicted the changes in species richness, extent of occurrence, and habitat suitability for the years 2050 and 2080 in South Africa, a poorly studied area for range-change predictions for insects. Model predictions for 2 different emissions scenarios suggest that at least 2 species will be lost from the area by 2050, and 3 by 2080. All are widespread Afrotropical species, but with narrow elevation ranges in South Africa. Only 1 species is predicted to benefit greatly from climate change. The remaining species are predicted to persist with reduced extents of occurrences at higher elevations. Most species we studied (12 of 14) thrive in artificial environments. Therefore, to a certain extent, loss in connectivity is unlikely to play a role for these species. However, the 2 stream specialists that occur in the area are particularly vulnerable because of loss of habitat. Species that currently occur farther north in southern Africa and South Africa also are likely to move southward in the future. Thus, species richness may not necessarily decrease, but replacement of species within communities will be significant.
10.1086/680985|Coupled processing of N and C in headwater wetlands can strongly affect downstream water quality. To understand how wetlands affect dissolved N and C concentrations in surface waters and the factors that influence changes in concentration, we measured landscape and physicochemical variables and dissolved N and C concentrations at the in- and outflows of 10 headwater wetlands in a suburban watershed (New Hampshire, USA) over 18 mo. We analyzed changes () in dissolved N and C concentrations (outflow  inflow) with linear mixed-effects models. A pulse in N
10.1899/11-098.1|The importance of understanding the mechanisms underlying insecticide disturbances in natural systems is growing because of increasing global insecticide use. Despite the prevalence of pesticides and the vulnerability of aquatic systems to insecticides, little is understood about the effect of lower concentrations of insecticides (<1ppm) on aquatic community interactions. Whether insecticide effects are generalizable across different aquatic assemblages and trophic levels also is unclear. Furthermore, few investigators have examined the indirect consequences of insecticides beyond the primary consumer level. We examined how a single application of malathion at 3 concentrations (0, 6, or 40g/L) and the presence or absence of zooplankton predators (larval salamanders) affected aquatic communities composed of zooplankton, phytoplankton, periphyton, and 2 geographically distinct amphibian assemblages from Oregon and Pennsylvania. At these concentrations, malathion was directly lethal to certain zooplankton species, causing a shift from cladoceran-dominated assemblages to copepod-dominated assemblages. The decrease in cladoceran abundance released top-down pressure on phytoplankton, allowing an increase in phytoplankton abundance. The increase in phytoplankton was associated with a decrease in periphyton (the major food source of anurans) because of competition between phytoplankton and periphyton. We did not find direct mortality in anurans or salamanders, but the insecticide-mediated reduction in zooplankton indirectly caused a decrease in larval salamander mass. In contrast, anurans exposed to malathion were heavier at metamorphosis. Overall, these results demonstrate that low concentrations of insecticides have indirect consequences on nontarget members of the community across multiple trophic levels, and the indirect insecticide-mediated effects are generalizable across 2 geographically distinct amphibian assemblages.
10.1086/682287|Odonata are valuable biological indicators of freshwater ecosystem integrity and climate change, and the northeastern USA (Virginia to Maine) is a hotspot of odonate diversity and a region of historical and growing threats to freshwater ecosystems. This duality highlights the urgency of developing a comprehensive conservation assessment of the regions 228 resident odonate species. We offer a prioritization framework modified from NatureServes method for assessing conservation status ranks by assigning a single regional vulnerability metric (R-rank) reflecting each species degree of relative extinction risk in the northeastern USA. We calculated the R-rank based on 3 rarity factors (range extent, area of occupancy, and habitat specificity), 1 threat factor (vulnerability of occupied habitats), and 1 trend factor (relative change in range size). We combine this R-rank with the degree of endemicity (% of the species USA and Canadian range that falls within the region) as a proxy for regional responsibility, thereby deriving a list of species of combined vulnerability and regional management responsibility. Overall, 18% of the regions odonate fauna is imperiled (R1 and R2), and peatlands, low-gradient streams and seeps, high-gradient headwaters, and larger rivers that harbor a disproportionate number of these species should be considered as priority habitat types for conservation. We anticipate that our analysis might serve as a model for guiding and standardizing conservation assessments at multiple scales for Odonata and other diverse taxa that have not yet received attention to prioritization.
10.1086/682077|The ecological status of subtropical floodplain lakes is threatened by eutrophication, which can shift lakes from a clear, macrophyte-dominated equilibrium state to a turbid, phytoplankton-dominated state. Such a shift is reflected in their macroinvertebrate assemblages, which may serve as good indicators of long-term changes in such lake ecosystems. We conducted a survey of benthic macroinvertebrates in 20 lakes in the Yangtze floodplain that were disconnected from the river channel to identify invertebrate response patterns along a gradient of eutrophication. Macroinvertebrate assemblages changed in parallel to the observed regime shift of a subgroup of those lakes. The most abundant groups were epiphytic invertebrates (e.g., Bithyniidae) in the macrophyte-dominated lakes and pollution-tolerant invertebrates (e.g., Tubificidae,
10.1899/11-040.1|Stream indicators used to make assessments of biological condition are influenced by many possible sources of variability. To examine this issue, we used multiple-year and multiple-reach diatom, fish, and invertebrate data collected from 20 least-disturbed and 46 developed stream segments between 1993 and 2004 as part of the US Geological Survey National Water Quality Assessment Program. We used a variance-component model to summarize the relative and absolute magnitude of 4 variance components (among-site, among-year, site  year interaction, and residual) in indicator values (observed/expected ratio [O/E] and regional multimetric indices [MMI]) among assemblages and between basin types (least-disturbed and developed). We used multiple-reach samples to evaluate discordance in site assessments of biological condition caused by sampling variability. Overall, patterns in variance partitioning were similar among assemblages and basin types with one exception. Among-site variance dominated the relative contribution to the total variance (6480% of total variance), residual variance (sampling variance) accounted for more variability (826%) than interaction variance (512%), and among-year variance was always negligible (00.2%). The exception to this general pattern was for invertebrates at least-disturbed sites where variability in O/E indicators was partitioned between among-site and residual (sampling) variance (among-site = 36%, residual = 64%). This pattern was not observed for fish and diatom indicators (O/E and regional MMI). We suspect that unexplained sampling variability is what largely remained after the invertebrate indicators (O/E predictive models) had accounted for environmental differences among least-disturbed sites. The influence of sampling variability on discordance of within-site assessments was assemblage or basin-type specific. Discordance among assessments was nearly 2 greater in developed basins (2931%) than in least-disturbed sites (1516%) for invertebrates and diatoms, whereas discordance among assessments based on fish did not differ between basin types (least-disturbed = 16%, developed = 17%). Assessments made using invertebrate and diatom indicators from a single reach disagreed with other samples collected within the same stream segment nearly  of the time in developed basins, compared to  for all other cases.
10.1086/679467|Droughts are unpredictable disturbances characterized in streams by declining flow, reduced habitat availability, and deteriorating abiotic conditions. Such events typically reduce benthic invertebrate taxon richness and modify assemblage composition, but little is known about how hyporheic invertebrate assemblages respond to drought or how these responses relate to changes in benthic assemblages. We hypothesized that taxon richness ( diversity) and variability (as within-site  diversity) in benthic assemblage composition would decline as drought proceeded, whereas concurrent changes in hyporheic assemblages would be lower in this more stable environment. We predicted that benthic assemblage composition between sites would converge as epigean taxa were selectively eliminated, whereas between-site hyporheic  diversity would change little. We sampled benthic and hyporheic invertebrates concurrently from 4 sites along a groundwater-fed stream during the final stages of a severe supraseasonal drought punctuated by a record heat wave. Abiotic conditions in benthic habitats deteriorated as flow declined, but changes were less pronounced in the hyporheic zone. Benthic  diversity declined during drought, whereas hyporheic  diversity changed little. However, benthic within-site  diversity increased as the drought progressed because of localized variation in the abundance of common taxa. Temporal trends in hyporheic  diversity were less consistent. Benthic assemblages at individual sites became more similar, especially during the heat wave, reflecting low  diversity and abundance. Hyporheic assemblages changed markedly because of temporary increases in abundances of epigean and hypogean amphipods. These contrasting responses of benthic and hyporheic assemblages to drought should be recognized when developing management strategies for drought-impacted streams.
10.1086/674526|Elevation gradients allow scientists to observe changes in fauna over a range of abiotic conditions. A variety of trends in aquatic insect diversity patterns across elevation have been reported. However, many of these studies are confounded because they include streams at lower elevations, which are often larger in size and more polluted than their higher-elevation counterparts. Moreover, such studies always relied solely on morphological delineation of taxa, thereby potentially overlooking cryptic diversity. We reduced these limitations by sampling only minimally impacted wadeable streams across an elevation gradient and by combining morphological taxonomy with deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding to identify taxa. We collected numerically abundant Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) from single streams at 200-m elevation intervals across >1000-m transects in 3 watersheds draining the eastern slope of the Colorado Rocky Mountains. Based on morphology alone, we identified 49 numerically abundant EPT morphospecies across 26 sites. Using DNA barcoding, we found 69 distinct lineages that probably represent distinct species. EPT species richness was highest at mid-elevations, and rates of turnover along elevation transects showed no consistent elevation trend or trend among ecological zones defined by vegetation. -diversity across sites at comparable elevations in different watersheds showed a negative trend with increasing elevation that was marginally significant for DNA barcode taxa (
10.1899/12-005.1|We carried out a set of experiments in a small clear-water lake in northern Sweden during summer 2010 to assess the effect of organic C (OC) released from epipelic algae on pelagic bacterial production (BP). The release rate of OC (dissolved and particulate) from epipelic algae was 45.4ng C m
10.1086/682051|Cenotes (sink holes) are karstic formations characteristic of the Yucatn Peninsula and are the main source of fresh water in the region. Because of their tropical location, they receive high levels of solar radiation and are exposed to high temperatures. However, the effect of these global-change-related variables on phytoplankton in cenotes is unknown. We carried out experiments with phytoplankton communities collected from 2 cenotes differing in their penetration of solar radiation (Leona Vicario [LV]: turbid, Las Mojarras [LM]: clear) to assess the combined effect of solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR; 280400 nm) and increased temperature on their photosystem (PS) II photochemistry. We exposed samples in microcosms to solar radiation (with and without UVR) and 2 temperatures (ambient = 25C and increased by 3C) and analyzed photochemical performance over daily cycles. A significant antagonistic interaction between UVR and temperature in LV caused a combined inhibition of the effective photochemical quantum yield (
10.1086/676634|In ephemeral streams, floods can temporarily connect isolated pools and provide otherwise spatially restricted organisms with the option to stay in or leave a pool. A field survey of the middle-eastern fire salamander (
10.1899/11-048.1|Benthic algae were used to identify reference conditions of springs for bioassessment purposes. Benthic algae and environmental factors were quantified in 70 springs (nonthermal and mostly near-natural) in the southeastern Alps. Spring types were identified by fuzzy clustering of nondiatom, benthic algal assemblages. Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) and indicator species analysis (IndVal) were used to identify the most relevant environmental determinants of taxonomic composition in springs and to characterize the ecological traits of key taxa. A total of 120 macro- and microscopic benthic pro- and eukaryotic algae (excluding diatoms) were identified. Cyanobacteria (especially Chroococcales and Oscillatoriales) were strongly prevalent. Seven spring types were identified by fuzzy clustering of nondiatom, benthic algal assemblages. IndVal identified 22 taxa that were significant indicators of spring type, and fuzzy clustering based on environmental preferences identified 18 other important taxa associated with spring type. Spring types differed in environmental features, species richness, and diversity. Mid-to-high altitude, oligotrophic, carbonate flowing springs (rheocrenes) with medium conductivity were the most common spring type and were characterized by shade-tolerant (Chroococcales) or rheophilic (
10.1086/683062|Alpine glacier-fed river hydrology, chemistry, and biology can vary significantly in space and over diurnal to interannual time scales as a function of dynamic inputs of water from snow, ice, and ground water. The sensitivity of biota to these water-source dynamics potentially makes them susceptible to hydrological changes induced by anthropogenic activities, such as flow regulation, but most alpine studies have been focused on intact rivers during summer only. We examined the spatiotemporal dynamics of physicochemical habitat and macroinvertebrate assemblages in a high-altitude (>2000 m) floodplain in the European Alps over an 18-mo period. We present a novel insight into the river system and macroinvertebrate assemblage responses to natural glacier-melt-driven expansioncontraction of unregulated river sites and to intermittent flow pulses caused by hydropower regulation. Mainstem glacier-fed sites had cyclical seasonal dynamics in macroinvertebrate assemblage composition that shifted to be partly reminiscent of groundwater tributaries in winter then back to melt water in the following spring. Significant unimodal relationships were found between glacial influence and macroinvertebrate assemblage density, richness, Simpsons diversity, evenness, and  diversity. These relationships suggest that glacial influence can positively affect biodiversity where glacier melt water mixes with nonglacial water and habitat diversity is maximized. Regulation-induced flow pulses led to inconsistent responses among macroinvertebrates, with no significant effects in summer 2008 but increased density and decreased taxonomic richness in 2009. Assemblage composition was unaffected by reservoir releases despite significant increases in water temperature and discharge at these times. The effects of alpine river management for hydropower production on macroinvertebrate assemblages in this river system appear to be relatively minor, but further studies should be undertaken in other alpine locations to assess the generality of this finding.
10.1086/681623|Traits-based community analyses are receiving increasing attention. However, consistent interpretation of empirical results and ecological understanding in stream ecology are limited by ambiguous terminology. Furthermore, the measurement scales used to analyze trait data, especially ordinal-scale data, are often inappropriately applied. We identify and discuss these shortcomings and offer a solution for an operative and algebraically correct treatment of traits and a unified nomenclature that facilitates direct comparison among traits-based studies. A unified terminology allows for logical translation among existing, alternative trait nomenclatures and should facilitate communication of research findings among stream ecologists and more directly connect stream traits-based research with general ecology.
10.1086/674341|Identifying mechanisms of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) tolerance is an important step in understanding the direct and indirect effects of UVR exposure on aquatic organisms. We used laboratory exposure experiments and a solar exposure experiment to evaluate mechanisms of UVR tolerance in the freshwater snail,
10.1899/12-054.1|Self-purification is a key ecosystem service provided by riverine biota that is particularly important in polluted water bodies serving multiple societal uses, but the extent to which self-purification may be influenced by human uses is unknown. We studied a eutrophic lowland river used for drinking water and recreation to identify the maximal sustainable extent of human use. We recorded filtration by mussels and modeled the disturbance to mussels caused by wave action induced from recreational boating. Filtration was significantly affected by shear stress produced from boats down to a depth of 2.7m. Threshold values for the intensity of wave disturbance ranged from 0.21N/m
10.1899/12-063.1|Three enduring conceptual models make predictions regarding the basal production sources supporting the upper food web of rivers: the River Continuum Concept, the Flood Pulse Concept, and the Riverine Productivity Model. Sources of primary production supporting metazoan biomass might best be understood by using a pluralistic approach that views basal sources as a dependent variable and key physicochemical and hydrological factors as independent variables. Here, I review studies in which chemical markers (stable-isotope and fatty-acid analyses) were used to estimate dominant primary producers contributing to consumer biomass in large rivers and evaluate associated independent variables (e.g., hydrologic regime, turbidity, concentration of dissolved organic matter, floodplain vegetation, lateral connectivity, and upstream impoundment) that have been hypothesized to contribute to variation in basal production sources. My review shows that C
10.1899/11-141.1|Light, nutrient availability, and flow are strong factors controlling the elemental composition and biomass of epilithon in temperate stream ecosystems. However, comparatively little is known about these relationships in tropical streams. We investigated how gradients of light and nutrient availability, seasonality, and habitat influenced epilithon biomass, chlorophyll
10.1086/674983|The factors influencing the habitat requirements and dispersal of juvenile Unionidae (unionids) between post-larval detachment from a fish host and burrowing into the substratum are largely unknown, although bed shear stress (
10.1086/681094|The pressures of a growing population and a fluctuating economy have caused extensive landuse transformations in the Colombian Andes, and >63% of the natural land cover has been replaced by cattle and crop fields. Despite the obvious importance of agriculture as a driver of stream degradation, the specific effects of agriculture on low-order streams of the Andean region are poorly understood. We used aquatic macroinvertebrates as indicators of biological integrity and applied structural equation modeling (SEM) to explore mechanisms through which local agricultural practices degrade headwater streams of the Colombian coffee-growing region. Our results suggest that agriculture affects the aquatic macroinvertebrate community indirectly by increasing the concentration of NH
10.1086/681009|Soil C is a key factor influencing soil health and, by inference, ecosystem condition. In arid and semi-arid regions, soil moisture limits accumulation and decomposition of soil C. On floodplains, soil moisture can come from rainfall events or periodic flooding. The effect of flooding on soil C decomposition has received some attention in the literature but mostly through the study of agricultural systems or mesocosms. Field studies of actual floods are not common. We measured soil C response to a managed flood on a semi-arid lowland river floodplain in southeastern Australia before and after inundation at control (unflooded), floodplain (low hydraulic energy), and flood runner (high hydraulic energy) sites. At control sites, soil C changed little from before to 16 d after the onset of the flood. At flooded sites, most measures of soil C (total soil organic matter [floodplain sites only], permanganate-oxidizable C, persulfate-extractable C, water-extractable C [flood runner sites only], microbial C, and root material) were lower 16 d after than before the flood. However, the activity of key hydrolytic exo-enzymes associated with soil C decomposition did not change. Following the initial decline in soil C at the flooded sites, soil properties remained essentially constant for the remainder of the flood. Upon flood recession, slight increases in C pools occurred at the flood runner site (possibly associated with the formation of debris dams) but not at the floodplain or control sites. The changes in soil C pools after flood recession were at least an order of magnitude lower than those observed at the same location during more extended flooding. We argue that the loss of soil C associated with short-duration floods may adversely affect ecosystem condition of lowland river floodplains. Managed floods should be of long enough duration (months) to promote the growth of submerged and emergent aquatic macrophytes on the floodplain because aquatic macrophyte production is an important source of soil C after flood recession in lowland river floodplains.
10.1086/678700|Permafrost disturbance (shoreline retrogressive thaw slumping [SRTS]) causes solute-rich terrestrial inputs to Arctic tundra lakes. Eight upland tundra lakes (3 undisturbed [U], 5 disturbed [D]) in the Inuvik region of the Northwest Territories, Canada, were sampled to assess the effects of SRTS on benthic invertebrate community structure, abundance, and whether localized SRTS effects in D lakes could be discriminated by comparing samples taken adjacent to (Da) or further from (Do) the disturbance. Community composition and abundance differed between U and D lakes. Macroinvertebrates were more abundant in areas adjacent to SRTS (Da) than in areas away from SRTS (Do), but community composition did not differ between Da and Do areas. Abundance was >2 greater in D than in U lakes. Ostracoda abundance was 4 greater in D than U lakes and 2 higher in Da than Do areas. Nematoda abundance was 10 higher in D than U lakes, whereas Chironomidae abundance was lower in D than U lakes. Bivalvia and Oligochaeta had similar abundance in D and U lakes, and both groups were more abundant in Da than Do areas. Differences in abundance and community composition were related primarily to higher concentrations of Ca
10.1086/682118|Fish and aquatic plants influence aquatic invertebrate assemblages in shallow temperate lakes, but estimating their relative influence is difficult because invertebrates respond to multiple factors operating simultaneously at various temporal and spatial scales. Co-correspondence analysis (CoCA) may prove useful for clarifying community relationships. We sampled assemblages in 104 shallow lakes in 5 study areas across 4 ecological regions of Minnesota, USA. We used CoCA to test for patterns among aquatic invertebrates, submerged plants, and fish. After controlling for influences of fish with CoCA, we used direct gradient analysis to assess influences of study area, lake state (turbid or clear), and watershed size on the abundance of zooplankton and macroinvertebrates. CoCA indicated high co-correspondence between fish and macrophytes across study areas, with weaker associations among zooplankton, macroinvertebrates, and fish. After removing the effects of fish, zooplankton and macroinvertebrates showed different relationships to environmental variables. Lake state and study area explained significant remaining variance in zooplankton, whereas study area and relative abundance of macrophytes explained remaining variance in macroinvertebrates. Among-lake patterns in submerged macrophytes were associated with fish presence and abundance. Invertebrates were related to lake state, fish abundance, and extent of submerged aquatic plants, and patterns differed between zooplankton and macroinvertebrates and among study areas. Species-level relationships among invertebrates, fish, and macrophytes were weaker than community-level patterns described in previous studies. This result suggests that community-scale influences of fish and submerged macrophytes on aquatic invertebrates may be strong and may mask species-level relationships in shallow lakes.
10.1086/683431|We studied the effects of wildfires in southern California on stream algal communities and their responses to nutrient enrichment. The intensity of scouring floods, concentrations of nutrients during ensuing rains (413 increases depending on nutrient), and postflood sediment deposition were greater at sites in burned than in unburned basins (UN sites). Postfire storms reduced algal biomass >10 more at sites in burned than in unburned basins. After the fire and subsequent floods, algal biomass, particularly of
