10.2307/3226868|The mouthparts (labrum, mandibles, and maxillae) of three litter-dwelling collembolan species-Orchesella hexfasciata (Entomobryidae), Isotoma notabilis (Isotomidae), and Sminthurinus henshawi (Sminthuridae)-are described, using both light and scanning electron microscopy. The right molar plate of all three species bears a projection that fits into a corresponding depression on the left molar plate, a previously unnoticed but possibly common and important feature. Based on the free-standing nature of molar plate rods, we suggest a brushing rather than a grinding function. The mouthparts of these species are structurally very similar, but differ in size. Size of labrum and mandibles probably dictates the size of food particles ingested. The rake-like structure of lamella 1 on the maxillar head of I. notabilis may explain why the gut contents of this species consist largely of colloidal material.
3227232|Pieces cut from colonies of the soft coral Dendronephthya hemprichi exhibited rapid and effective attachment to hard surfaces. Attachment involved development of root-like processes (RLPs), which appeared at the basal part of the fragment 4 days after its removal from the colony. The fine structural changes and cascade of cellular events occurring in the RLP before and after attachment were studied using SEM, TEM, and LM. The epidermis of the RLPs is actively involved in the attachment process and several distinct phases are documented: appearance of numerous oval vesicles, extrusion of these vesicles resulting in the formation of an outer layer composed of extracellular organic matrix and organellar debris, which functions as an adhesive device leading to initial attachment. The latter phase was followed by the formation of desmocytes, which develop in the RLP epidermis and function as anchoring devices, mediating the firm attachment of the fragment to the substrate. This is the first evidence among anthozoans that desmocytes play an active role in anchoring tissue to substrate and thus extends the range of functions exhibited by desmocytes among anthozoans.
10.2307/3227060|Juveniles of Ophiomastix annulosa live on adults of Ophiocoma scolopendrina, a confamilial broadcast-spawner, in the intertidal zone of Sesoko Is., Okinawa, Japan. This is the first reported instance of a symbiosis between heterospecific ophiuroids. In the sense that the juveniles are brooded by another species, they may be regarded as "brood parasites." There is no evidence that the symbionts physically damage the host, although they may steal its food. O. annulosa of less than 4.5 mm disk diameter primarily occupy the bursae, and also cling to the arms or disk of their hosts. The association is seen year round, usually with 4.2% or fewer of O. scolopendrina being involved. There is generally one juvenile, rarely two, on a host. The body size of the host may limit the maximum size of its symbionts. The ontogenetic transition of O. annulosa from a symbiotic to a free-living life style involves marked changes in integument, arm spine morphology, tube foot structure, disk armament, and pigmentation pattern. Adults of Ophiocoma scolopendrina harbor conspecific juveniles as well, a relatively rare behavior among ophiuroids, but only juveniles of O. annulosa occur in its bursae, the respiratory structures that in brooding and viviparous ophiuroids also serve as brood chambers. An association between adult and juvenile individuals is documented for a Panamanian population of Ophiocoma aethiops, and evidence is presented of a heterospecific symbiosis between juveniles of Ophiomastix janualis and adults of Ophiomastix flaccida in the Philippines.
40206202|Members of Odontocymbiola magellanica (Volutidae, Odontocymbiolinae) inhabit Argentinean waters from 35S to the Magallanes Strait. The reproductive biology of this potential fishery resource has not been studied before. Male individuals reach maturity at 80 mm and females at 90 mm, corresponding to ~7 and 8 years of age, respectively. Mating was observed in the field in all seasons and females possess live spermatozoa in the bursa copulatrix all year round, suggesting that living sperm can be preserved for several months. Major oviposition events occurred July (winter) to December (summer) during the 5 years sampled, as characterized by aggregation of females coincident with increasing photoperiod from winter to summer solstices, and not, apparently, by increase in water temperature. Males showed gametogenic activity throughout the year. Gamete resorption occurred in both sexes. Ultrastructural studies showed that oocytes are attached to companion cells, which enables cell-cell communication and provides support until evacuation; males showed normal sperm cells and two types of parasperms. If populations of O. magellanica are commercially exploited in the future, we propose a minimum catch size of 100 mm, and a ban on the collection of females and egg capsules during the reproductive season.
10.2307/3226899| Arenicolids have hooked setae aligned in a transverse row inside the neuropodial rim of each setigerous segment. Each seta consists of a large tooth (rostrum), several smaller spines (capitium) that partially cover the rostrum, and a shaft. Rostrum and shaft meet at an angle of about 100 in adults and 70 in recently settled specimens. The hooked setae of the latter stages also bear several hair-like structures, which arise from the shaft and surround the rostrum. These setae develop ventrally. Their structure is determined by modifications of the microvillar pattern on the surface of the basalmost cell of the setal follicle, the chaetoblast. In Arenicola marina, chaetogenesis starts with the rostrum, which is formed by a group of microvilli; each spine of the capitium is formed by a single stout microvillus. When both structures have been formed, the longitudinal axis of the anlage shifts due to a reorientation of actin filaments in the microvilli. The hairs of recently settled specimens are formed by long microvilli arising from the apex of the chaetoblast, which lies lateral to the setal anlage. All microvilli merge during the formation of the shaft. Hooked setae have been previously described for sabellidan, terebellidan, pogonophoran, arenicolid, maldanid, psammodrilid, and oweniid polychaetes. Similarities in form and development support homology of these setae, which characterize a monophyletic group within the Annelida. We propose that the ventral site of formation characterizes a sistergroup of arenicolids and maldanids. 
3227258|The ultrastructure of the ciliary apparatus of multiciliated epidermal cells of the trochophore of Epimenia babai and the adult of Strophomenia scandens was studied. The trochal cirri of E. babai consists of long cilia with unspecialized tips. The surfaces between the trochs are sparsely covered with shorter cilia of similar structure except for length. In the adult of S. scandens, the foot is covered by a dense mat of cilia with blunt electron-dense tips. In both E. babai and S. scandens, all cilia have two perpendicularly orientated rootlets. This condition is similar to that of the Chaetodermomorpha (=Caudofoveata) and Polyplacophora. In other molluscs studied to date, the cilia of multiciliated epidermal cells have a single rootlet or a derivative thereof. The presence of two ciliary rootlets likely represents the basal plesiomorphic state for the Bilateria. The existence of this character in the Neomeniomorpha, Chaetodermomorpha, and Polyplacophora is congruent with the hypothesis of a basal position of these taxa within the Mollusca.
10.2307/3227032|Sexually mature individuals of three exogonine syllid species carry eggs or embryos on the dorsolateral body surface above the parapodia. They are attached to the body by chaetae that either penetrate the egg envelope (Sphaerosyllis hermaphrodita) or are closely apposed to the eggs (Brania sp. and B. subterranea). The chaetae are delicate capillaries packed together in bundles; they originate in epidermal thickenings or sacs situated dorsally and slightly anterior to the dorsal cirri. These chaetae are present only in sexually mature animals, and thus are interpreted as epitokous structures, but they are not homologous with the epitokous swimming chaetae situated below the dorsal cirri occurring in several syllids.
40206214|Intersexes are common in crustaceans. Typically, these intersexes are sterile or function as females, but prior evidence from laboratory experiments suggests that intersexes of a key species of gammaridean amphipod, Corophium volutator, might function as males. We observed that intersexes of C. volutator behaved as males by crawling (mate-searching) on a mudflat during ebb tides and pairing in burrows with female amphipods. In the laboratory, intersexes and males did not differ in aspects of crawling such as movement rate and measures of burrow investigation. Pntersexuality was costly in that intersexes crawled less often than males on a mudflat, formed fewer pairs with females than males, and remained in tandem less often with receptive females than males. The use of PCR-based identification methods failed to identify the presence of transovarial, feminizing, microsporidian parasites as a major cause of intersexuality in this species in that infected females did not produce broods that contained more intersexes than broods produced by uninfected females. Because intersexes may be mistaken as females, the percentage of functional males in amphipod populations may be underestimated: an important consideration given male limitation in populations of C. volutator. The occurrence of intersexes has significant implications for studies on the evolution and ecology of sex ratios, and the use of crustaceans as indicators of environmental quality.
10.2307/3226933|Previous models of particle feeding have focused on optimal solutions for particle acquisition or absorption. We propose two conceptual approaches to treat particle feeders as an integrated system of compartments, in hopes of understanding critical limiting factors that might be overlooked by focusing on only one part. The compartment model treats a particle feeder as a series of structures that process particles, with characteristic residence times within compartments and transfer points between them. These might change with overall particle food value and proportion of poor particles. As a non-exclusive alternative, the pathway model considers particle transfer as being analogous to enzyme control systems, with feedback loops that may involve interactions such as negative feedback between compartments that engage in no direct transfer. We examine these models in the light of some studies of particle handling by the deposit-feeding bivalves Yoldia limatula, Macoma secta, and M. nasuta, and the suspension-feeding oyster Crassostrea gigas. In Y. limatula, palp overloading results in feedback that shuts down the particle-collecting palp proboscis. In Macoma, nearly all particles are rejected, suggesting that rejection is necessary because digestion and gut residence time are limiting factors. We suggest that a whole-system approach is important in understanding particle processing by deposit feeders and suspension feeders.
10.2307/3226898|Boccardia proboscidea has poecilogonous development, i.e., it produces more than one type of offspring. Patterns of larval development within one population (La Jolla, CA) vary both among broods produced by different females, and also within a single brood, as some females produce both planktotrophic larvae and benthic juveniles within a single egg capsule. The mode of larval development is linked to the production of nurse eggs, non-viable eggs that are ingested by developing larvae (a process called adelphophagy). Not all females produce nurse eggs and most observed here produced only developing oocytes (Type 1 development). Type 1 females produce offspring that hatch at an early larval stage (3-setiger) and are planktotrophic for 30 d before metamorphosing. Type 2 females are similar to Type 1, but ~15% of the eggs per brood are non-developing nurse eggs. Type 2 offspring ingest the nurse eggs, larvae are slightly more advanced at hatching (3-5 setigers), and have a shorter planktotrophic period (19 d) than do Type 1 larvae. Type 3 females differ in that they produce broods in which most eggs (~90%) are nurse eggs. Offspring in Type 3 broods are either adelphophagic (ingest nurse eggs, have accelerated development, and hatch as juveniles) or non-adelphophagic (do not ingest nurse eggs and are similar to Type 1 planktotrophic larvae). Adults of each type are morphologically and ecologically similar and offspring of Type 1 and Type 3 females are interfertile. Although larval development varies among females, a single female will consistently produce broods of the same type. Poecilogony has been reported previously in B. proboscidea, but this is the first report of three developmental morphs within one population.
40206217|Male crickets produce conspicuous acoustic signals to attract mates and deter potential rivals. These signals are created when a male cricket closes his wings rapidly and a file and scraper mechanism causes several areas of the wing to vibrate. The harp is an area of the wing that is part of the resonating structure. Because the harp acts as part of a mechanical resonator, changes in harp area or mass could influence the frequency of sound produced. Because females exhibit stabilizing selection on the frequency used in male songs, we hypothesized that there would be a negative allometric relationship between body size and harp area. In addition, we examined the degree of asymmetry in the harp, wing, and tibia. We examined this in four different species of cricket: Acheta domesticus, Gryllus bimaculatus, Gryllus rubens, and Teleogryllus oceanicus. For each species, we measured pronotum width as an index of body size, tibia length, and the area of the forewing and harp. There were significant differences among species in their morphological characteristics. We observed consistent directional asymmetry in the harp area but not in the total wing area. When wings did exhibit directional asymmetry, it was in the opposite direction of the directional asymmetry observed in the harp. Within species, larger males typically had larger harps and the relationship between harp area and body size exhibited negative allometry. Wing area exhibited an isometric relationship with body size. Our data provide a potential mechanism linking decreases in song frequency with body size in male crickets, and suggest that sensory constraints might influence the morphology of signaling structures in a similar fashion as genitalia.
3227121|In this paper we summarize current knowledge of the distribution, ecology, and reproductive biology of 4 encrusting species in the soft coral family Alcyoniidae, with descriptions of 2 new genera and 2 new species. The new genus Discophyton is erected for Alcyonium rudyi, a species common in the lower intertidal of exposed rocky headlands from Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada south to Point Lobos, California, USA. Discophyton rudyi n. gen. & n. comb. propagates extensively by clonal fission, giving rise to characteristic aggregations of small, regularly spaced, disc-shaped colonies. We describe 2 new species and place them in a new genus, Thrombophyton. Thrombophyton coronatum n. gen. & n. sp. forms irregularly shaped, membranous colonies on rock surfaces; it occurs subtidally along the southern California coast from the Palos Verdes Peninsula to San Diego and on the California Islands. Thrombophyton trachydermum n. gen. & n. sp. has a similar, membranous growth form; it occurs both intertidally and subtidally on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada, and in the San Juan Archipelago, Washington, and intertidally in central California, USA. Alcyonium pacificum, reported for the first time from North American waters, occurs in subtidal kelp beds around the Aleutian islands of Attu and Adak; its mushroom-shaped colonies are raised above the substrate on a short stalk. D. rudyi, T. trachydermum, and A. pacificum are all gonochores that reproduce in late summer; in contrast, T. coronatum appears to reproduce in the spring. D. rudyi and T. coronatum brood larvae internally to a late planula stage. A key to species is presented for all shallow-water soft corals known to occur in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.
25623047|Population size, reproductive timing and habitats, seasonal behaviors, and juvenile activity were assessed in a British Columbia population of the endangered Oregon forestsnail, Allogona townsendiana, over a period of 4 years. Adult snail population size ranged from seven to 47 snails in four  24-m sampling sites. The mating period peaked in March and April; adults aggregated in clusters of eight to 14 snails before mating. Pairs of snails were observed to mate for 225 min or more in close proximity to coarse woody debris and stinging nettle, Urtica dioica. Nesting peaked in AprilMay and resulted in a mean clutch size of 34 eggs (SD = 9). Hatching for two nests occurred at 63 and 64 d after oviposition. Within hours of hatching, juveniles began dispersing from the nest site; by 1 month most had disappeared. Snails tracked with harmonic radar became less active or aestivated from late July to early September and hibernated from early November to mid-March within leaf litter and soil. Preliminary measurements of growth rate indicate this species takes a minimum of 2 years to reach adulthood and has a typical life span of at least 5 years.
23016707|Cues released by predators and injured prey often induce shifts in prey behavior that allow prey to evade predators, but also affect prey resource use. I investigated the effects of chemical and mechanical signals produced by injured snails (Physella gyrina) and predatory crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) on microdistributions of P. gyrina. In an initial experiment, I observed snail responses to the presence of a caged crayfish predator, to injured conspecifics, or to both. There were significant effects of time and the treatment  time interaction on the proportion of snails moving above the water line, with greater proportions of snails above the water line at night than during the day and with weak snail crawl-out behavior being elicited by caged crayfish at night, but not during the day. In a second experiment, I examined snail microdistributions when exposed to crayfish confined to a small cage within each aquarium, crayfish confined to half of each aquarium, and crayfish ranging freely throughout each aquarium. Snails responded most strongly to free-ranging crayfish by moving above the water line, but also demonstrated significant, but reduced, crawl-out responses to crayfish confined to half of each aquarium; however, snails did not respond behaviorally to crayfish confined to small cages. In both experiments, there were marginally significant effects of unfed caged crayfish on the proportions of snail populations hiding under benthic shelters, with this response being the strongest at the start of the experiments but weak overall (with only 45% of P. gyrina responding in each experiment). These results indicate that cues (e.g., chemical or mechanical) produced by predators altered prey microdistributions, but that the exact prey responses (e.g., moving above the water line or into horizontal or benthic refugia) depended on the intensity and nature of cues.
4621892| A sequential in vivo approach was used to examine the transformations undergone by oocytes during transit in the gonoduct of the sea cucumber Holothuria leucospilota, from ovulation until fertilization competency. Spasms of the ovarian muscle bands, during the prespawning locomotor activity of the females, coincided with the extrusion of oocytes from the follicle cells (ovulation). No germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD) was visible and the oocytes were not fertilizable. As the animal began to display the anterior sweeping movements characteristic of spawning, the oocytes streamed out of the gonad and were stored in the gonad basis. The oocytes, which were still non-fertilizable, were then pressed forward through the first (proximal) section of the gonoduct. GVBD was completed during this rapid transit, but oocytes could not be fertilized unless they had soaked 20 min in seawater. In the second (distal) section of the gonoduct, most oocytes were readily fertilizable; fertilization rates increased noticeably after the formation of a bulge beneath the gonopore, which favored the entry of seawater. Hydration of the jelly coat was apparent (i.e., a 60% increase in oocyte surface area). Gamete release occurred in one powerful spurt 85 min after the onset of ovulation. This oocyte maturation sequence is expected to occur in holothurian species with similar anatomy and spawning behavior. 
40981235|The bivalve Raetellops pulchella is a highly specialized, deposit-feeding member of the Mactridae. Studies of its form and function provide an example of how the bivalve body plan can be modified to facilitate the exploitation of mud as a food resource, and help in understanding how this lifestyle has evolved. Adaptations to this lifestyle include an overall reduction in ctenidial size and loss of the descending lamellae of both outer demibranchs. This reduction is associated with the enlargement of the labial palps to process inhaled sediment. In the mantle cavity, a waste canal below the posterior mantle flaps facilitates pseudofeces removal. The midgut is long and capacious, presumably to cope with the large amounts of ingested organic material. In addition, individuals of R. pulchella have unusually thin, brittle, and rostrate shells, with narrow siphonal gapes. They possess a shell buttress in each valve extending from the hinge plate to above the posterior adductor muscle. This buttress functions to prevent the brittle shell valves from fracturing when adduction occurs. A buttress is also seen in some representatives of the Anomalodesmata; in particular, the situation in R. pulchella is most like that seen in individuals of the similarly deposit-feeding species Offadesma angasi (Anomalodesmata: Periplomatidae). I interpret the similar shell form of these deposit-feeding clams as an example of convergent evolution.
23016673|According to anecdotal evidence, some spiders are inaccurate mimics of ants, that is, they resemble one or several ant models in coloration, but not in body form. Here, we studied the mimetic accuracy of individuals of three myrmecomorphic species, Liophrurillus flavitarsis, Phrurolithus festivus, and Micaria sociabilis, and their association with ant models to find evidence in support of hypotheses suggested to explain the maintenance of inaccurate mimicry. We found that all three species occur together with their models. Individuals of L. flavitarsis and P. festivus associated with a few ant species, while specimens of M. sociabilis only associated with a single species. The density of spiders was several hundred times lower than that of their models. The myrmecomorphs resembled their models in color, body length, and speed of movement but not in some aspects of behavior (specifically, gait and opisthosoma bobbing). Behavioral resemblance might markedly improve the inaccurate static visual resemblance, resulting in overall high accuracy. However, the constant movement of mimics and models may not allow operators to discriminate between them, thus relaxing selection for more accurate visual mimicry.
3701481| Larvae of the freshwater swan mussel, Anodonta cygnea, were cultured in artificial media at the controlled temperature of 23  2C, with successful metamorphosis for the first time. The artificial medium contained a mixture of M199, common carp plasma, and antibiotics/antimycotics. Glochidia were reared to the juvenile stage in the medium after 10-11 d of culture. After 15 d of controlled feeding with phytoplankton, the juveniles showed an elongated shell with several growth lines. Larval survival was 34.3  9.3%, whereas the proportion undergoing metamorphosis was  60.8  4.2%. The ultrastructure of early developmental stages was observed by scanning electron microscopy, from the glochidial to the juvenile stage. Glochidia had a hooked shell, with two equal triangular valves formed by a calcareous layer with numerous pores and covered by a thin cuticle of chitin-keratin. The appearance of the complete foot within 11 d of in vitro culture was considered the final feature of metamorphosis to the juvenile stage. The main alteration during juvenile development was the formation, under the glochidial shell, of a new periostracum with growth lines. The prominent foot, gradually covered by long, dense cilia, showed rhythmical movements involved in the capture of particulate matter. Similarly, cilia and microvilli present in the mantle also performed the same role. Longer cilia, sparsely distributed in the mantle, may function as chemotactile sensors. 
3227125|The gametogenesis of the earthworm Hormogaster elisae, an endemic species of central Spain, was studied over a 12-month period. The ovaries, seminal vesicles, male funnels, and spermathecae of 156 specimens were removed by dissection. Microscopic analysis of these organs allowed the study of the gametogenic cycle, and provided information on copulation method and reproductive cycle. Individuals of H. elisae have two pairs of spermathecae, the posterior of which is more important for the storage of sperm. In summer, the earthworms enter quiescence, and oogenesis and spermatogenesis are interrupted. The gametogenic processes occur mainly during autumn and winter. Ovules are produced during all months except August and September, and the spermathecae contain sperm over the full 12-month period. There is a reproductive peak in spring, when most ovules are produced and the clitellum is most developed.
40663845|We examined the brain architecture in different species of Chaetognatha using immunofluorescence methods with a set of nervous system markers and confocal laser-scan microscopic analysis. These markers include antibodies against synaptic proteins, RFamiderelated peptides, and tyrosinated tubulin, as well as a marker of cell nuclei. Furthermore, we present a 3D reconstruction based on histological section series. Our results expand the previous knowledge on neuroanatomy in Chaetognatha. We suggest a structural and functional subdivision of the rather complex chaetognath brain into two domains, a posterior domain that may be primarily involved in the integration of sensory input, and an anterior domain that may be involved in the control of the mouthparts and the anterior part of the digestive system. Immunolocalization of a neuropeptide suggests the presence of an identifiable group of neurons associated with the brain of all species examined here. However, our data also reveal a certain degree of interspecific variation and divergence within the Chaetognatha concerning, for example, the pattern of nerves branching off the brain and the proportional sizes of the various neuropil compartments. We compare our data to brain architecture in various other representatives of Protostomia and Deuterostomia. The chaetognath brain fits within the range of structural variation encountered in protostomian brains, and we cannot find any brain characteristics that would argue in favor of placing chaetognaths outside of the Protostomia. Rather, we see the circumoral arrangement of their cephalic nervous system as an argument that suggests protostome affinities.
4621925|"Babysitting" symbioses between brittle star species involve juveniles of one species and adults of another. During this phenomenon, reported from many localities in the Indo-Pacific Ocean, juveniles are attached to the disk or lie in the bursa of the adults. The symbiosis between members of Ophiomastix venosa and their host, Ophiocoma scolopendrina, was investigated on the Great Barrier Reef of Toliara (Madagascar) during a 14-month period. The population of O. scolopendrina only occurs on rocky spurs that frequently emerge at low tide, while the population of O. venosa lies in adjacent surge channels that are always immersed. Only juveniles of O. venosa associated with adults of O. scolopendrina may occur on the rocky spurs. Analyses conducted on the populations of the two species showed that (1) the symbiosis is facultative and that symbiotic juveniles migrate into the channels when they reach a disc diameter of 6 mm, and (2) recruitment in the channels occurs in April. Host choice experiments, Y-tube experiments, and experiments assessing the resistance of the ophiuroids to air-drying were conducted in the laboratory. The experiments clearly demonstrated that (1) symbiotic juveniles of O. venosa specifically recognize adults of O. scolopendrina, while free juveniles of the same size do not, and (2) juveniles of O. venosa would not survive air-drying conditions similar to those observed on the spurs at low tides if they were not in symbiosis with adults of O. scolopendrina.
10.2307/3227011| Little work has been done to describe lancelets as filter feeders, and hitherto no data have existed on either filtration rates or the efficiency with which food particles are retained in the filters. The aim of the present work was to describe and characterize Branchiostoma lanceolatum as a true filter-feeding species. The clearance-rate capacity in B. lanceolatum was measured at naturally low algal concentrations, and used as a reference state representing the normal filtration rate in nature and for comparisons with video recordings of the feeding currents. Simultaneous measurements of clearance different-sized particles, prepared as a mixture of flagellates (Isochrysis, Rhinomonas, and Tetraselmis) showed that particles 4 m are retained by the mucus filter with 100% efficiency. The wavelength and speed of the metachronal wave of the lateral cilia, which generates the power of the branchial pump, were measured to estimate the ciliary beat frequency. Furthermore, transport rate, production, exposure time, and flow speed of water through the mucus filter was estimated. The loss of body dry-weight during a long term starvation period was used as an indirect measure of the respiration rate. The results are used to characterize filter feeding in B. lanceolatum in a way that may be compared to a number of other macro-invertebrate filter feeders that have been studied during recent years. 
10.2307/3227024|The reproductive biology of the Florida lancelet (Branchiostoma floridae) is described from over 21,000 animals collected from early summer 1991 through late summer 1995. Collections were made daily during summer and less frequently during other seasons. Minimal length at sexual maturity was about 23 mm for both sexes. The ratio of males to females was 1:1 throughout the year, and no hermaphrodites were found. During the breeding season (late spring through late summer), the population spawned just after sunset at intervals of 1-15 days, with an average interval of roughly a week. The proportion of lancelets spawning on a given date ranged from a small fraction to about 90% of the adult population. Spawning dates were not significantly correlated with lunar phase or fluctuations in salinity or water temperature. Lancelets could be induced to spawn by electric shock in the laboratory, but only on dates when they spawned in the field. A daily determination of gonad indexes suggested that individual males and females could spawn and then ripen and spawn again in the same breeding season, possibly in as little as 1-2 weeks. Fin-ray indexes (assumed to be proportional to somatic nutritional reserves) were highest in winter, when the lancelets were apparently well nourished but not breeding, and consistently low during the summer breeding season, when the animals were repeatedly spawning and presumably draining their nutritional reserves.
10.2307/3226988|The pericalymma larva of the protobranch bivalve Acita castrensis is described from sections and whole mounts using light and electron microscopy. This is one of few published descriptions of a protobranch larva and the first ultrastructural study of a member of the order Nuculoida. Comparisons with other protobranch pericalymmae are made with respect to size, morphology, ciliation, development mode, and larval period. Early embryogenesis follows a typical bivalve pattern and by day 5 results in a fully formed, barrel-shaped pericalymma with prominent apical tuft. The larva is planktic and lecithotrophic. It propels itself with three transverse bands of cilia and a patch of accessory locomotory cilia. Late-stage larvae become laterally compressed as the shell develops. Metamorphosis occurs at day 8 with shedding of the larval test. The pericalymma of A. castrensis most closely resembles that of Nucula proxima and N. turgida. They share features that are possibly unique to the Nuculidae including an ovoid form, 2 ab-apical openings in the test, a post-anal structure, no statocyst, and reduced musculature. The post-anal organ of A. castrensis is a unique larval organ possessing two types of cilia and a small cavity near the tip. The organ begins to form during mid-embryogenesis and most likely serves as a sensory device in site selection or as a locomotory director, but may perform other functions. The protobranch pericalymma may represent a modification of the veliger larva form, a precursor to the veliger form, or the veliger and pericalymma may have diverged from a common ancestral developmental form. The pericalymma also shares morphological similarities with the developmental forms of aplacophorans, archacogastropods, polyplacophorans, and scaphopods; all possess a test or velum with ciliary bands, and some possess a posterior protrusion. Further work is needed among these developmental forms to ascertain structural homologies and phylogenetic affinities.
3701470| We report on a study of reproduction and development in the Mediterranean vermetid gastropod Vermetus triquetrus from the SE coast of Spain. It is a gonochoristic species. The egg capsules are attached to the inside of the shell, and females brood up to 22 capsules simultaneously (more often 4-10). The capsules hold 10-61 eggs or embryos; the uncleaved eggs are yolk-rich, with a mean diameter of 377.3 m. A distinct polar lobe occurs during the first cleavage, and blastomere D has discernible qualities after the 4-cell stage. The formation of the mesentoblast 4d occurs at the transition from the 24-cell stage to the 25-cell stage. Gastrulation begins after the 36-cell stage. Internal yolk is the major source of nutrition for the encapsulated embryos, but some nurse eggs (~12%) and some sibling larvae are also ingested by the developing embryos. Hatching occurs during the swimming/crawling pediveliger stage, and metamorphosis is completed outside the capsules soon after hatching. Hence, larval development in Vermetus triquetrus is lecithotrophic intracapsular, with a short free-swimming/ crawling phase. 
10.2307/3227033|The marine worm Urechis caupo exhibits specialized secondary lysosomes termed sulfide-oxidizing bodies throughout the epithelial tissues of the alimentary canal which appear to concentrate environmental toxins such as aluminum, silica and sulfur, as revealed by X-ray microanalysis. Ultrastructural examination of the alimentary tract of U. caupo reveals a digestive tube consisting of an inner layer of epithelium lining the central lumen, a layer of connective tissue with embedded muscle fibers, and a peritoneal covering. The thickness, ciliation and morphology of the innermost epithelium show regional variation that correlate with functional specialization, and the main cell types are ciliated, microvillate, and mucus- and enzyme-secreting cells. In the anterior part of alimentary canal (esophagus, gizzard, and stomach), the epithelium is almost entirely composed of ciliated and mucus cells, serving to move particulate matter and fluids, and the gizzard epithelial morphology reflects comminution of food particles. In the midgut, the epithelium is composed of microvillate and enzyme-secreting cells, suggesting involvement in digestive and absorptive functions. The hindgut, which acts as a water lung and is devoid of any digestive function, is lined by microvillate cells involved in gaseous exchange. The epithelium of the body wall and hindgut have been previously reported to contain numerous sulfide-oxidizing bodies, similar in ultrastructure and elemental composition to those of the alimentary canal described here (Menon & Arp 1992; 1993). These unusual organelles, which form a peripheral defense on all exposed surfaces of the worm, are part of an extensive suite of sulfide detoxification and tolerance mechanisms which enable the worm to flourish in a sulfide-rich environment.
40206247|Bryozoans are among a diverse range of invertebrates capable of secreting calcium carbonate skeletons. Relatively little is known about biomineralization in bryozoans, despite the importance of understanding biomineralization processes for nanotechnology and the threats imposed by ocean acidification on organisms having calcareous skeletons. Ten species of cheilostome bryozoans that are reported to have bimineralic skeletons of calcite and aragonite are studied here using Raman spectroscopy. This technique allowed identification of the two mineral phases at submicron spatial resolution, allowing the distributions of calcite and aragonite within bryozoan skeletons to be determined with unprecedented precision. Confirming previous findings based on the use of chemical stains, most of the bimineralic species analyzed exhibited a calcitic skeletal framework, composed of basal, vertical, and inner frontal walls, having aragonite deposited subsequently onto the outer surfaces of the frontal walls. In one species (Odontionella cyclops), aragonite formed the superstructure above the autozooids, and in two others, traces of aragonite were detected on the undersides of the frontal shields. Using Raman spectroscopy, it was possible for the first time to determine the mineralogy of small-scale structures, including orificial rims, condyles and hinge teeth, avicularian pivotal bars and rostra, and ascopore rims and sieve plates. Even when surrounded by aragonitic frontal shields, these structures were found typically to be calcitic, the two exceptions being the aragonitic avicularia of Stylopoma inchoans and O. cyclops. Unexpectedly, the first-formed part of the basal wall at the distalmost growing edge of Pentaporafoliacea was found to consist mainly of aragonite. This may point to a precursory phase of biomineralization comparable with the unusual mineralogies identified previously in the earliest- formed skeletons of members of some other invertebrate phyla.
10.2307/3226865|One of the commonly assumed consequences of modularity is that senescence may be avoided, or at least delayed, at the level of the genet, with senescence frequently being expressed at the level of the individual module. Here we present evidence from a laboratory study of senescence at the zooid (= module) level in the bryozoan Electra pilosa. Post-larval ancestrulae of this species were collected intertidally in St Andrews Bay, SE Scotland, on the macroalga Fucus serratus, and reared under constant conditions in the laboratory. Polypides in this species undergo repeated cycles of regression and regeneration. Zooid senescence was indicated here by polypide life spans decreasing over successive polypide cycles, while the period required to regenerate new polypides increased over time. Senescence sensu stricto may have evolved either in a unitary ancestor of the Bryozoa, or in the phylum itself, but the proximal deterioration of physiological parameters at the zooid level might not constitute evolved senescence sensu stricto. Rather, it may result from selection for rapid distal colony growth, with a concomitant decrease in proximal zooid investment and provisioning.
3227201|Floscularia ringens is a cosmopolitan, sessile rotifer (class Monogononta) that lives inside a tube it constructs from numerous small, rounded pellets. Adults of F. ringens produce parthenogenetic eggs that are retained within the tube. Upon hatching, juveniles remain within the maternal tube for a short time completing their development before swimming away. The free-swimming juvenile has a conical body, short foot, small corona, and mastax with trophi, but appears unable to feed. After a short time (<1 day), the young rotifer attaches permanently to a substrate and its morphology changes radically: the corona develops 4 wide lobes and the foot elongates, becoming slender and retractable. Once the corona has developed, the young animal begins to feed by producing filtering currents, and also starts to build its own tube. Here we report 4 new morphological details regarding this species. (1) A specialized epidermal groove is present on the trunk in front of the cloaca. (2) A small hole is located in the center of the inner surface of each pellet of the tube. (3) The muscles inside the foot are U-shaped in transverse section. (4) The size of the trophi remains unchanged during growth of the juvenile into an adult.
10.2307/3226963|The ultrastructure of spermiogenesis and sperm in four species of Amphiglena is described: A. lindae, A. mediterranea, A. nathae, and A. pacifica. All are simultaneous hermaphrodites with oocytes and developing sperm present in abdominal chaetigers. Spermiogenesis occurs in large, synchronously developing masses connected to a cytophore in all four species, and is similar to that previously described for A. terebro. Sperm have an elongate nucleus and long midpiece. The acrosome and nucleus spiral around each other at the tip of the sperm. There are clear differences between the species in the structure of the mature sperm. The spermathecae of A. terebro are sac-like structures, with a simpler morphology than those found in other Amphiglena spp. The spermathecae of A. pacifica are like those of A. lindae, A. mediterranea, and A. nathae in being narrow, convoluted ducts. Based on previously published analyses, the elongate sperm heads and presence of spermathecae found in Amphiglena appear to have evolved independently from the similar condition seen in plesiomorphic sabellins such as Amphicorina. Further information on other apomorphic sabellins that brood larvae, such as Potamilla, is required to determine if the unusual sperm morphology and spermathecae in Amphiglena represent synapomorphies for members of the genus.
41408396|The genome of the non-blood-feeding glossiphoniid leech Helobdella robusta was screened for leech antiplatelet protein (LAPP), an anticoagulant that specifically inhibits collagen-stimulated platelet aggregation. Previously identified LAPP sequences from Haementeria officinalis were used as queries against the predicted genes in the genome, employing a variety of BLAST protocols. Matches were reciprocally BLASTed against GenBank databases as a cross-validation of the predicted annotations of the genes. A total of eight loci, positioned as a tandem array, were recovered with significantly low e-values; these showed high sequence similarity (32.49% average sequence similarity of shared amino acid positions) to the known anticoagulants. Moreover, six of these possessed a predicted signal-peptide toward the N-terminus, indicating their secretion by the leech. All eight loci, together with known LAPP sequences from Ha. officinalis, as well as several sequences from publicly available expressed sequence tag libraries of Ha. depressa and He. robusta, were aligned and subjected to phylogenetic analysis. The resulting tree showed a monophyletic clade consisting of the He. robusta loci, which was sister to a clade comprised of Haementeria derived sequences. To corroborate the evolution of the anticoagulants with the evolution of leeches more generally, the topology of the LAPP-tree was compared to that of a previously published leech phylogeny; these showed compatible topologies with respect to the included genera. These results corroborate recent phylogenetic work, which suggests that this non-blood-feeding leech has a hematophagous ancestry.
3227092|In the clam shrimp Eulimnadia texana and some other species of desert ephemeral pool-dwelling branchiopod crustaceans, males coexist with hermaphrodites. The hermaphrodites can mate with males or can fertilize their own eggs but cannot mate with other hermaphrodites. Understanding the evolutionary dynamics of this mixed mating system, known as androdioecy, requires a basic knowledge of the reproductive behavior of this species. Here we describe the reproductive cycle of hermaphrodites when isolated and when in the presence of a male. Videos were analyzed to provide a description of egg movement from the ovotestes to the brood chamber. Through time-lapse photography, we determined that paired hermaphrodites carried their brood longer and swam fast for a greater duration than did isolated hermaphrodites. Isolated hermaphrodites dug more preliminary burrows before burying their clutch and had longer inter-clutch intervals than did paired hermaphrodites. These observations suggest that hermaphrodites may behave in ways that maximize the likelihood of mating, and that males may interfere with hermaphrodites during egg laying.
3227109|The digestion of food plaquettes in the ciliated protozoan Hyalophysa chattoni was analyzed by light and electron microscopy. Through the use of nigrosin as a tracer for light microscopy and polystyrene microparticles for electron microscopy, we have demonstrated that food plaquettes transform to late-stage digestive vesicles. Eventually, in the phoront, some of the late-stage vesicles merge to form larger fusion vesicles, which are retained in the peripheral cytoplasm of the ensuing feeding stage. After the feeding stage settles and encysts, these vesicles are either retained by the daughter cells or are left in the divisional cyst as residual bodies. Food plaquettes, digestive vesicles, and fusion vesicles stain positively with neutral red and acridine orange, indicating an acidic pH. These results portray a unique digestive pathway in which stored, undigested material is reorganized into larger fusion vesicles as the cell prepares for additional feeding.
10.2307/3226891|The trophi of rotifers resemble the sclerotized jaws of gnathostomulids, but whether trophi are homologous to gnathostomulid jaws, and consequently show phylogenetic relationship between Gnathostomulida and Rotifera, has been unclear. We have found that the trophi of a rotifer in the genus Seison, which is ranked close to the ancestral stock of rotifers, have an ultrastructural feature similar to that reported in the literature for jaws of both scleroperalian and filospermoidean gnathostomulids, as well as for trophi in the more derived bdelloid rotifer genus Philodina. Specifically, these trophi and jaws have arrays of tube-like support rods composed of lucent material surrounding a dense core. Jaw-like structures in other small vermiform animals (certain polychaetes and molluscs) lack this special feature. We propose that jaw substructure shows a homology, and thus a sister-group relationship, between Gnathostomulida and the clade containing Rotifera plus Acanthocephala.
3227217|The morphology of Astrobrachion constrictum, a representative of the little known Euryalida, was examined by light and electron microscopy. The tegument is smooth and lacks calcified elements. Many features of A. constrictum were found to conform to the usual pattern of ophiuroid anatomy. The skeletal elements are generally composed of uniform labyrinthic stereom. The radial shields, however, consist of overlapping stereom plates. The 5 oral shields serve as madreporites, each with a U-shaped canal leading into an axial sinus. A 3-lobed axial organ is associated with each madreporite and may play some sensory or secretory role.
10.2307/3226848|Investigations of the early intramolluscan development of Echinostoma paraensei in juvenile M-line snails, Biomphalaria glabrata, have revealed the presence of a previously uncharacterized stage, a morphologically and behaviorally specialized mother redia, here termed the precocious mother redia (PMR). The PMR, which is produced in a sporocyst attached to the inner surface of the host's ventricle, develops before other mother rediae and is released as early as 6 days post-exposure (DPE). Unlike all other mother rediae later produced by the sporocyst, it attaches to the ventricle wall adjacent to the sporocyst and remains there for at least 31 days. It develops a long, sinuous body and a pharynx approximately twice as large as that of any other mother or daughter redia present. Developing rapidly, the PMR releases daughter rediae at 10 DPE, about 2 days before other mother rediae. When snails containing a single intraventricular sporocyst were challenged by exposure to additional miracidia, fewer challenge sporocysts were observed subsequently in the ventricle than in control snails; this effect was greater if the PMR of the original infection had emerged and was present in the ventricle. The proportion of challenge sporocysts that reached the ventricle but then subsequently disappeared or failed to develop also increased significantly in snails in which a PMR was present. These results suggest that the PMR is specialized to protect the sporocyst and that it is capable of adversely affecting the development of challenge sporocysts. This mode of development was not observed in two other echinostome species (Echinostoma liei and E. trivolvis) examined.
3227209|Pieces of coral rubble (Porites porites), collected from across 3 fringing reefs that lie along a eutrophication gradient, were examined for the presence of clionid sponges. A similarity analysis of species composition showed that reef zone had less effect on clionid community composition than did other factors affecting the reefs as a whole. Exceot on the back reef, the zones, distances, and depths within the reefs had no significant influence on the number of clionid invasions. Reef comparisons demonstrated that clionid abundance increased with increasing eutrophication. Clionids were found in 41% of the pieces collected from the most eutrophic site vs. 24% from the least eutrophic. Because clionids are the principal bioeroders of coral reefs, any increase in their abundance will likely result in greater biorates. The mean abundance of Type 3 corals (in which fragmentation is the primary mode of propagation) is positively related to the frequency of boring sponge invasion, suggesting that increased bioerosion may be partly responsible for community shifts toward Type 3 corals in polluted waters. Cliona cf. vastifica, found for the first time in Barbados, flourishes on the most eutrophic reef and may become an important bioeroder under the highly eutrophic conditions that have begun to plague West Indian reefs. Two new species of Cliona (Porifera: Hadromerida: Clionidae) are described.
3227082|Large knots (>100 individuals) of adult horsehair worms (Gordius difficilis) were collected in several spring-fed habitats in Wisconsin and Minnesota. These aggregations were dominated numerically by males. Although distributions of length and diameter of males and females overlapped, females tended to be significantly longer and wider than males. Moreover, at any given length, females were wider than males. These findings confirm and add statistical support to previously published reports.
10.2307/3226877|Two new species of marine interstitial arthrotardigrades, both members of a new genus, are described from Anahola Bay, Kauai, Hawaiian Islands. Dipodarctus n. gen. is characterized by long primary clavae situated ventral to short lateral cephalic cirri; small ovoid leg IV papillae with short terminal spines; and unequal toe-length patterns on feet I-III as compared to foot IV. Toes on foot IV are of Tanarctus-type with long medial toes, while feet I-III possess at least 3 equal, short toes. Dipodarctus borrori n. sp. has stubby, 2-piece cephalic cirri; an unusual protrusible mouth cone; and outermost toe on feet I-III twice the length of remaining toes on these feet. Dipodarctus anaholiensis n. sp. has long, tapering cephalic cirri; all toes on feet I-III equal; and coarsely punctate cuticle. Dipodarctinae is erected as a new subfamily within the Halechiniscidae to include these animals. Unifying features of the subfamily include ventrally set primary clavae; short sensory papilla on leg IV; feet of legs I-III differing from foot of leg IV. Character-state polarities among the members of the subfamilies of Halechiniscidae are used to construct a cladogram in which two basic groups are distinguished primarily on the basis of toe-length patterns, claw features, and the shape of cephalic appendages.
4124904| Stirpulina ramosa is the only extant endobenthic representative of the Clavagellidae and is restricted to the waters of Japan. A single intact adventitious tube of this species has been obtained and its structure is described. The right valve is 16 mm long and located within the adventitious tube. It has an opisthodetic ligament located on resilifers. There are anterior and posterior adductor muscle scars, a thick pallial line, and pallial and pedal gape (right valve only) sinuses. The left shell valve is but 9 mm long and is united into the fabric of the adventitious tube via the intermediary of a shelly saddle. Internally, only the anterior adductor muscle scar and a small element of the pallial line scar are identifiable on the left valve. The posterior adductor and the rest of the pallial line scar (including a pallial sinus) are, remarkably, located on the adventitious tube beyond the shell valve margin. The adventitious tube of S. ramosa is formed in a manner wholly dissimilar from that of Brechites vaginiferus (Penicillidae). In B. vaginiferus, the tube is secreted as a single entity from the general outer mantle surface, including the siphons, covering the body. As a consequence, both shell valves are incorporated into the structure of the tube and the watering pot is bilaterally symmetrical. In S. ramosa, the tube and watering pot are secreted from the mantle margin and surface surrounding and extending from the left shell valve, so that only the left valve is incorporated into its structure. A dorsally derived mantle element is progressively extended over to the right side of the body, meeting a ventrally derived counterpart that passes beneath it, forming a pleat in the calcareous structure of the right side of the tube that they secrete. This pleat extends into the complex of watering-pot tubules and forms the pedal gape. The watering pot is thus  shaped. The ventrally derived mantle element forms a sinusoidal crest on the right-hand base of the watering pot, creating a pedal gape sinus scar on the right valve. The Clavagellidae radiated widely in the Mesozoic, leaving behind a rich fossil record for Stirpulina. Only S. ramosa, however, has survived until the present. In contrast, the Cenozoic Penicillidae has a poor fossil record, but there is a rich variety of extant endobenthic watering-pot shells. It has been argued hitherto that the two families represent a remarkable example of convergent evolution. In view of the success of the Penicillidae and thus the endobenthic, tube-dwelling lifestyle, however, it is hard to understand why Stirpulina has largely died out-even S. ramosa being known by but one or two specimens. A study of the anatomy of S. ramosa might one day answer this question. 
40206223|Planned conservation efforts for tree snails of the endangered genus Achatinella, endemic to the island of O'ahu, Hawai'i, will include translocations among the remaining wild and captive-bred populations. In order to establish optimal levels of artificial migration among neighboring groups of snails within fragmented populations, efforts to determine natural dispersal rates through direct observation were initiated. Capture-mark-recapture (CMR) efforts have proved inadequate for obtaining the requisite dispersal estimates, due to low recapture probabilities. In addition, snail dispersal beyond the boundaries of a finite CMR study site was indistinguishable from mortality. In the preliminary study reported here, both the low recapture probability and dispersal detection problems of past CMR efforts were addressed by using harmonic radar tracking. This approach yielded rough dispersal estimates that were unattainable using CMR alone by providing 100% recapture rates even beyond the normal survey area boundaries. Extensive snail movements within clusters of connected trees were frequently observed after tracking for merely a few hours, although movements between unconnected trees were rare and recorded only after monthly survey intervals. Just 11 out of 40 tracked snails made between-tree movements (average distance of 4.941.52 m) during the entire 7-month study, and provided the only data utilizable for inferring gene flow in and out of subpopulations. Meteorological data loggers were deployed when tracking began to look for an association between such snail movement and weather fluctuations. The resultant data indicate that increases in both wind gusts and humidity facilitate dispersal (R = 0.77, p-value < 0.001), and that passive wind dispersal alone may be responsible for many snail movements (R = 0.59, p-value = 0.0014). Despite having provided coarse estimates of short-term dispersal and corresponding wind influences, the limitations of the radar method can be substantial.
10.2307/3227030|Cystophorous cercariae of Halipegus occidualis perforate the gut wall of feeding microcrustaceans via the explosive expulsion of a delivery tube from the cercariocyst, resulting in the transfer of the body of the cercaria into the hemocoel of the second intermediate host. The hypothesis that this discharge is associated with osmotic changes within the cercariocyst was tested. Increasing the osmolarity of the solution bathing the cercariocysts inhibited normal excystment. However, ~80% of cercariocysts subsequently placed in distilled water excysted normally. Excystment was sufficiently slowed in 0.25 Osm solutions to reveal at least two separate stages of the process. First, water drawn into the space between the inner and outer cyst walls upon release of the cercariocyst from the snail host creates sufficient turgor pressure to evert the delivery tube when the integrity of the caudal appendage is breached. Second, asymmetric osmotic influx of water into the cercaria forces the swelling body through the delivery tube. Contrary to earlier reports, the delivery tube is everted through the caudal appendage of the cercariocyst, and bears no spine at its tip. The fact that the infection mechanism is osmotically driven has both physiological and evolutionary implications in fresh-water hemiurids, whose origin is thought to be the marine environment.
23016669|Blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) prey on hooked mussels (Ischadium recurvum) growing epizoically on oyster clumps in estuaries along the Louisiana coast. In prey size-selection experiments, blue crabs preferred small mussels (<30-mm shell length) to larger mussels, possibly because handling time increased with mussel size. When crabs were given a choice of solitary mussels versus mussels in clumps on oysters in the laboratory, mortality was lower by 86% in clumped mussels. However, no size selection by crabs occurred with mussels in clumps, likely because smaller mussels escaped predation in crevices between larger mussels or oysters. When individuals of two size classes of mussels were exposed to water containing the scent of crabs and of mussels consumed by blue crabs, an increase in byssal thread production was induced in all mussels, but byssal thread production rate was higher for small mussels than for large mussels. We conclude that increased predation risk for small mussels has resulted in higher size-specific production of byssal threads, and that predator-induced production of byssal threads, which may increase clumping behavior, may reduce their risk of mortality to predatory blue crabs.
40206199|Medusae were the earliest animals to evolve muscle-powered swimming in the seas. Although medusae have achieved diverse and prominent ecological roles throughout the world's oceans, we argue that the primitive organization of cnidarian muscle tissue limits force production and, hence, the mechanical alternatives for swimming bell function. We use a recently developed model comparing the potential force production with the hydrodynamic requirements of jet propulsion, and conclude that jet production is possible only at relatively small bell diameters. In contrast, production of a more complex wake via what we term rowing propulsion permits much larger sizes but requires a different suite of morphological features. Analysis of morphometric data from all medusan taxa independently confirms size-dependent patterns of bell forms that correspond with model predictions. Further, morphospace analysis indicates that various lineages within the Medusozoa have proceeded along either of two evolutionary trajectories. The first alternative involved restriction of jet-propelled medusan bell diameters to small dimensions. These medusae may be either solitary individuals (characteristic of Anthomedusae and Trachymedusae) or aggregates of small individual medusan units into larger colonial forms (characteristic of the nectophores of many members of the Siphonophorae). The second trajectory involved use of rowing propulsion (characteristic of Scyphozoa and some hydromedusan lineages such as the Leptomedusae and Narcomedusae) that allows much larger bell sizes. Convergence on either of the differing propulsive alternatives within the Medusozoa has emerged via parallel evolution among different medusan lineages. The distinctions between propulsive modes have important ecological ramifications because swimming and foraging are interdependent activities for medusae. Rowing swimmers are characteristically cruising predators that select different prey types from those selected by jet-propelled medusae, which are predominantly ambush predators. These relationships indicate that the different biomechanical solutions to constraints on bell function have entailed ecological consequences that are evident in the prey selection patterns and trophic impacts of contemporary medusan lineages.
3701473|Lateral flagella of the antennules of scyllarid lobsters were examined for setal morphology and distribution via scanning electron microscopy. Setal distribution patterns were mapped directly for 3 regions of the antennule (base, tuft, and tip) and analyzed for differences: (1) between left and right antennules, (2) between males and females within a species, and (3) among species by comparing counts of setae per annulus in the ventral tuft region only. Six types of antennular setae were identified based on their external morphology: aesthetascs, simple, modified simple, asymmetric, hemi-plumose, and toothbrush setae. These different types were organized in a clear pattern over the ventral and dorsal surfaces of the lateral flagella of the antennule. Aesthetasc, asymmetric, modified simple, and hemi-plumose setae were found only on annuli in the tuft region between the distal and proximal ends of the flagellum. Simple setae were found on all annuli of all regions of the antennule, and toothbrush setae were mainly concentrated on all annuli of the base region and on proximal annuli of the tuft region. All species of scyllarids examined had the same general pattern of setal distribution and no differences were found between left and right, or male and female antennules. Similar setae located on the lateral antennules of species from the families Nephrophidae and Palinuridae (clawed and spiny lobsters) have been previously described as chemo- and/or mechanoreceptive for use in distance chemoreception (i.e., detection and orientation to olfactory stimuli). Based on work on clawed and spiny lobsters, we predict that the aesthetascs on slipper lobsters have a chemoreceptive function and that simple and toothbrush setae may have a bimodal chemo- and mechanoreceptive function.
40206187|The ultrastructure of the tegument in Paraechinophallus japonicus (Bothriocephalidea: Echinophallidae), a cestode parasite of the bathypelagic fish Psenopsis anomala, was studied using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Paraechinophallus japonicus lacks a true scolex. Four different types of microtriches have been observed on the tegumental surface of P. japonicus. Capilliform (~2.3-m long) and blade-like spiniform (~1.4-m long) microtriches are intermingled on the surface of the pseudoscolex. Capilliform microtriches are distinct in possessing a short base and a long electron-lucent cap. The strobila is covered with two types of microtriches, namely filiform (~2.1-m long) and tusk-shaped microtriches (4.5-m long). Tusk-shaped microtriches are limited to the posterior border of each proglottid and are characterized by a short and narrow base, and a large and wide, sharply pointed, electron-dense cap. Similar tusk-shaped microtriches were previously found in members of the family Echinophallidae and may represent an autapomorphy of echinophallid cestodes, all of them being parasitic in centrolophid fish. A unified terminology of microthrix parts is proposed.
41408392|Rhogocytes are morphologically distinct cells distributed throughout connective tissues of crustaceans and molluscs. Using light microscopy, rhogocytes of the vetigastropod Megathura crenulata were identified by their ovoid shape, and their cytoplasm filled with spherical inclusions which contained lysosomal enzymes, based on uptake of neutral red and staining with LysoTracker dye. Rhogocytes were most abundant in the digestive gland (2,824 rhogocytes/mm), followed by the connective tissue layer surrounding the middle and posterior esophagus and intestine (1,431 rhogocytes/mm, 872 rhogocytes/mm, and 1,190 rhogocytes/mm, respectively), and were lowest in abundance in the foot (154 rhogocytes/mm). At the transmission electron microscopy level, characteristic features of rhogocytes were inclusions showing a variety of electron densities, abundant vesicles, and rough endoplasmic reticulum in the cytoplasm, and regions of plasma membrane folded to produce slits connected by thin diaphragms. Although several functions have been proposed for gastropod rhogocytes, much attention has been focused on their possible role in the synthesis of the respiratory pigment hemocyanin. In M. crenulata, this molecule exists in several isoforms called keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). One isoform, KLH1, is a large didecamer and has been used extensively in studies on vertebrate immunology and cancer therapy. We present four lines of evidence indicating rhogocytes in M. crenulata synthesize KLH1. First, at the transmission electron microscopy level, dilated cisternae of RER containing material similar in size and shape to KLH were observed in rhogocytes examined throughout the year. Second, KLH1 mRNA was identified exclusively in tissue samples that contained rhogocytes; no mRNA for KLH1 was identified in samples containing only hemocytes. Third, immunoperoxidase staining with antibodies specific to KLH was localized only to rhogocytes. Fourth, in situ hybridization with a probe specific for M. crenulata KLH1 demonstrated KLH 1-specific mRNA was present only in rhogocytes. Identification of the cells responsible for the synthesis of KLH is important because of the clinical significance of this molecule.
3227158| The largest extant species of the adventitious tube-building Clavagelloidea has hitherto been placed in the genus Foegia (itself formerly a subgenus of Brechites), the type species of which is the Western Australian F. novaezelandiae (Bruguire 1792). Following examinations of and comparison with F. novaezelandiae and the southern Australian F. veitchi, the latter is herein placed in its own new genus Kendrickiana. Individuals of both F. novaezelandiae and K. veitchi are essentially amyarian in terms of adductor and pedal retractor muscles, but in the latter species the connection to the adventitious tube is located dorsally by an unique horseshoe-shaped array of muscular papillae, which are inserted into holes in the tube. K. veitchi is different from other clavagelloids too in that the siphons are capable of only limited retraction into the tube. Their extension in K. veitchi is almost exclusively by hydraulic means because the complex internal siphonal muscles seen in other species of the Clavagelloidea, and which act antagonistically with extensive blood-filled haemocoels, are vestigial. Kendrickiana can also be separated from Foegia in other anatomical respects. For example, members of the former have paired anterior suspensory muscles, and vestigial posterior pedal retractor muscles with pericardial proprioreceptors associated with them (as in Humphreyia and Dianadema), whereas the latter does not. Similarly, in Foegia there is a muscularized pedal disc, not found in Kendrickiana. Members of F. novaezelandiae are inhabitants of intertidal hypoxic muds, whereas those of K. veitchi apparently live exclusively in subtidal sea grass beds. 
3701482|Stimuli associated with copulatory behavior are often needed to maximize reproductive output in internally fertilized sexual taxa. Although non-pseudogamous parthenogenetic females have no need for sperm, parthenogens descended from sexual ancestors may still require copulatory stimuli to reach their full reproductive potential. Retention of physiological dependence on copulation in parthenogens could facilitate the maintenance of sexual reproduction in species where sexual and parthenogenetic individuals coexist if parthenogens do not receive enough copulatory stimuli to achieve maximal daughter production. A laboratory experiment was conducted to determine whether embryo production in parthenogenetic female snails (Potamopyrgus antipodarum) is dependent on male presence. Rather than male presence, this experiment showed that embryo production is affected by the number of coexisting parthenogens. Specifically, parthenogens housed with fewer other parthenogens produced significantly more embryos than parthenogens housed with a greater number of other parthenogens, regardless of male presence and total population size. This result indicates that copulatory dependence is not likely to contribute to the maintenance of sex in P. antipodarum. Instead, it demonstrates that females of P. antipodarum negatively affect each other's reproduction, and suggests that females of P. antipodarum may exert a larger competitive influence than males of P. antipodarum. Moreover, this finding raises the possibility that highly parthenogenetic and consequently female-dense populations of P. antipodarum may experience decreased reproductive output when population size is large and resources are limiting.
3701451| Recent reports of occasional males in Austrian populations of Triops cancriformis have promoted interest in an analysis of the ultrastructure of the male gonad. It appears as a double thick and well-defined tubular structure running along the midgut, inside the hemocoel. It is composed of two portions: the wall and the lumen. The former is made up of germ cells that are widespread and intermixed with somatic cells. The lumen is ~200 m wide and acts as the collecting site of spermatids and sperm. The germ cells are recognizable by their rounded appearance and by the occurrence of exceptionally long synaptonemal complexes in their nuclei. Their maturation implies a volume elongation and an aggregation in a characteristic "cyst" arrangement. The cysts migrate towards the lumen, where they break open, releasing spermatids and sperm. At the end of this process the lumen is filled with maturing gametes. The sperm have very condensed chromatin nuclei and partially reduced cytoplasm where the most striking features are the axoneme and strewn microtubules together with evident pseudopodia. Our morphological data support the full functionality of males in T. cancriformis. However, further work on gametogenesis, distribution of sexes, and genetic analysis of breeding experiments are needed to reach a fuller understanding of the role of males in middle and northern European populations of this species. 
40663868|The ultrastructure of the male reproductive system in the polyclad flatworm Pleioplana atomata is described. Numerous testes are scattered throughout the entire body but are heavily concentrated on the ventral side. All stages of differentiating sperm cells are present in all testes follicles. Intercellular bridges connect spermatocytes and spermatids derived from a single spermatogonium. In the distal part of spermatids, a zone of differentiation develops with a row of microtubules beneath the plasmalemma. Adjacent to these microtubules, an intercentriolar body is flanked by two basal bodies that give rise to two axonemes (each with a 9+"1" microtubular pattern) that face in opposite directions. The Golgi complex appears in the central portion of the spermatid and produces numerous small and large electron-dense bodies. The small bodies surround the nucleus, whereas the large bodies cluster along with the mitochondria in the central part of the spermatid. Development of the spermatid leads to cell elongation and formation of a filiform, biflagellate mature spermatozoon with cortical microtubules all along the sperm shaft. The male canal system consists of paired vasa deferentia that separately enter a single seminal vesicle. A single prostatic canal connects the seminal vesicle to the prostatic vesicle. Ultrastructurally, the seminal vesicle and prostatic canal are very similar, and along with the prostatic vesicle and stylet pocket, are lined by a ciliated epithelium. The ultrastructure of the prostatic vesicle indicates that it probably produces a large volume of seminal fluid that, along with spermatozoa, is transferred to the mating partner through a stylet. Some of the findings, particularly on sperm ultrastructure, may provide characters useful for phylogenetic analysis.
3227110|In this review, we seek to develop new insights about the nature of algal-sea anemone symbioses by comparing such associations in temperate and tropical seas. Temperate seas undergo pronounced seasonal cycles in irradiance, temperature, and nutrients, while high irradiance, high temperature, and low nutrients are seasonally far less variable in tropical seas. We compare the nature of symbiosis between sea anemones ( = actinians) and zooxanthellae (Symbiodinium spp.) in both regions to test tropical paradigms against temperate examples and to identify directions for future research. Although fewer anemone species are symbiotic in temperate regions, they are locally dominant and ecologically important members of the benthic community compared to the tropics. Zooxanthella densities tend to be lower in temperate anemones, but data are limited to a few species in both temperate and tropical seas. Zooxanthella densities are far more stable over time in temperate anemones than in tropical anemones, suggesting that temperate symbioses are more resistant to fluctuations in environmental parameters such as irradiance and temperature. Light-saturated photosynthetic rates of temperate and tropical zooxanthellae are similar, but temperate anemone hosts receive severely reduced carbon supplies from zooxanthellae during winter months when light is reduced. Symbiont transmission modes and specificity do not show any trends among anemones in tropical vs. temperate seas. Our review indicates the need for the following: (1) Investigations of other temperate and tropical symbiotic anemone species to assess the generality of trends seen in a few "model" anemones. (2) Attention to the field ecology of temperate and tropical algal-anemone symbioses, for example, how symbioses function under seasonally variable environmental factors and how zooxanthallae persist at high densities in darkness and winter. The greater stability of zooxanthella populations in temperate hosts may be useful to understanding tropical symbioses in which bleaching (loss of zooxanthellae) is of major concern. (3) Study of the evolutionary history of symbiosis in both temperate and tropical seas. Continued exploration of the phylogenetic relationships between host anemones and zooxanthella strains may show how and why zooxanthellae differ in anemone hosts in both environments.
3701490|The female atrial system of members of the Polycystididae has been studied at the light microscopical level and compared among the constituent taxa. Based on the criteria of position and conjunction, hypotheses of homology are put forward and compared with the assessments of homology found in earlier literature. Contradictory terminology is synonymized and adapted to fit new findings that recognize homology among structures in different taxa. Based on differences in position and structure, 2 types of female duct are recognized: female duct type I and female duct type II. The term "female bursa" is restricted to a sperm resorbing organ at the proximal end of the female duct type I and/or at the end of a common oviduct. Some species have bundles of glands at the place where the oviduct(s) enter the female duct type I, which are considered homologous among these species. Different types of seminal receptacles are recognized. The term "insemination duct" is restricted to the ducts which in some species, in addition to the oviducts, connect the ovaries with the female duct type I. A single muscular duct, the common oviduct, connects the joined oviducts with the female duct type I in species of Duplacrorhynchus and is considered homologous with the similar duct present in some other species. A uterus is always present, entering the common genital atrium through its frontal wall, or entering a female duct type II. This morphological review of the female atrial system reveals a mosaic distribution of characters if applied to previous phylogenies that are based primarily on the male reproductive system.
10.2307/3226888| The ultrastructure of the sperm and some stages of spermiogenesis are described for Paralvinella pandorae, an alvinellid polychaete known only from deep-sea hydrothermal vents of the northeastern Pacific. In males of this species, groups of spermatocytes and spermatids attached to central cytophores develop in the coelom. As the nuclear material condenses, the nucleus and the spermatid itself elongate. Numerous electron-opaque bodies are formed in the cytoplasm, apparently as Golgi derivatives; these bodies amalgamate to form a large convoluted structure in the midpiece of the sperm. The elongate sperm (head length up to 17 m) are stored in the nephridia of males. The anterior pole of the sperm is a long, thin apical extension of the cell filled with glycogen-like granules, and the nucleus measures 6.0-7.5 m in length. In the midpiece, several mitochondria are found anterior and posterior to the large convoluted structure, which may represent the aerosome. The flagellum emerges at an acute angle posterior to the mitochondria and convoluted structure, indicating limited motility of the sperm. Based on the unusual sperm morphology of P. pandorae, sperm are probably transferred to females as bundles of mature ent-aquasperm, with fertilization taking place in the female's tube or in a gelatinous mass outside the tube. 
10.2307/3227059|In the antarctic ostracode Acetabulastoma sp., a singular type of muscle cell has tentatively been classified as transversely striated with continuous Z-line, interrupted by tubules of sarcoplasmic reticulum. We investigated the presence and distribution of different regulatory, contractile, and structural proteins in this muscle by electron microscopical immunocytochemistry. Troponin, caldesmon, and calponin are three proteins suitable to identify muscle cell types that do not show the classical ultrastructural patterns expected of striated or smooth muscles. Reaction to troponin T was positive (the protein was located along the thin filaments), but no immunoreaction was observed to caldesmon and calponin. Thus, the muscle clearly belongs to the striated class. The contractile proteins myosin, paramyosin, and miniparamyosin were located along the thick filaments. Paramyosin and miniparamyosin are known only from invertebrate thick filaments and have no known vertebrate homolog. A nebulin-like protein was found and, as in vertebrates, may be involved in regulating sarcomere length. Instead of the giant protein titin, known from vertebrate striated muscle, minititin, a protein of the same family but lower molecular weight, was developed. The presence and distribution of proteins such as myosin, troponin, and nebulin as well as the absence of caldesmon and calponin suggest that despite its small size and parasitic life style, Acetabulastoma sp. is an active invertebrate quite unlike those in which the contractile proteins were found to be discontinuously distributed or concentrated at the tips of the thick filaments.
3701446|Although peptides similar to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) peptides have been reported in various taxa of invertebrates, no such evidence has yet been identified for platyhelminths. Antibodies raised against mammalian GnRH were used to investigate the distribution of GnRH immunoreactivity in specimens of the triclad turbellarian Bdelloura candida (Maricola, Bdellouridae). While no GnRH immunoreactivity was detected in the brain and nerve cords, both the putative subepidermal and submuscular nerve plexuses appeared to be immunoreactive. GnRH immunoreactivity was also present in epidermal mucous cells, in parenchymal cells, including cells surrounding the branches of the intestine, in putative neuroendocrine cells associated with the testes, and in the vitellogenic gland cells associated with the oviduct. These observations suggest that the GnRH-like material found in specimens of B. candida may be involved in a variety of functions, including a possible pheromone-like role for mucous cells and the control of specific reproductive activities.
3227186| Polyps of the tropical corallimorpharian Rhodactis rhodostoma segregate sexes between center and edge positions within aggregations produced by clonal replication. On a reef flat at Eilat, northern Red Sea, infertile polyps and males occur mainly along the edges of clonal aggregations, while females mostly occupy central positions within each aggregation. In addition, on the inner to middle reef flat where polyps of this species are abundant, aggregations consist mostly of females. On the outer reef flat, where polyps are rare, a sampled aggregation consisted mostly of males and infertile polyps. Male polyps are significantly smaller than females, and the smallest polyps are infertile. Fecundity increases significantly with polyp size in females, but testis size and number do not vary with body size in males. Oocytes are present in polyps during most of the year and gradually increase in size until annual spawning in June-July during the period of maximum day length. Testes do not vary significantly in size during the year and remain a small proportion of body mass (<8%). In contrast, females invest up to 30% of their body mass into gonads during the months immediately before spawning. The annual spawning of gametes coincides with a temporary drop in the frequency of clonal replication by polyps. We estimate that each female polyp of R. rhodostoma may release up to 3000 large eggs (500 m in maximum diameter) each summer. The high investment of this corallimorpharian in sexual production of planktonic propagules may allow rapid dispersal to reef habitats distant from parent populations. 
40663844|The formation of the central nervous system of the stomatopod crustacean Gonodactylaceus falcatus is described by means of antibody stainings against synapsin and a-tubulin. It is shown that the longitudinal fiber tracts of the ventral nervous system are formed by two centers of origin comprising a number of pioneer neurons, one at the posterior part of the forming brain, the other in the area of the telson anlge at the posteriormost region of the embryo. In addition to the lateral anlagen of the connectives, a median longitudinal nerve is formed beginning in the mandibular segment neuromere. In contrast to those of other segments, the mandibular ganglia are connected by a single commissure. The brain forms a circumoral ring. There is evidence that the deutocerebrum possesses praestomodeal and poststomodeal commissural fibers. The anlge of the nauplius eye reveals a specific pattern of pigment and sensory cells with the two pigment cells expressing synapsin. Clear differences between the expression patterns of synapsin and a-tubulin recommend the combination of a variety of antibodies to gain a complete picture of embryonic neuroanatomy. Our results show overall similarities to other malacostracan and non-malacostracan crustaceans. The comparisons with other crustaceans and arthropods indicate homology of crustacean nauplius eyes, a circumoral deutocerebrum, and a more widespread occurrence of posterior pioneer neurons forming the axon scaffold of the ventral central nervous system than previously thought.
3227270| In this work we investigated the involvement of putative nitric oxide (NO)-forming neurons in enteric plexuses of stylommatophoran gastropods. The nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-containing cells were detected by NADPH diaphorase (NADPHd) histochemistry in the entreral nervous systems of several stylommatophoran species (Achatinacea: Achatina fulica, Helicacea: Cepaea hortensis, Cepaea nemoralis, Discus rotundatus, Helicella obvia, Helix lucorum, Helix lutescens, Monachoides umbrosa, Trichia hispida, Zebrina detrita, Succineacea: Succinea putris, Vertiliginacea: Clausilia dubia, Zonitacea: Arion ater, Arion subfuscus, Limax maximus). We detected the NO synthesis of isolated midintestinal segments by Griess's quantification of nitrite, one end product of NO. Effects of the NOS substrate L-arginine and the NOS inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine (NOARG) were also tested on nitrite production. We found NADPHd-reactive neurons and extrinsic nerves with NADPHd-stained fibers within the myenteric and submucosal networks of the midintestine of investigated members of Helicacea, Succineacea, and Vertiliginacea families. These networks innervated the midintestinal musculature and several nerve cells of the myenteric and submucosal plexi. In investigated members of Achatinacea and Zonitacea, NADPHd-stained networks were not detectable within the digestive tract. Administration of 1 mM L-arginine elevated, whereas 2 mM of NOARG diminished, the nitrite levels of the NADPHd-stained networks containing midintestine in C. nemoralis and H. lucorum. Enteral NADPHd staining was not detected in A. ater and L. maximus, and the nitrite production was not affected by L-arginine. Our results indicate a possible, but evolutionarily not conserved, NO-mediated enteral transmission in stylommatophoran gastropods. 
10.2307/3227039|The insoluble organic matrix fraction from the spicules of the gorgonian Leptogorgia virgulata cycles annually. That is, in the summer, this fraction is predominantly collagenous while in the winter, collagen is largely absent. The mechanisms by which cycling occurs have been examined. It appears that spicules become etched and breaches form, probably via acidification and subsequent decalcification. Acidification at the periphery of winter spicules, and presumably subsequent decalcification, has been verified using acridine orange. The internal organic matrix now becomes exposed to the hydrolytic action of such enzymes as acid phosphatase, which is secreted by secondary sclerocytes and scleroblasts. The digestive enzyme acid phosphatase has been localized throughout the year. In the winter, when the collagen content of spicules is lowest, there was strong labeling for acid phosphatase at the periphery of the spicules, suggesting that the enzyme may be involved in the removal of at least some portion of the organic matrix at this season. The level of enzyme activity in the polyps, heaviest in the fall and variable during the rest of the year, probably reflects seasonal changes in the productivity of the coastal waters in which the gorgonians live. Labeling for acid phosphatase was also strong in the winter in the cortical region of the axis. The enzyme may be digesting collagen that was transported to the axis. Labeling for acid phosphatase in the secondary sclerocytes was at a moderate level throughout the year.
10.2307/3226902|As the teeth of sand dollars are chipped and abraded during use, they are continuously renewed by growth in the plumule. During biting, the teeth are secured in place and held immobile by mutable collagenous dental ligaments, which react the axial forces upon the teeth. During advancement, they are propelled along the dental slides by a pair of dental promoter muscles flanking each tooth, close to the plumule. At the abaxial (or plumular) end of the tooth slides are small, paired styloid processes. The dental promoter muscles originate in the superficial stromal spaces of these processes and insert on the dental membrane. Upon contraction of the promoter muscles, force is transferred to the tooth by tension in its surrounding membrane, which is well endowed with collagen fibrils and bundles. Although some of the bundles wrap around trabecular pillars of the tooth surface, there does not appear to be any direct connection of the muscles to the teeth. However, the muscle fibers do penetrate into the stromal spaces of the jaw and seem to be tethered to trabeculae by bundles of collagen. Smaller muscular regions of the dental membrane, between the plumule and promoter muscles, are possibly antagonists responsible for elongation of the promoter muscles.
40663867|Previous studies suggest that phototaxis in sponge larvae is generated by the bending of a tuft of long posterior cilia (LPC). The photoresponsiveness of these cilia is often assayed by examining their reaction to sudden changes in light intensity. Here, we document and describe the larvae of the tropical marine sponges Neopetrosia proxima and Xestospongia bocatorensis and examine the phototactic behavior of their larvae. Both species brood ovoid, tufted parenchymella larvae, clearly countering an earlier hypothesis that all petrosid sponges are oviparous. Larvae of TV. proxima were positively phototactic and settled after 2 d, while larvae of X. bocatorensis were negatively phototactic and settled in as little as 4 h. In both species, LPC quickly responded to changes in the light intensity. When the light intensity is reduced, the larvae of N. proxima fold the cilia inwards immediately without beating, then flare them outwards, beating for a few seconds, and then gradually return to the neutral position while continuing to beat. In contrast, the larvae of X. bocatorensis flare the cilia outwards when the light intensity is reduced and fold them inwards when the light intensity is increased. Comparisons with reported ciliary responses to light for other species demonstrate that these responses do not show the hypothesized one-to-one correspondence with phototactic behaviors and are, therefore, of limited use in explaining the mechanisms that coordinate larval swimming.
4621890|The relationship between individual heterozygosity and characteristics likely to be associated with fitness was investigated in the labyrinth spider Metepeira ventura. Adult females and their egg sacs were collected at a coastal site in southern California, and three measures of bodily condition (carapace width, weight, residual index) and six measures of reproductive output (number of egg sacs, variation in egg number among sacs [coefficient of variation], total number of eggs, mean eggs/sac, mean eggs/sac divided by carapace width, mean eggs/sac divided by weight) were determined for each spider. The sample was polymorphic at three allozyme loci that were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, and individual females were heterozygous at up to two of the three loci, forming three heterozygosity classes (0, 1, and 2). None of the bodily condition measures were significantly related to the number of heterozygous loci, while four of the reproductive output estimators (total number of eggs, mean eggs/sac, mean eggs/sac divided by carapace width, mean eggs/sac divided by weight) were significantly influenced by heterozygosity. In each significant case, values for class 2 females were less than those for class 0 and 1 females, whose values were usually more similar. Thus, while female bodily condition was comparable among classes, the most heterozygous females produced fewer total eggs and eggs per sac than their less heterozygous peers. The fact that females of M. ventura engage in a reproductive investment-number trade-off suggests that high-variability and low-variability females may be pursuing distinct reproductive strategies in the wild, with more heterozygous females being K-selected (smaller clutches, heavier eggs) and more homozygous females being r-selected (larger clutches, lighter eggs). Further investigation will be needed to assess more fully the fitness value of heterozygosity in M. ventura.
3227224| The gutless marine oligochaete, Olavius crassitunicatus Finogenova 1986 (Tubificidae), from suboxic to sulfidic sediments off Peru, consistently harbored 3 structurally distinct types of extracellular bacterial symbionts. Large, oval bacteria were labeled immunocytochemically, proving their nature as autotrophs. Spectroscopical analysis documented storage of sulfur in this numerically dominant morphotype. Small, rod-shaped bacteria attained a more peripheral position adjacent to the cuticle. The third bacterial type was represented by long, filamentous forms which were often in close contact to the oval bacteria. With their curved or undulate cells, these filiform bacteria resembled spirochetes. They were clearly distinguishable and consistently found in all investigated host specimens. While molecular analyses could not be performed, structural and immunocytochemical evidence indicated that the oval bacteria seemed equivalent to the -proteobacteria in related gutless oligochaetes. On the basis of morphological similarity and indications from closely related symbiotic tubificids, the possible relationship of the two other morphoptypes must remain unsolved and needs further molecular analysis. The three bacterial morphotypes live in a consistent, elaborate, and apparently obligate coexistence with a host that has completely reduced its digestive and excretory organs. 
10.2307/3226883|Meiofaunal hydroids of an undescribed species were found in coarse shell-hash at two sites along the Atlantic coast near Fort Pierce, Florida, USA, between November 1991 and October 1992. Specimens were examined by light microscopy and by scanning and transmission electron microscopy; the behavior was observed and videorecorded. The motile hydroid, up to 1 mm in length, has an extremely long hypostome separating short capitate oral tentacles from longer aboral tentacles, all used in locomotion. A basal disc, similar to that of some actinulae, is used for more permanent attachment. Based on the cnidome (stenoteles, desmonemes, and microbasic mastigophores of two sizes), location and type of tentacles, organization of the endoderm of the tentacle, presence of a supporting lamella, structure of the basal disc, and mode of asexual reproduction, the species is assigned to the family Acaulidae (Athecata, Capitata). Differences from other members of the family, which are all sessile, are considered adaptations to a motile existence, but significant enough to warrant the establishment of a new genus and species, Cryptohydra thieli.
10.2307/3226978|The feeding structures and mechanisms of the brachiopod species Terebratulina septentrionalis from the Bay of Fundy, eastern Canada and Terebratalia transversa from the west coast of Canada were examined, in vivo, with an endoscope linked to a video recording system. A diet consisting of various-sized, light-reflective particles and natural seston was given to both species. Our observations demonstrate that the lateral arms are the sites where most particle rejection occurs and the median coil is the site where particle acceptance occurs. Low particle retention may be attributed to the way particles move on the outer filaments. The combined effect of localized currents produces the large-scale flow through the lophophore. The lophophore's delicate hydrodynamics are easily disturbed by attempts to observe them. Only by relatively non-invasive techniques such as endoscopy can we accurately record normal feeding behaviour.
3701507|Gelatinous Zooplankton play important roles in marine ecosystems and at times can have significant impacts on human activities. Many scyphozoans have enigmatic life cycles and the specific habitat for benthic life history stages is unknown. This is especially true for many of the large surface-cruising scyphomedusae of the northeast Pacific Ocean. Phacellophora camtschatica belongs to the family Ulmaridae and is known to have scyphistomae in the life history. However, the life cycle of P. camtschatica has not been formally described. Here the life cycle of members of P. camtschatica is described based on laboratory observations and compared with early life history stages in the scyphomedusa Aurelia labiata.
3227105|Tertiapatus dominicanus n. g., n. sp. (Tertiapatidae n.fam.) and Succinipatopsis balticus n.gen., n.sp. (Succinipatopsidae n.fam.) (Lobopodia: Onychophora), the first Tertiary fossils of the Lobopodia, are described from Dominican and Baltic amber, respectively. Both families are characterized by the presence of simple legs lacking foot portions with claws and pads. Tertiapatidae is further characterized by soluble body pigments and oral papillae shorter than the legs. Succinipatopsidae is characterized by non-soluble body pigments and oral papillae longer than the legs. Nomenclatural changes include the erection of the class Udeonychophora n.nom. for terrestrial onychophorans with a ventral mouth, the order Ontonychophora n.nom. for extant onychophorans possessing legs with a differentiated "foot" portion, and the family Helenodoridae n.nom. for the genus Helenodora from the Carboniferous. The biogeographical significance of these fossils and their phylogenetic relationship with previously described onychophorans are discussed.
3227166|The spermatozoa of Exogone naidina and E. dispar are characterized by a prominent bell-shaped acrosome, a spheroidal nucleus, and a conventional flagellum. During spermiogenesis, the acrosomal vesicle undergoes conspicuous modifications leading to its final bell shape with a posterior opening. The subacrosomal material initially shows radiating filaments but in mature sperms it appears as a meshwork of electron-opaque material. The acrosomal axis is oblique with respect to the main longitudinal sperm axis. The chromatin is arranged in electron-opaque strands in the early spermatids, then becomes amorphous, and is finally organized in filaments in mature sperms. Centrioles are orthogonally arranged beneath the nucleus and fibers radiate from the distal centriole to contact the plasma membrane and the single mitochondrion. The latter is located eccentrically on the side of the nucleus opposite the acrosome. A disk-shaped structure is evident beneath the distal centriole. The flagellar axoneme has a 9+2 microtubule pattern. A conspicuous glycocalyx surrounds the flagellar plasma membrane, and an electron-lucent space is present between these two structures at the distal tip of the flagellum. We compare the sperm morphology of these two species of Exogone with that described in other members of the subfamily Exogoninae. The fine structure of these two species supports the occurrence of an ent-aquasperm type within Exogoninae, in accordance with the brood strategy present within this subfamily. The mode of reproduction is of taxonomic importance for defining subfamilies within Syllidae, and is likely also of phylogenetic significance. Because epitoky is probably plesiomorphic, the ent-aquasperm type found in Exogoninae can be considered a derived feature within Syllidae.
23016711|Workers of Crematogaster inflata possess the largest metapleural glands (relative to body size) known among ants, with reservoirs extending anteriorly up to the junction between the pro- and the mesothorax, and with over 1400 secretory cells on both sides together. This large secretory capacity is related to the gland's defensive function, which, in members of this species, is directed against larger arthropod and vertebrate enemies, and apparently not against microorganisms, in contrast to other ants, where the gland produces antibiotics. The gland is not equipped with any direct musculature. Secretion release is probably caused by contraction of the oblique longitudinal thorax muscles or by passive expulsion caused by external pressure.
3227160|Simple cupular organs similar to those described in Ciona intestinalis were observed in Corella eumyota. They consist of a macula containing the cell bodies of 20-30 primary sensory neurons whose cilia project into a dome- or finger-shaped structure, the cupula. Rather than being found in the mantle lining as in C. intestinalis, the organs were located on the atrial surface of the branchial sac. The sensory innervation was examined in whole-mount preparations using anti-tubulin immunohistochemistry. Sensory neurons in C. eumyota showed no immunoreactivity with antisera raised against gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). A novel, elongated sense organ termed the cupular strand was found in Corella inflata. It has the same basic components as the simple type of cupular organ but consists of a single, long structure containing ~1500 sensory cells. Located on the atrial surface of the branchial sac, it extends along the midline of the dorsal fold, from the gonoduct openings almost as far as the brain. Preparations were examined using optical and electron microscopy. Nerves and cilia were visualized by anti-tubulin immunofluorescence microscopy. It was possible to follow the sensory axons from the macula of the cupular strand to points where they joined branches of the visceral nerve, which enters a nerve root at the back of the brain. In C. inflata the sensory cell bodies and their axons were immunoreactive not only with anti-tubulin but also with an antiserum raised against Tunicate I GnRH. There was no immunoreactivity, however, with Chicken II and catfish GnRH antisera. All three GnRH antisera labeled the dorsal strand plexus, a structure associated with production of GnRH in its role as a reproductive hormone. We concluded that the GnRH-like molecule labeled in sensory neurons differs from the form of GnRH found in the dorsal strand plexus, and may have a different function, perhaps in the neural control of ciliary activity. The function of the cupular organs in species of Corella has not yet been investigated physiologically, but by analogy with such structures in other metazoans, cupular organs are probably hydrodynamic sensors registering local disturbances or changes in water flow through the atrial cavity.
40981228|The Drosophila cardini group includes 15 species, which are subdivided into the D. cardini and D. dunni subgroups. Although many phylogenetic hypotheses have been proposed for this group during the last five decades (based on patterns of reproductive isolation, morphology of male genitalia, chromosomal inversions, isozyme variation, or molecular sequence data), these are mostly discordant with each other. We aimed to clarify some of the evolutionary patterns related to the origin of this incongruence, while also attempting to provide a better-supported phylogenetic hypothesis for the D. cardini subgroup. For this purpose, sequences from three mitochondrial and three nuclear loci were gathered for at least eight species, and both individual gene trees and joint species tree estimates were evaluated. Although there was concordance among gene trees within each of the nuclear and mitochondrial sets, considerable incongruence was revealed in the comparisons between these two data sets. The branching position of D. neocardini was the main source of incongruence, and species trees reconstructed using different approaches with and without this species were particularly incongruent. In addition to providing a better approximation of the evolutionary history of the D. cardini group, this study suggests that incomplete lineage sorting or introgression may be biasing previous species tree estimates. More generally, the results also suggest that the use of supermatrix methods can lead to an overestimation of support for the inferred relationships, and highlight the potential effects of different taxon sampling strategies in phylogenetic reconstruction.
3227086|A tiny neomenioid postlarva (Neomeniomorpha, or Solenogastres) collected from the water column 3 to 6 m above the east Pacific seamount Fieberling Guyot has 6 iterated, transverse groups of spicules and 7 regions devoid of spicules between the transverse groups and the anterior-and posteriormost spicules. Three pairs of ventral, longitudinal zones with columns of single spicules, each pair with its own distinctive spicule morphology, lack transverse iteration. The 7 regions bare of spicules are compared to shell fields in developing polyplacophorans, and spicule arrangement is compared to sclerite arrangement on the Cambrian fossils Wiwaxia corrugata and Halkieria evangelista and to the spines and shell plates of the Silurian Acaenoplax hayae. The term iteration is used to denote processes that result in both metameric segments and repeated ectodermal skeletal structures. Iterative morphogenesis was probably present in bilateral animals before the Cambrian. Comparisons of iterated ectodermal skeletal structures among fossil and extant forms are suggested to indicate evolutionary relationship.
3227247|The life history of unionid bivalve molluscs includes retention of developing embryos within the gills of parental mussels. This brooding behavior may facilitate nutrient transfer to the glochidia larvae, i.e., matrotrophy. To address this possibility, morphological relationships between brood chambers and developing larvae of Pyganodon cataracta and Utterbackia imbecillis were examined with TEM, and larval shells were observed with SEM, for features that could be associated with the uptake of dissolved materials. Early in brooding, glochidia are enclosed in a vitelline membrane that physically contacts numerous cilia and microvilli of the epithelial cells lining the brood chamber (marsupium). The vitelline membrane subsequently disappears. Lamellar tissues of parental mussels initially have large deposits of glycogen that diminish during the course of brooding. Septa separating brood chambers from adjacent secondary water tubes have numerous mitochondria and microvilli, suggesting the potential for active transport of materials into or out of the marsupia. Since punctae (pores) in the larval shells become filled with an organic matrix early in brooding, they are unlikely to be involved in nutrient exchange. Ultrastructure of the brood chamber and physical contact between the parental mussel and larvae are consistent with a nutritive role for retention of glochidia in the marsupia.
10.2307/3226984|Sea anemones feed by orchestrated movements of tentacles covered with ciliary cones overlying both nematocytes and sensory neurons and mediating nematocyst discharge into prey. The purpose of this study was to investigate the functional morphology of tentacle sensory receptors on Calliactis parasitica and C. tricolor with a combination of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of surface features and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of internal cellular details. We found that the ciliary cones of two types of nematocysts differed: mastigophore-containing nematocytes had an inner ring of large-diameter stereocilia, and basitrich-containing nematocytes had small-diameter stereocilia. Two types of sensory neurons were identified: one had a ciliary cone with an inner ring of large-diameter stereocilia, and the other had a long kinocilium surrounded by a basal ring of short, stubby microvilli. Varying lengths of stereocilia on peripheral supportive cells contributed to both ciliary cones of nematocytes and sensory neurons. Both the supportive epithelial cells with stereocilia and the nonsupportive epithelial cells without stereocilia had a single long kinocilium with a basal body, an accessory centriole, and a thick striated rootlet. Gland cells had a short cilium surrounded by even shorter microvilli. Spirocysts formed apical domes on spirocytes, which had two peripheral rings of short microvilli but no cilium. We believe this combined SEM and TEM study of sensory hairs on tentacles of two species of Calliactis adds to our knowledge of ciliary structures and their cellular associations in sea anemones.
3701448|The tentacles of ommastrephid squids fuse during embryonic development and remain fused as they grow through hatching, but eventually separate to become two fully functional adult tentacles. The external anatomy of individuals at several post-hatching on-togenetic stages of three species of ommastrephid squids (Ommastrephes bartramii, Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis, and Hyaloteuthis pelagica) was examined using scanning electron microscopy and morphometrics. The fusion of the transverse muscle mass of the tentacles was examined using light microscopy. Five ontogenetic stages of tentacle separation were defined based on landmark features such as the extent of the fusion and the presence of suckers or sucker buds at the distal tip. The total tentacle length and fused tentacle length reached a maximum when the dorsal mantle length (ML) equaled 3-4 mm (H. pelagica) or 4-6 mm (O. bartramii, S. oualaniensis), and then decreased with increasing ML. The average split length (measured from the base of the tentacles to the point of tentacle fusion) increased gradually with increasing ML, and the separate tentacle diameter was roughly half the diameter of the fused portion at all sizes. In all three species, separation of the fused tentacles began earlier in development (2-3-mm ML) and was more advanced at smaller sizes than previously reported. The sizes presented here are conservative because excess epithelium at the location of the split may disguise the actual site of separation. Post-separation tentacles were much shorter than the arms, and the carpal region appeared torn in 2 of the 4 specimens of S. oualaniensis examined. Finally, none of the original distal tip suckers were retained on the post-separation tentacles of S. oualaniensis. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the tentacles separate gradually then rupture at the "wrist" (presumptive carpus), and argue against the possibility of prey capture by the fused tentacles.
10.2307/3226972|Carnivorous land snails, Haplotrema concavum, were offered eggs and hatchlings of conspecifics as well as eggs and hatchlings of another snail, Anguispira alternata. These snails made clear choices of prey and revealed a size-related change in feeding preference. Although occasionally engaging in cannibalism, H. concavum exhibited a marked preference for eggs and hatchlings of A. alternata. The tendency to eat eggs diminished as the snails grew, becoming significantly reduced in snails 6-7 mm in diameter.
25623050|This study assessed the effects of long (LD) or short (SD) days on the conversion of [C]-glycerol to [C]-glucose and total lipid concentration in organs of the crab Neohelice granulata challenged by a change in external salinity. In the 20-acclimated crabs, no difference was found in the concentration of total lipids in the muscle, hepatopancreas, gills, or hemolymph between crabs acclimated to SD or LD. In SD crabs, the total lipid levels in the anterior and posterior gills did not decrease during an osmotic challenge. Only in the posterior gills did the total lipid levels decrease during acclimation to the 34 medium in LD animals. The total lipid concentration in the hemolymph decreased after 1 d of osmotic stress in SD, and increased in the hepatopancreas. In LD crabs, the lipid contents decreased gradually in muscle, and in the hepatopancreas on day 3 after transfer to 34 medium. In 20-acclimated crabs, the gluconeogenesis activity in both sets of gills was higher in LD than in SD animals. The gluconeogenesis capacity decreased in both sets of gills on the first day of osmotic challenge in SD, and in the posterior gills on the third day in LD crabs. These results suggest that in organs of N. granulata, photoperiod affects the metabolic adjustments to an osmotic challenge.
3227240| Genetic work on numerous species with planktonically dispersing larvae has demonstrated gene flow throughout populations along the California coast, despite steep environmental gradients around Point Conception. Previous ecological work on a planktonically dispersing intertidal barnacle, Pollicipes polymerus, demonstrated that this species is divided into two physiological races near Point Conception, at Point Latigo. The northern race broods when water temperature either warms or cools to 14C and the southern race broods as water warms to 20C. I examined 8 polymorphic allozyme loci from five populations between Santa Cruz and San Diego to test if the two physiological races are genetically divided. No genetic differences were found over this geographic range, supporting a previous molecular study. These results suggest that reproductive differences between the two races of this stalked barnacle may result from plasticity in brooding activity. 
3227113|It is well known that the competent larvae of many marine invertebrate species can be stimulated to metamorphose by exposing them to elevated concentrations of certain ions, neuroactive substances, and pharmacological agents. In this study we report that larvae of the euryhaline polychaete Capitella sp. I are induced to metamorphose within 24-48 h by reducing salinity from
10.2307/3226947| Yellow, thin-capsuled gemmules of Spongilla lacustris undergo deep diapause. This is the first demonstration of deep diapause in gemmules of this species. Exposure to low temperature promotes emergence from diapause. Evidence suggesting that low temperature may be a necessary condition for breaking deep diapause in sponge gemmules is strongest for Eunapius fragilis. Gemmules stored at 3 C for 3 weeks and then maintained continuously at 20 C for 27 weeks did not hatch, whereas gemmules exposed to 3 C for 18 weeks before they were placed at 20 C hatched within 4 days. Finally, green, thin-capsuled gemmules of Spongilla lacustris and gemmules of Eunapius fragilis eventually hatch at 3 C, but only after a period of several months and only under uncrowded conditions. 
3227226|The vast majority of tested juvenile crayfish of Fallicambarus fodiens consistently preferred conspecific-built mud chimneys over similar-looking human-built chimneys. When the chimneys were surrounded by transparent acetate sheets, the crayfish no longer discriminated between conspecific-built and human-built chimneys. This suggests that visual cues were not important in allowing the crayfish to discriminate between the two chimney types. In the absence of chimneys, significantly more crayfish showed an initial preference for mud saturated with water that had contained conspecifics, over similar mud saturated with distilled water. This indicates that chemical cues play a role in allowing these crayfish to discriminate between the conspecific-conditioned mud and the control wet mud. The preference of F. fodiens individuals for conspecific-built chimneys appears to be based, at least in part, on chemical cues, possibly in addition to tactile cues.
3227177|We have constructed molecular phylogenetic trees for members of the Sphaeriidae in order to test proposed generic level relationships, and to reconstruct the evolutionary pattern of parental care, in this exclusively freshwater family of heterodont bivalves. An ~480 nucleotide fragment of the mitochondrial large ribosomal subunit (16S rDNA) was sequenced for 4 corbiculid outgroups in addition to 19 sphaeriid ingroup taxa. Ingroup species were obtained from North and South America, Europe, and Australasia and included representatives of the main sphaeriid genera. Our analyses support four primary conclusions: 1) the Sphaeriinae are robustly monophyletic with respect to Eupera platensis; 2) the genus Pisidium is paraphyletic and P. sterkianum is sister to the 17 other sphaeriine taxa in our dataset; 3) synchronous brooding is the ancestral reproductive pattern in the Sphaeriinae; 4) the sequential brooders form a clade in which Musculium taxa are monophyletic and nested among lineages of Sphaerium. Our gene trees reveal an evolutionary progression in parental care complexity from the relatively simple pattern in the Euperinae, to the origin of brood sacs and of extraoogonial embryonic nutrition in the common ancestor of the Sphaeriinae, and ultimately to the development of sequential brooding in Sphaerium/Musculium taxa.
10.2307/3226854|Reproductive cycles of 3 sympatric species of the echinoid genus Pseudechinus, found in southeastern New Zealand, were examined over 27 months from October 1989 to December 1991. Analysis of periodic changes in relative gonadal size was used to help define the reproductive cycle of each species. Although P. huttoni reproduced primarily during the early (austral) summers of 1990 and 1991 (December-January), mature gametes were present in the gonads throughout much of the year. Conversely, P. novaezealandiae reproduced primarily during the autumn and early winter (May-July). P. albocinctus had an extended reproductive period in 1990, which peaked in late spring/early summer (December-January), followed by a gradual spawn-out to late autumn (May-June). The pattern was different in 1991, with a secondary peak in reproductive potential noted in late autumn (June). For all 3 species, males tended to be competent to spawn gametes for a longer period than were females. These observations were all corroborated by analysis of changes in overall gonad histology and in the distribution of oocyte sizes in the ovaries of each species throughout the year. P. huttoni and P. novaezealandiae thus appeared to exhibit temporal reproductive isolation from each other. Intraspecific as well as interannual variability in the timing of reproduction, however, suggests that such temporal isolation may not always be complete. In contrast, P. albocinctus was not temporally isolated from either of its 2 sympatric congeners. These results were examined in the context of seasonally variable environmental conditions.
4124901|The epidermis of the free-living typhloplanids Mesostoma viaregginum and M. productum (Mesostominae) is described. In both species, the epidermis has polarized cells with nuclei located at the basal part of the cell, whereas mitochondria are in the apical one. The epidermis is entirely covered by microvilli and locomotory cilia anchored in the cytoplasm by vertical and horizontal rootlets. Rootlets exhibit distinct length and periodic structure in the two species. Furthermore, in each species vertical and horizontal rootlets possess different periodic structure. The pattern of termination of microtubules in epidermal cilia is described for the first time in the Typhloplanida; central microtubules shift along one axonemal side, doublets 1 and 6-9 lose their microtubule B, and gradually peripheral doublets become singlets. Finally, an electron-dense material caps the tip of the cilia. This pattern of termination closely resembles that of Temnocephalida, Kalytorhynchia, and Dalyelliida examined so far, but differences exist.
3227263|The early juvenile development of 3 species of irregular deep-sea echinoids of the NE Atlantic was examined using scanning electron microscopy. Although the post-metamorphic development of these 3 spatangoids is very similar, the morphology and development of fascioles (specialized bands of heavily ciliated minute spines) facilitates distinguishing the species. In Hemiaster expergitus and Spatangus raschi, the fascioles present in the early juvenile develop to form adult fascioles. In Brissopsis lyrigera, a juvenile fasciole of unknown function disappears during ontogenesis, and new adult subanal and periproct fascioles arise. Fascioles of S. raschi and B. lyrifera are present at a very early stage of development (~0.7 mm test length), whereas in H. expergitus the fasciole appears much later (~3 mm test length). Animals smaller than 0.8 mm test diameter have not yet developed a functional mouth and are still considered as endotrophic postlarval stages. Mouth development is similar for all spatangoids examined.
10.2307/3227000|A total of 26,673 mid- to late-instar larval black flies were collected from 115 stream sites in South Carolina. Host larvae with patent, externally visible infections of nematodes, fungus, or microsporidia were identified to species either morphologically or cytologically. Six parasite taxa were identified: nematodes of the family Mermithidae; the fungus Coelomycidium simulii; and the microsporidia Janacekia debaisieuxi, Polydispyrenia simulii, Amblyospora bracteatalvarians, and Caudospora simulii. Of 43 species of black flies, 25 harbored at least one of these parasite taxa. Records from museum specimens increased the number of infected host species in South Carolina to 34 species. Prevalence of patent infections for each parasite taxon was low, ranging from 0.1 to 6.5% of all larvae. The distribution of nematodes among stream sites was nonrandom and correlated with season, host abundance, and stream-site conditions. The association of nematode distributions with stream parameters might reflect environmental influences on the nematodes during their free-living period and on host susceptibility to infection.
40981226|The morphology of marine invertebrate larvae is strongly correlated with egg size and larval feeding mode. Planktotrophic larvae typically have suites of morphological traits that support a planktonic, feeding life style, while lecithotrophic larvae often have larger, yolkier bodies, and in some cases, a reduced expression of larval traits. Poecilogonous species provide interesting cases for the analysis of early morphogenesis, as two morphs of larvae are produced by a single species. We compared morphogenesis in planktotrophic and lecithotrophic morphs of the poecilogonous annelid Streblospio benedicti from the trochophore stage through metamorphosis, using observations of individuals that were observed alive, with scanning electron microscopy, or in serial sections. Offspring of alternate developmental morphs of this species are well known to have divergent morphologies in terms of size, yolk content, and the presence of larval bristles. We found that some phenotypic differences between morphs occur as traits that are present in only one morph (e.g., larval bristles, bacillary cells on the prostomium and pygidium), but that much of the phenotypic divergence is based on heterochronic changes in the differentiation of shared traits (e.g., gut and coelom). Tissue and organ development are compared in both morphs in terms of their structure and ontogenetic change throughout early development and metamorphosis.
3227118|In this study we present the first detailed description of the motor component of the peripheral nervous system of an ascidian showing its three-dimensional organization and the spatial relationships between nerves and contiguous organs. Nerves of the oozooid and blastozooid of the colonial ascidian Botryllus schlosseri were analyzed using a histochemical method for detecting cholinesterase activity in whole-mount preparations and in sections for light and electron microscopy. Except for the neural gland and gonads, all tissues are well innervated by cholinesterase-reactive neurites. Each blastozooid of the colony possesses an individual nerve plexus which is not in continuity with that of adjacent zooids. The innervation of the mantle, oral and cloacal siphons, branchial basket, heart, and gut are described. Most organs possess a complex network of nerves often with multiple origins from different pathways. A sophisticated pattern is described for the first time in the gut, which receives innervation from the endostyle, the roof of the branchial basket, and the posterior mantle. Dilated axonal regions but no obvious cell bodies were recognized in the peripheral nervous system revealed by cholinesterase activity. The localization of nerves is discussed together with a consideration of their physiological role.
3227272|The expected proportion of males in androdioecious populations (those comprised of males and hermaphrodites) largely depends on the fertilization opportunities of males. If male mating opportunities are low due to restricted access to hermaphroditic eggs, then populations will be hermaphrodite-biased. Hermaphrodites have two mechanisms available to limit male mating success: (1) pre-mating barriers to outcrossing, in which hermaphrodites choose not to pair with males and (2) post-mating barriers to outcrossing, in which hermaphrodite sperm has greater access to eggs than male sperm. In this study, we measured male mating success in the androdioecious clam shrimp Eulimnadia texana when pre-mating barriers to outcrossing were removed. These branchiopod crustaceans are small (5-8 mm), filter feeders that live in ephemeral pools in the deserts of the southwestern United States. Using genetic markers, we measured male mating success in laboratory experiments in two populations of these shrimp. We correlated mating success with clasping time, clasping during egg transfer, and male thrusting during egg transfer. Males fertilized an average of 24-40% of the hermaphrodites' eggs. Outcrossing success was positively correlated with clasping duration, and was nearly an order of magnitude higher for males thrusting during egg transfer relative to thrusting at other times during pairing. Because these estimates of mating success were similar to previously reported estimates (in which both pre- and post-mating barriers to outcrossing were potentially important), we deduced that pre-mating barriers to outcrossing do not greatly decrease male outcrossing success in E. texana; the low fertilization (25-50% of available eggs) by males is thus due to post-mating barrier(s) to outcrossing.
25623046|Pomacea canaliculata is an internally fertilizing gastropod that produces, besides fertilizing sperm (= eusperm), a large number of unfertile sperm (=parasperm) that have no chromatin, are fusiform, and have three to five flagella. Here, we report that this snail also produces another type of parasperm, which results from a peculiar spermiogenesis including an anterior cytoplasmic migration. The mature oligopyrene parasperm has: (1) a rounded head including a partly lysed nucleus, (2) a conical mid-piece with eight large mitochondrial structures, and (3) a single flagellum (20 m). These characteristics, although not found in any other gastropod parasperm, are shared with the externally fertilizing "ectaquasperm" and with the early spermiogenic stages of internally fertilizing "introsperm" found among the Annelida and basal Mollusca. There are indications that this sperm type may be produced by a truncation of euspermiogenesis, as proposed by Buckland-Nicks & Scheltema for the expression of ectaquasperm in bilaterian evolution.
4621893|Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) functions as a major chaperone protein that interacts with a limited number of specific client proteins including some transcription factors, many kinases including mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and cytoskeletal proteins. The antibiotic geldanamycin (GA) is frequently used as an in vivo inhibitor of HSP90 function and the organic compound U0126 inhibits the activation of MAPK in live cells. In the present study, embryos of Molgula pacifica, at the gastrula stage, were continuously treated with 5 mol L
3701493| Spider silks possess a remarkable combination of high tensile strength and extensibility that makes them among the toughest materials known. Despite the potential exploitation of these properties in biotechnology, very few silks have ever been characterized mechanically. This is due in part to the difficulty of measuring the thin diameters of silk fibers. The largest silk fibers are only 5-10 m in diameter and some can be as fine as 50 nm in diameter. Such narrow diameters, coupled with the refraction of light due to the anisotropic nature of crystalline regions within silk fibers, make it difficult to determine the size of silk fibers. Here, we report upon a technique that uses polarized light microscopy (PLM) to accurately and precisely characterize the diameters of spider silk fibers. We found that polarized light microscopy is as precise as scanning electron microscopy (SEM) across repeated measurements of individual samples of silk and resulted in mean diameters that were ~0.10 m larger than those from SEM. Furthermore, we demonstrate that thread diameters within webs of individual spiders can vary by as much as 600%. Therefore, the ability of PLM to non-invasively characterize the diameters of each individual silk fiber used in mechanical tests can provide a crucial control for natural variation in silk diameters, both within webs and among spiders. 
10.2307/3227052|Smithsoninema inaequale n.g., n.sp. (Nematoda: Leptolaimidae: Camacolaiminae) is described from one male and one female specimen taken from within an arenaceous foraminiferan, Vanhoeffenella aff. gaussi Rhumbler 1905 (Foraminifera: Astrorhizidae) collected off the coast of Luanda, Angola. The male has a cuticularized, stylet-like thickening of the dorsal buccal wall, and the posterior end of the esophagus is glandular and elongated as in members of Anguinoides and Onchium (Camacolaiminae). Smithsoninema n.g. is characterized by its strong sexual dimorphism. Males are long, slender, and structurally similar to other males of Camacolaiminae. Females are short and stout, with a voluminous, trophosome-like midgut devoid of an internal lumen. The rectum and anus are vestigial. Through the transparent walls of the test it was possible to see the male and female nematodes enclosed within the theca of the foraminiferan. The nematodes were probably parasites, or endo-predators, rather than inquilines. Camacolaiminae is redefined and Nemella Cobb 1920 is synonymized with Ionema Cobb 1920. Dagda SOUTHERN 1914 and Diodontolaimus Southern 1914 are transferred to Camacolaiminae, although Dagda asymmetrica Gerlach 1953, D. phinneyi Murphy 1964, and Diodontolaimus tenuispiculum Gerlach 1955 are transferred from their respective genera to Procamacolaimus. Eontolaimus Furstenberg & Vincx 1988 is synonymized with Listia Blome 1982 (Leptolaiminae). A key to the genera of Camacolaiminae is provided.
10.2307/3226955|Although hermit crabs are cited as obligate users of gastropod shells, some also use portable sponge shelters. At Dog Island, Florida, in the NE corner of the Gulf of Mexico, the hermit crab Pagurus impressus occupies sponges, commonly found near shoreline in January. However, testing of P. impressus in conspecific groups and in a mixed-species assemblage (with P. longicarpus, P. pollicaris, and Paguristes hummi) confirmed that individuals of P. impressus do not prefer sponge shelters. Hermit crabs in sponges sometimes abandoned them for shells and those in shells rarely switched into sponges. Individuals of P. impressus, especially juveniles, may occupy sponge shelters due to competition from more aggressive species and/or shell-scarcity.
10.2307/3226941|The viviparous holothuroid Synaptula hydriformis, a simultaneous hermaphrodite, broods its young in the coelom and releases young year round. Both eggs and sperms develop asynchronously in the two short gonadal tubules that are suspended in the coelomic cavity. Sperms are released into the tubule, but eggs are not. Each gonadal tubule consists of an outer peritoneum composed of flagellated epithelial cells, muscles, and nerves; an inner germinal epithelium of germinal and somatic cells; and a middle connective-tissue (hemal) compartment bounded by the basal laminas of the peritoneum and germinal epithelium. Spermatogonia and oogonia are flagellated epithelial cells that retain epithelial polarity throughout gametogenesis. During spermatogenesis, spermatocytes emerge towards the lumen from the germinal epithelium and sperms enter the lumen apex (tail) first. Supportive and phagocytic interstitial cells are associated with spermatocytes. During oogenesis, oocytes submerge basally into the hemal sinus and carry the epithelial basal lamina ahead of them. The oocyte apex, however, maintains adhering junctions with somatic (follicle) cells and bears a flagellum, at least into the vitellogenic phase. Full-grown oocytes are enclosed in basal lamina, except apically, where an apical protuberance forms. The apical protuberance is a region of ooplasm, devoid of yolk and rich in microtubules, that terminates apically in an extensive junction between the oolemma and follicle cells of the germinal epithelium. The oogenic pattern of S. hydriformis indicates that the apical-basal polarity of the oocyte becomes the animal-vegetal polarity of the egg, which in turn, becomes the anterior-posterior axis of the larva. Homologous oogenic patterns occur in crinoids and ophiuroids, but not asteroids and echinoids. An outgroup analysis of echinoderm oogenic patterns with those of Cephalochordata and Cnidaria suggests that the pattern common to holothuroids, crinoids, and ophiuroids is plesiomorphic to echinoderms and, in general form, to deuterostome metazoans.
40206188|Males are predicted to strategically allocate sperm across mating partners in order to maximize their chances of paternity. This requires that males have the ability to detect aspects of their partner's mating history or the number of potential mates. We investigated whether simultaneous hermaphrodites mating in the male role strategically adjust sperm transfer depending on rearing conditions. The pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis (Basommatophora) is known to donate sperm repeatedly to different partners during a breeding season and store received sperm for >3 months. The rearing conditions of the donor as well as the recipient affect the amount of sperm transferred. Sperm donors raised in isolation transfer more sperm than those raised in groups. Furthermore, isolated sperm donors transfer less sperm to partners that were raised in groups than to those raised in isolation, i.e., virgins. These findings suggest that snails raised in isolation shift their sex allocation toward the male function and indicate that they can somehow assess the mating status of their partner.
3227159| The population structure and reproductive biology of a population of the spionid polychaete Pygospio elegans was studied at Drum Sands, Firth of Forth, Scotland, between March 1997 and February 1998. P. elegans was numerically dominant at the site and exhibited a population density increase through the sampling period. The population showed a seasonal pattern with two acute periods of recruitment during the year, one in spring and one in winter. Planktotrophic larvae were the only larval type produced throughout the sampling period. Larvae were released at the 3-5 setiger stage and settled at a size of 18-22 setigers. The spring tember of the same year. The adult sex ration was female-biased throughout the study period (mean = 2.99:1  0.51). When female:ripe male sex ratios were highest (summer and fall), the proportion of females brooding larvae decreased suggesting that sexual reproduction is seasonal. Asexual reproduction was not observed in the population of P. elegans on Drum Sands. These findings suggest that a high degree of variability is a trait of the reproductive biology of P. elegans. 
10.2307/3226838|Phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters provided a hypothesis for the origin of the Sundanonchidae within the Tetraonchinea (Dactylogyridea) as sister group to the Tetraonchidae. Sundanonchus tomanorum n. sp. is described and S. micropeltis is reported from the gills of toman, Channa micropeltes, from Tapah, Perak, Malaysia.
10.2307/3226853| Of the five types of coelomocytes in the body cavity of Holothuria leucospilota, a common sea cucumber found in shallow waters of Hong Kong, the phagocytic amebocyte is the most abundant. This study was designed to quantify the phagocytic capacity of these amebocytes using a flow cytometer. Fluorescent latex beads (1 m in diameter) were used as experimental particles. The percentage of phagocytizing cells, the number of ingested beads per cell, and the total number of beads ingested were measured simultaneously at different bead/cell ratios (5:1, 10:1, 25:1, 50:1, 100:1, and 200:1). The percentage of phagocytizing cells and the total number of ingested beads were both positively correlated with bead/cell ratio; within 2 h, 96% of the amebocytes contained beads, and on an average, each amebocyte ingested 6 beads when the bead/cell ratio was 200:1. After ingesting beads, the phagocytizing amebocytes transformed from petaloid form to filopodial form. Interruption of microfilaments by cytochalasin B reduced the effectiveness of phagocytosis. 
10.2307/3226880|The majority of deep-sea invertebrates appear to reproduce "continuously" while some species show a marked seasonal rhythm. Deep-sea habitats are not as unvarying as once believed and some areas of the deep-sea floor are subject to a variety of perturbations, including seasonal fluxes of organic matter originating from surface phytoplankton blooms. Some authors suggest that these organic pulses might activate the reproductive processes of seasonally-reproducing species while having no immediate effect on "continuous" breeders. In this paper, we hypothesize that the different reproductive responses to organic matter can be explained by phylogenetic constraints involving interspecific differences in gonadal morphology, nutrient storage and mobilization, the mechanisms of vitellogenesis, feeding biology, digestive processes, and selective use of nutrients. Invertebrates process nutrients in different ways with some having the capacity for "fast egg-production" while others engage in "slow egg-production." In addition, the pace of gametogenesis and the frequency of spawning will be influenced by the presence of storage tissues, which may release energy reserves to the gonads at a predetermined rate. As a result, seasonal organic fluxes to the deep-sea floor will provoke a variety of reproductive responses. We propose three patterns that may clarify the correlation between seasonal phytodetrital pulses and seasonal reproductive patterns in some species: (1) species initiate gametogenesis immediately in response to organic input and undergo spawning soon after; (2) species spawn when seasonal pulses coincide with conditions favorable for their planktotrophic larvae; or (3) seasonal organic input initiates and synchronizes gametogenesis, producing a future spawning episode after an extended period of vitellogenesis. In those species showing seasonal reproduction, the proximate cause is the seasonal pulse of phytodetritus while the ultimate cause stems from the phylogenetic history of the organism. Reproductive periodicity of deep-sea species is generally predicted from an analysis of gamete development. Consequently, we suggest that seasonal breeders be referred to as having "synchronous gametogenesis" while socalled "continuous" breeders be referred to as having "asynchronous gametogenesis." These terms better describe the condition of the developing gametes without making inferences regarding spawning patterns. Generalizations about the potential response of groups of unrelated taxa to various environmental parameters (e.g. organic pulses) fail, because phylogenetically diverse species respond differently.
3227168|We sequenced the 18S rRNA gene from 11 nematomorph species from 9 genera and derived hypotheses concerning the sister group of Nematomorpha and relationships within this taxon. The molecular and morphological data are consistent with the monophyly of Nematomorpha, a sister-group relationship between Nematomorpha and Nematoda, and a sister-group relationship between the marine genus Nectonema and all of the freshwater taxa, Gordiida. Hypotheses of relationships within Gordiida support the traditional taxa Gordiidae, Chordodidae, and Chordodinae but reject Parachordodinae and Spinochordodidae. The molecular results differ from those of previous morphological studies by suggesting a reduction of the two tail lobes at the posterior end of males in Chordodinae, monophyly of the genus Paragordionus, and paraphyly of the genus Chordodes.
10.2307/3227044|A flat-tipped type of sensillum was studied with the scanning electron microscope in three species of mayflies (Ephemeroptera): Baetis rhodani, Rhithrogena loyolaea, and Epeorus sylvicola. This sensillum bears an apical pore and its slightly enlarged tip forms a flange. In B. rhodani, flat-tipped sensilla are distributed over the surface of the antennal articles, except on the flagellum, where they are arranged along the distal border of each article to form bridges between consecutive articles. In R. loyolaea and E. sylvicola, flat-tipped sensilla show a characteristic arrowhead shape, emerge farther from the distal border of each flagellar article, and are not present on scape and pedicel. They are irregularly distributed, fewer than those of B. rhodani, and rarely reach the adjoining antennal article. On the basis of morphology and location, we hypothesize that flat-tipped sensilla function both as mechano- and chemoreceptors.
3227214| Torsion is a process in gastropod ontogenesis where the visceral body portion rotates 180 relative to the head/foot region. We investigated this process in the limpet Patella caerulea by using light microscopy of living larvae, as well as scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of larvae fixed during the torsion process. The completion of the 180 twist takes considerably less time in larvae of Patella caerulea than previously described for other basal gastropod species. At a rearing temperature of 20-22C, individuals complete ontogenetic torsion in ~2 h. Furthermore, the whole process is monophasic, i.e., carried out at a constant speed, without any evidence of distinct "fast" or "slow" phases. Both larval shell muscles-the main and the accessory larval retractor-are already fully contractile before the onset of torsion. During the torsion process both retractors perform cramp-like contractions at ~30 s intervals, which are followed by hydraulic movements of the foot. However, retraction into the embryonic shell occurs only after torsion is completed. The formation of the larval operculum is entirely independent from ontogenetic torsion and starts before the onset of rotation, as does the mineralization of the embryonic shell. The reported variability regarding the timing (mono- versus biphasic; duration) of torsion in basal gastropod species precludes any attempt to interpret these data phylogenetically. The present findings indicate that the torsion process in Patella caerulea, and probably generally in basal gastropods, is primarily caused by contraction of the larval shell muscles in combination with hydraulic activities. In contrast, the adult shell musculature, which is independently formed after torsion is completed, does not contribute to ontogenetic torsion in any way. Thus, fossil data relying on muscle scars of adult shell muscles alone appear inappropriate to prove torted or untorted conditions in early Paleozoic univalved molluscs. Therefore, we argue that paleontological studies dealing with gastropod phylogeny require data other than those based on fossilized attachment sites of adult shell muscles. 
10.2307/3227043| The aquatic gastropod genus Probythinella Thiele is redefined and proposed as a monophyletic subunit (sister to Cincinnatia) within the North American component of the family Hydrobiidae (Prosobranchia: Rissooidea) on the basis of synapomorphies of blunt shell apex, presence of two seminal receptacles, short albumen gland, and blunt terminus of penis. Probythinella is composed of two parapatric species that are distinguished by derived modifications of the outer edge of the operculum and pigmentation of the pallial roof and cephalic tentacles, and also differ in shell shape, thickness of outer shell lip, size of buccal mass (relative to shell height), and number of cusps on the lateral and marginal radular teeth. Species recognized are Probythinella emarginata (Kster), distributed throughout the Mississippi River drainage and drainages of Great Lakes, Hudson Bay, and Mackenzie River; and P. protera Pilsbry, found in brackish waters along the eastern Gulf of Mexico. 
40663841|Cycliophora is one of the most recently described metazoan phyla and hitherto includes only two species: Symbion pandora and Symbion americanus. With a very complex life cycle, cycliophorans are regarded as an enigmatic group with an uncertain phylogenetic position, although they are commonly considered lophotrochozoan protostomes. In order to extend the database concerning the distribution of immunoreactive substances in the freeswimming chordoid larva of S. pandora, we investigated synapsin immunoreactivity using fluorescence-coupled antibodies in combination with confocal laserscanning microscopy. Moreover, we analyzed the co-localization patterns of synapsin, serotonin, and RFamidelike immunoreactivity in the chordoid larva by 3D imaging technology based on the confocal microscopy image stacks. Synapsin is expressed in large parts of the bilobed anterior cerebral ganglion including anterior and dorsal projections. Two pairs of ventral neurites run longitudinally into the larval body of which the inner pair shows only weak, scattered synapsin immunoreactivity. In addition, a lateral synapsin immunoreactive projection emerges posteriorly from each ventral longitudinal axon. Double immunostaining shows co-localization of synapsin and serotonin in the cerebral ganglion, the outer and the inner ventral neurites, and the anterior projections. Synapsin and RFamide-like immunoreactivity co-occur in the cerebral ganglion, the outer ventral neurites, and the dorsal projections. Accordingly, the cerebral ganglion and the outer ventral neurites are the only neural structures that co-express the two neurotransmitters and synapsin. The overall neuroanatomical condition of the cycliophoran chordoid larva resembles much more the situation of adult rather than larval life cycle stages of a number of spiralian taxa.
3227225|Certain stresses experienced by marine larvae from many groups can dramatically reduce aspects of juvenile performance. This study reports the effects of delayed metamorphosis and nutritional stress on survival and growth of the deposit-feeding sipunculan Apionsoma (= Golfingia) misakianum. Approximately 600 larvae collected from the Florida Current plankton were distributed among 3 treatment groups. Ninety larvae (controls) were offered sediment and adult-conditioned seawater 4 d after collection, to induce metamorphosis; larvae of this species could not be induced to metamorphose by increasing the K
10.2307/3227015|Elevated exogenous KCl and CsCl are effective artificial metamorphic triggers for many, but not all, invertebrate larvae. Neither taxonomic nor functional patterns in their effectiveness, however, are apparent. In our experiments, elevated exogenous KCl promoted metamorphosis of larvae of the demosponge Aplysilla sp., but only when applied simultaneously with a biofilmed artificial substratum. Although the presence of this artificial substratum alone significantly enhanced settlement over seawater controls, its effectiveness was further augmented significantly in the presence of elevated KCl, indicating a synergistic interaction. Exposure of larvae to a 2-min pulse of 30 mM KCl promoted metamorphosis as effectively as continuous exposure to 30 mM KCl. Moreover, 30 mM CsCl proved an effective trigger of metamorphosis both in the absence and presence of a biofilmed substratum. As with KCl, the CsCl data indicate the presence of a synergistic interaction between CsCl and the biofilmed substratum. This report provides preliminary insights into the induction of settlement and metamorphosis of sponges, metazoans which lack established sensory and neuronal elements, and it permits comparison with responses of eumetazoans.
10.2307/3227004|Little is known about the cellular events regulating fission in metazoans. In sea anemones, longitudinal fission begins with stretching of the body column and culminates in ripping apart of the animal. Previously, we found that mechanical stretching of the animal plays a regulatory role in early fission events. In this study we use histology, TUNEL cytochemistry, and TEM to analyze the possible spatio-temporal relationship between stretching of tissues during fission and programmed cell death (apoptosis) within stretched tissues. We report that enhanced apoptosis occurs in specific tissue regions apparently most affected by stretching during fission. In stretched animals we find a significant induction of apoptosis at the junctions of body wall and particular mesenteries that begins in the axis parallel to stretch and then progresses to the axis perpendicular to stretch as fission progresses. Based on these results, we propose a model whereby stretching induces apoptosis in populations of cells, allowing tissue to thin and thus facilitating successful fission.
3227264|Cellular components of the tunic were histologically examined in 3 pyrosome species representing all 3 genera of the order: Pyrosoma atlanticum, Pyrosomella verticillata, and Pyrostremma spinosum. Three cell types are distributed in the tunic. Tunic amebocytes, irregularly shaped and motile, often contain granules and/or phagosomes. Spherical tunic cells contain many round vesicles with eosinophilic and acidic materials. Tunic net cells form a cellular network in which their long filopodia connect with one another. The net cells are densely distributed just beneath the tunic surface lining the common cloacal cavity and may produce tension to maintain the colony shape. The presence of net cells suggests a phylogenetic relationship between pyrosomes and some aplousobranch ascidians. Test fibers are multicellular cords that run in the tunic and connect the zooids. In P. atlanticum, they are attached to the epidermal cells of the zooids, and transverse cloacal muscles are attached to the other (proximal) side of the epidermal cells. The test fibers may mediate coordination of the zooids and control muscle contraction.
40206196|Aspects of the life cycle of the peritrich ciliate Zoothamnium intermedium, an epibiont on calanoid copepods in the Chesapeake Bay, were investigated using host and epibiont cultures. Experiments were designed to characterize the formation, survival, and attachment of free-swimming stages (telotrochs) and to assess whether telotrochs preferentially attach to primary (Acartia tonsa and Eurytemora affinis) or alternate hosts from the zooplankton community (the rotifer Brachionus plicatilis, barnacle nauplii, polychaete larvae, and a harpacticoid copepod). The results showed that telotroch formation started 2 h after the death of the host, with >90% of the zooids leaving the host carapace within 7 h. Formation of telotrochs was triggered only by the death of the host, failing to occur when the host was injured or unable to swim. Telotrochs failed to attach to non-living substrates and survived for only 14 h in the absence of host organisms, suggesting that members of Z. intermedium are obligate epibionts. Attachment success decreased with telotroch age, indicating that colonization success in nature may strongly depend on the ability to find a suitable host in a short period of time. Individuals exhibited no preferences in colonizing juvenile or adult stages of A. tonsa or E. affinis. While telotrochs were able to colonize barnacle nauplii and the harpacticoid copepod in the absence of individuals of A. tonsa or E. affinis, they did not attach to the rotifers or polychaete larvae. Telotrochs preferentially colonized individuals of A. tonsa when in the presence of other non-calanoid host species.
10.2307/3226997|A parsimony-based phylogenetic analysis of representative extant species of the neogastropod taxon Columbellidae is presented, based on anatomical and morphological data derived from 23 columbellid species and 5 outgroups. The phylogenetic hypotheses generated are used to address two primary issues: the relationships of columbellid taxa relative to traditional classifications, and changes in alimentary anatomy relative to the evolution of herbivory in columbellids. The six resulting tree topologies support the monophyly of Columbellidae, and the close relationship between columbellids and buccinids. Columbellidae comprises two major clades whose memberships are similar, but not identical, to those of the traditional subfamilies Columbellinae and Pyreninae. Herbivory is present in three columbellid clades, and is probably a derived condition in all three. Though columbellids retain a basic neogastropod gut anatomy, the transition from carnivory to herbivory is accompanied by several anatomical changes, including the addition of a gastric shield and changes in the radula apparatus.
3227101| Both larval and adult fan worms capture particles with opposed bands of cilia. While the larvae use one of the opposed bands (the prototroch) for both feeding and swimming, the sessile adults rely partly on ambient currents to bring food particles to the ciliary bands. The scaling of length of prototrochal cilia with larval body size contrasts with scaling of the opposed latero-frontal cilia with adult body size. In the larva of the serpulid Hydroides elegans, the length of prototrochal cilia increased from 28 to 42 m in early to late-stage larvae. In contrast, latero-frontal cilia did not increase in length (23 m) during postlarval development of H. elegans. Among adults of 5 fan-worm species, lengths of latero-frontal cilia ranged from 22 to 35 m and were weakly correlated with body size. The total area of ciliary filter nevertheless increased with increasing body dry weight of worms with an allometric exponent similar to exponents reported for gill and lophophore areas vs. body weight within species of suspension-feeding bivalves, brachiopods, and gastropods. The similar scaling was remarkable given the striking differences in distribution and function of the ciliary filters. In adult fan worms, increases in filter area depended largely on increases in number and length of radioles; differences in branching of radioles had little effect. Radioles were commonly in 2 or more rows in series, implying refiltration in still water by downstream radioles. Since the allometry of worms' filter area with body size depends on filters in series, it depends on ambient currents that overwhelm ciliary currents. 
4621897|Examination of sexual reproduction in a symbiotic acoelomorph worm, Waminoa brickneri from Eilat (Red Sea), presents the first definitive evidence for maternal transmission of dinoflagellate algal symbionts in a triploblastic organism. Sexually mature worms were removed from the stony coral Plesiastrea laxa and raised in the laboratory. Eggs were detected 18 d after the collection of the worms and hatched 4 d later. Histological sections performed on sexually mature worms showed an ovary with oocytes containing two distinct types of algal endosymbionts within their ooplasm. Transmission electron microscopy corroborated the presence of algal symbionts within the developing embryos. Our findings regarding maternal transmission of symbionts shed new light on the diversity of modes of algal symbiont acquisition known in triploblastic organisms.
40206241|Knowledge about early stages of marine sessile invertebrates dispersing by means of free-swimming propagules is fundamental toward understanding their population biology. In this study, we describe and quantify survivorship of early stages of the gorgonian Paramuricea clavata to contribute to the understanding of their implications on population dynamics of this emblematic species of the Mediterranean hard-bottom communities. Spawning was recorded in June for the 3 years studied (2001-2003). High levels of fertilization rate were observed during the main spawning in 2001 and 2002 (62-69%). This appears to be related to the surface brooding mode of development, synchronous spawning, and high fecundity of the species. The timing of development of the blastulae was ~24 h and the planulae appeared after 48-72 h. In the laboratory, metamorphosis into polyp started between 8 and 25 d, but this timing may have been delayed by lack of unknown appropriate cues for settlement. The behavior of first developed planulae exhibited a marked negative phototaxis that may be a strategy to avoid competition with fast-growing algae on photophilous habitats. Despite the high fertilization rate in P. clavata, laboratory and field experiences indicate that survivorship through the planulae and polyp stages was very low, given that none of the settled polyps survived for >7 months in both experimental years. The low survival of the early stages may help explain the low recruitment rates observed in the field in addition to indicating major limitations for colonization of new areas and for persistence of the local population under disturbances.
3227268|The eyes of aquatic pulmonates differ from those of terrestrial pulmonates; the latter, in species such as Cepaea nemoralis and Trichia hispida, possess conventional, cup-shaped retinas, but the aquatic species Lymnaea stagnalis, Radix peregra, Physa fontinalis, and Planorbarius corneus have retinas that are partitioned into dorsal and ventral depressions ("pits"). The pits are separated by an internal ridge, called the "crest", and on account of their pigmentation can be seen in vivo. The dominant cellular components of the retinae of terrestrial as well as aquatic snails are pigmented cells and microvillar photoreceptors, the latter occurring in two morphologically distinct types (I and II). Aquatic snails with preferences for shallow water possess eyes with both type I and type II photoreceptive cells, but Pl. corneus, an inhabitant of deeper water, only has type-I receptors, supporting an earlier finding that type I cells represent dim- and type II cells bright-light receptors. On the basis of histological and optical comparisons, we conclude that the eyes of L. stagnalis and R. peregra, species that are known to escape and seek temporary refuge above the water surface, are well adapted to function in water as well as air, but that the eyes of P. fontinalis and Pl. corneus are less modified from those of their terrestrial ancestors.
10.2307/3227028| Rhabdamoeba marina was isolated from coastal waters off the Isle of Cumbrae, Scotland. It is worthy of attention for two reasons. Firstly, it is an example of a marine amoeba that is easily overlooked in fresh or enriched samples despite its widespread distribution within these waters. Secondly, the validity of the genus Rhabdamoeba has been questioned mainly because the original description by Dunkerly (1921) was brief and based solely on preserved material. The present redescription of this isolate, based on light and electron microscopy, removes the confusion surrounding the status of the genus. Amoebae are between 5.0 and 25.0 m in length, and are essentially stationary apart from the occasional extension of a long, active, feeding pseudopodium up to 50 m from the cell body. The pseudopodia of stationary cells are distinctive, appearing as knob-like or foot-like extensions around the cell body. Small papillae at the tips of these pseudopodia are evident at high magnifications by light and scanning electron microscopy. Diagnostic features of note at the ultrastructural level include a cell surface without a glycocalyx and a nucleus with a central nucleolus (i.e., vesicular nucleus) which is common in small amoebae. The cytoplasm contains Golgi cisternae and the mitochondria have tubular cristae. The life cycle of this protist includes a flagellated stage that has not previously been reported. 
4124893| The sacoglossan sea slug Elysia clarki feeds on siphonaceous algae, and intracellularly sequesters chloroplasts, which actively photosynthesize for  months. We have determined the algal source of chloroplasts in adults of E. clarki from the Florida Keys, using molecular techniques, feeding experiments, and electron microscopy. Our results clearly demonstrate that specimens of E. clarki sequester chloroplasts from four different species of algae, representing two genera: Penicillus lamourouxii, P. capitatus, Halimeda incrassata, and H. monile. In addition, chloroplasts from more than one species of algae are sequestered simultaneously in the same digestive cell. 
10.2307/3226983|Protistan bacterivory is considered important in aquatic ecosystems but difficult to measure. Two recently proposed enzymatic assays of protistan bacterivory rely on lysozyme hydrolysis of the  glycosidic bond between N-acetylglucosamine and the fluorogenic compound 4-methylumbelliferyl. We analyzed protists and metazoans for acid-lysozyme (L_{ACID)), and found that 5 of 6 protists and 20 of 21 (95%) metazoan genera had L_{ACID). Protistan bacterivory estimates based on L_{ACID) activity may be erroneous if micrometazoans are in analyzed samples, as is likely in benthic and littoral samples and without careful sample processing. In addition, lysozymes (e.g., L_{ACID), -N-acetylglucosaminidase) hydrolyze both peptidoglycan and chitin, meaning that bacterivory may not be distinguished from chitin digestion by lysozyme analyses. Therefore, lysozyme-based analyses of bacterivory should be applied only to samples that do not contain chitinous organisms, and perhaps predators of chitinous organisms. Finally, dissolved organic compounds interfered with fluorometric analysis of enzymatic substrate hydrolysis, leading to an underestimate of L_{ACID) activity. Lysozyme-based analyses of protistan bacterivory developed for use on pelagic samples will be difficult to apply to some inland waters and benthic or littoral samples without precautions to exclude metazoans, chitinolytic enzymes in organisms, and dissolved organic compounds.
10.2307/3226867|Flies of several families (Scatopsidae, Phoridae, Milichiidae) exhibit clear diurnal flight activity patterns in constant total darkness in Dromilly Cave, Jamaica. Most scatopsids were caught on adhesive traps during daytime (>95% between 0630 and 1830) with maximum catches about midday; phorids showed little evidence of cyclic activity although slightly more flew during the last half of the night and early morning (59% between 0000 and 1030); and most milichiids were caught during the day (>70% between 0630 and 1630) with slightly larger catches before midday. Apparently, those insects in the lightless region of the cave that display activity rhythms synchronize their flight activity to the diurnal cycle even though they are unable to see daily light intensity changes outside. Bats flew within the cave throughout the night with activity maxima at dusk and dawn, but they never flew during the middle of the day. We suggest that the flies used bat activity as a secondary zeitgeber.
3227188| The effects of temperature on the development of marine invertebrates have been studied primarily in benthic species. For this study, gametes were collected from Nanomia bijuga, a mesopelagic siphonophore, and were self-crossed. Fertilized eggs kept at 8 and 12C developed more slowly at the lower temperature. Developing stages were preserved after 2, 4, 6, and 9 days of development for comparative analysis with SEM. Concurrent experiments compared survival. Eggs collected from two additional colonies were placed in four temperature treatments: 4, 8, 12, and 18C. The young developed normally in all treatments, but survived longer at lower temperatures. Young of N. bijuga will develop to siphonulae possessing tentacles, nematocysts, and a functional gastrozooid without being fed. Nonetheless, it is likely that food constraints, rather than temperature, limited survival in this study. 
41408393|Adults of the nudibranch mollusc Tritonia diomedea crawl using mucociliary locomotion. Crawling is controlled in part by the large Pedal 5 (Pd5) and Pedal 6 (Pd6) neurons that produce Tritonia Pedal peptides (TPeps). TPeps elicit an increase in ciliary beat frequency, thereby increasing crawling speed. In adults of T. diomedea, an extensive network of TPep-containing neuntes adjacent to the basement membrane of the pedal epithelium delivers TPeps to the ciliated cells. In this study, we show that diverse nudibranchs all have a pattern of TPep-like immunoreactivity similar to that of T. diomedea, with thin tracts of TPep-like immunoreactive (TPep-LIR) neuntes projecting to the epithelial layer. We also show that members of two non-nudibranch gastropod species have a pattern of TPep-innervation similar to that of the nudibranchs. In addition, we characterized two pairs of motor neurons in adults of the nudibranch Armina californica that are possible homologues of the Pd5 and Pd6 cells in T. diomedea. Activity in one of these pairs, the Pedal Peptidergic Dorsal 1 (PPD1) cells, was correlated with mucociliary locomotion. The second pair, the Pedal Peptidergic Ventral 1 cells, shared synchronous synaptic input with the PPD1 cells, a pattern consistent with the shared synaptic input of the T. diomedea Pd5 and Pd6 cells. These findings suggest that the roles of the Pd5 and Pd6 cells as mucociliary motor neurons in nudibranchs are conserved evolutionarily. Additionally, the extensive network of TPep-LIR neurites seen in the foot of T. diomedea appears likely to be a common feature among gastropods.
10.2307/3226846| Gemmules of Ephydatia muelleri, exposed to anoxic conditions (nitrogen) in sealed glass ampules, generally showed no differences from oxic controls in hatchability or hatching rate over exposure periods of 1 to 112 days. Unlike controls, hatching was totally inhibited under anoxia at +20C. Our results directly demonstrate that this species, and probably many freshwater sponges, can survive seasonal anoxia in the gemmule stage. High gemmule survival under nitrogen also permits them to be stored and transported without regard for external temperature. These results are consistent with existence of an ametabolic state under anoxia, but much more detailed work is needed to prove this conjecture. 
23016667|Araucaria forests are among the most threatened biomes of one of the world's 25 biodiversity hotspots, the south Brazilian Atlantic Rain Forest. This study was focused on flatworm community structure in three protected areas located on the eastern border of the Araucaria Plateau in south Brazil. We addressed three main questions: (1) How species-rich are Araucaria forests? (2) Are there any differences in the community structure within the three areas? (3) What is the distribution pattern of land flatworms in this type of forest? A total of 51 flatworm species in ten genera and two subfamilies were found. Non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis showed that the assemblage structure differed within the three areas. The abundance and richness varied in time, being affected by an interaction between season and areas. Araucaria forests on the eastern border of the Araucaria Plateau should be considered a hotspot of land planarian diversity, harboring an estimated 64 species. The high combined species richness in the protected areas studied emphasizes the importance of their preservation. Notwithstanding their close proximity, they are not redundant in maintaining regional biodiversity.
40206215|Freshwater crayfishes of the genus Parastacus are intersex, i. e., show characteristics of both sexes in the same individual; also, intersexuality has been documented in hermaphroditic species. The aim of this study was to analyze the gonads of Parastacus varicosus, characterizing its sexual pattern. The animals were collected at Cova do Touro, Gravatai, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Three sexual forms were identified: intersex females, intersex males, and transitional specimens showing an ovotestes gonad that could only be identified by means of histological analysis. All specimens had two pairs of gonopores and gonoducts. The oviduct had a wider diameter in females, whereas in males the vasa deferentia were more developed. Gonads were composed of two parallel structures located in the cephalothorax. Female gonads were classified into three stages. The presence of transitional specimens may indicate that sex change occurs, with protandric hermaphroditism, as observed in other species of Parastacus. Because previous studies had demonstrated that P. varicosus is a gonochoristic species in a population from Uruguay, the present study addressed the possibility that the sexual pattern depends on differences in environmental factors among populations. To improve understanding of evolution of hermaphroditism in these crustaceans, their reproductive dynamics should be studied, including identification of the factors stimulating male and female functions.
10.2307/3226953|Sipunculus nudus is a large sipunculan that burrows actively in porous marine sands. The body surface is folded into approximately 30 longitudinal ridges that extend along the length of the trunk and introvert. A dermal canal lies beneath each of the ridges and circulates coelomic fluid and hemerythrocytes to within a few micrometers of the body surface. Coelomic fluid enters and leaves the dermal canals through pores leading from the trunk coelom and flows unidirectionally at approximately 0.7 mm/s from posterior to anterior. The flow is generated by cilia on peritoneal cells lining the canals. The volume of the canals is approximately 8% of the total coelomic volume. We suggest that sipunculan species fall into three functional categories based on the body region or regions used for environmental gas exchange. "Tentacle breathers," such as species of Themiste, bore into rocks or micro-oxic sediments and extend their numerous tentacles into the water. Dissolved gases are transported between the tentacular and trunk coelomic cavities via well-developed contractile vessels. "Tentacle and introvert breathers," such as species of Aspidosiphonidae and Phascolosomatidae, lodge the trunk region of the body in the substratum and extend an elongated, thin-walled introvert and tentacles into the water. Their contractile vessels are usually simple unbranched tubes. "Integumentary breathers," such as Sipunculus nudus and other species of Sipunculidae, have integumentary specializations for gas exchange across the entire body surface, but usually small tentacles and often weakly developed contractile vessels.
10.2307/3226966|In this study, we evaluate the aggressive interactions between breeding form (Form I) and non-breeding form (Form II) male crayfishes, Cambarus robustus, during inter-form contests, and compare these data to those from previous studies on intra-form contests in this species. The analysis of inter-form agonistic contests between size-matched crayfishes showed that Form I males were clearly dominant, in most cases, over Form II males. Furthermore, Form I males performed significantly more Lunge and Claws Raised initiation behaviors than Form II males during these contests. These two initiation behaviors strongly indicate the dominant status of individuals in both inter-form and intra-form contests. Form I winners performed significantly more aggressive Claws Raised initiation acts in the inter-form contests, against Form II conspecifics, than in intra-form contests against other Form I conspecifics. Male form is an important variable in the agonistic interactions of cambarid crayfishes. In C. robustus, adult males of both forms coexist in the same populations throughout the year. Thus, Form I and Form II males may compete with one another for access to potentially limiting resources.
40206234|Used singly, the fluorochrome tags tetracycline and calcein have yielded important insights into sea urchin biology, especially regarding growth. We present a new method of tagging using sequential fluorochrome markers, as well as a more precise method of quantifying growth. Such polyfluorochromes enable repeated markings that allow measurement of multiple growth points and unique identification of individuals or groups. We marked sea urchins, Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis, with four fluorochromes: alizarin complexone, calcein, calcein blue, and tetracycline. All fluorochromes marked both by injection and immersion. We examined the clarity of the mark produced with low, metabolically scaled doses, and higher doses similar to those that have been previously used. We tested the effect of fluorochromes on survival, growth, jaw size, and gonad size by marking a size range (3.9-44.3 mm in diameter) of urchins with either one or all four fluorochromes. We quantified growth using a nominal diameter, that is a fitted constant, times the cube root of weight, which increased the precision of measurements by a factor of six relative to measured diameter. Growth rate was a decreasing function of diameter except for a growth lag in the smallest urchins. Growth rate data for all sizes were fitted using: gamma distributions; Tanaka functions; and, for larger sizes, straight lines (von Bertalanffy model). All treatments produced clear marks, with higher doses producing more reliably clear marks. Tetracycline marking did not affect growth; other treatments produced only transient slowing of growth in the marking month. Growth rate, survival, gonad production, and jaw weight did not differ between control and treatments during the following 6 months. Thus, polyfluorochromes produce reliable marks that do not significantly affect growth or gonad production.
40206198|Phenotypic plasticity is the ability of some organisms to exhibit different phenotypes in response to environmental conditions. Many sessile marine invertebrates are morphologically plastic. In colonial cnidarians, compact morphologies are often associated with high-velocity flow regimes, whereas elongated morphologies are associated with calmer water. This ability to alter morphology in response to flow regime likely represents an adaptive strategy: these morphologies may permit efficient suspension feeding and gas exchange while reducing the risk of dislodgment in a particular flow regime. Which flow-related factors (e.g., CO accumulation, drag forces, prey delivery) actually signal a colony to alter its morphology are unclear. In this study, we test the hypothesis that differences in flow regime or some correlate of flow regime (in the absence of differences in prey delivery) signal a colonial cnidarian to change its morphology. To separate prey delivery from water flow, hydroid (Bougainvillia muscus) colonies were fed equivalent amounts in still water, regardless of the flow regime treatment to which they were exposed the rest of the time. Our results show that, regardless of prey delivery, colonies grew in ways characteristic of calm water (with a higher percentage of tall pedicels and secondary hydranths, and fewer basal stolon branches) and of high flow (with more hydranths, free stolons, and a denser basal stolon network) environments. This work suggests that, for this hydroid, prey flux is not a proximate cue mediating morphological plasticity in response to flow regime.
40206186|Light and electron microscopy were used to characterize the structure of secretory cells and their products involved in attachment of two monogenean parasites of fish, in order to understand their role in the attachment process. In Bravohollisia rosetta and Bravohollisia gussevi, peduncular gland cells with two nuclei, granular endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi bodies produce dual electron-dense (DED) secretory bodies with a homogenous electron-dense rind and a less electron-dense fibrillar core (oval and concave in B. rosetta and oval in B. gussevi). The DED secretory bodies are altered as they migrate from the gland cell to the haptoral reservoir, the superficial anchor grooves, and into the gill tissues. The contents of the DED secretory bodies are exocytosed into the reservoirs, fibrillar cores persisting in the matrix, some of which condense, forming highly electron-dense spherical bodies. Small, oval, electron-dense bodies occur in the grooves, while no inclusions are visible in the homogenous exudate within the gill tissues. The single tubular extension of the reservoir enters a bifurcate channel within the anchor via a concealed, crevice-like opening on one side of the anchor. The channel directs secretions into the left and the right grooves via concealed apertures. The secretions, introduced into the tissues by the anchors, probably assist in attachment. The secretions are manifested externally as net-like structures and observed in some cases to be still attached to the point of exudation, on anchors detached from the gill tissues. This suggests that despite having the anchors detached, the worms can still remain anchored to the gill tissues via these net-like structures. Based on this, it is postulated that the net-like secretions probably function as a safety line to anchor the worm during the onset of locomotion and in doing so reduce the risk of tearing host tissues.
4124894|Ovarian ultrastructure and oogenesis in two pycnogonid species, Cilunculus armatus and Ammothella biunguiculata, were investigated. The ovary is morphologically and functionally divided into trunk and pedal parts. The former represents the germarium and contains very young germ cells in a pachytene or postpachytene phase, whereas the latter houses developing previtellogenic and vitellogenic oocytes and represents the vitellarium. Intercellular bridges were occasionally found between young (trunk) germ cells. This indicates that in pycnogonids, as in other animal groups, at the onset of oogenesis clusters of germ cells are generated. As nurse cells are absent in the ovaries of investigated species, the clusters must secondarily split into individual oocytes. In the vitellarium, the oocytes are located outside the ovary. Each oocyte is connected to the ovarian tissue by a stalk composed of several somatic cells. The stalk cells directly associated with the oocyte are equipped with irregular projections that reach the oocyte plasma membrane. This observation suggests that the stalk cells may play a nutritive role. The ooplasm of vitellogenic oocytes comprises mitochondria, free ribosomes, stacks of annulate lamellae, active Golgi complexes, and vesicles derived from these complexes. Within the latter, numerous electron-dense bodies are present. We suggest that these bodies contribute to yolk formation.
10.2307/3226987|We studied morphogenetic events that transform phytoplanktivorous larvae of a naticid gastropod into predatory juveniles that drill and ingest bivalves and ostracods within 3-5 days of metamorphic induction. Larvae of Polinices lewisii were cultured through metamorphosis and histological sections were prepared of 9 larval and 2 post-metamorphic stages. Rapid, metamorphic transformation of feeding and gut structures is accomplished by destruction of larval tissues (velum, large areas of larval esophagus, and gastric shield of the stomach) and by prior formation during the larval stage of various juvenile/adult structures (accessory boring organ, esophageal gland, and buccal mass with jaws, cartilages, intrinsic musculature, salivary glands, and radula). Advanced differentiation of the post-metamorphic buccal mass during the larval stage is possible because the buccal cavity and radular sac develop from a semi-isolated outpocketing of the larval esophagus that does not interfere with the functioning of the larval esophagus. At metamorphosis, the buccal cavity punches out a new mouth opening in the ventral lip of the larval mouth, the larval mouth is sealed shut, and the distal part of the larval esophagus is destroyed. The epithelia forming the oral tube and buccal cavity in predatory adults of P. lewisii have a different developmental origin than the corresponding epithelia in many other adult gastropods.
4621909|Because the taxonomy of marine sponges is based primarily on morphological characters that can display a high degree of phenotypic plasticity, current classifications may not always reflect evolutionary relationships. To assess phylogenetic relationships among sponges in the order Verongida, we examined 11 verongid species, representing six genera and four families. We compared the utility of morphological and molecular data in verongid sponge systematics by comparing a phylogeny constructed from a morphological character matrix with a phylogeny based on nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences. The morphological phylogeny was not well resolved below the ordinal level, likely hindered by the paucity of characters available for analysis, and the potential plasticity of these characters. The molecular phylogeny was well resolved and robust from the ordinal to the species level. We also examined the morphology of spongin fibers to assess their reliability in verongid sponge taxonomy. Fiber diameter and pith content were highly variable within and among species. Despite this variability, spongin fiber comparisons were useful at lower taxonomic levels (i.e., among congeneric species); however, these characters are potentially homoplasic at higher taxonomic levels (i.e., between families). Our molecular data provide good support for the current classification of verongid sponges, but suggest a re-examination and potential reclassification of the genera Aiolochroia and Pseudoceratina. The placements of these genera highlight two current issues in morphology-based sponge taxonomy: intermediate character states and undetermined character polarity.
10.2307/3226914|In some mayfly nymphs, family Baetidae, flat-tipped sensilla occur on antennal segments and on other body parts (tergal borders and cerci). These fine, flat-tipped setae have an apical pore, a basal tubular body, and a branched dendrite along the shaft, an organization consistent with a chemo-mechanosensory function. Phylogenetic considerations are presented on the basis of a survey on the presence or absence of flat-tipped sensilla in some members of the Baetidae. The results of this investigation, and those of other authors, support the hypothesis that this sensillum is an apomorphic character.
10.2307/3227005| Sagittocysts are extrusomes found only in acoel turbellarians. They are needlelike secretory products, on the order of 18-50 m long and 1-5 m wide, and consist of a fibrous cortex, a central filament, and an intermediate lucent layer. We discovered sagittocysts in Convolutriloba longifissura, for which they had not been known before, by using confocal microscopy and a phalloidin-conjugated fluorescent stain that strongly labeled a mantle of muscle around the distal neck of the sagittocyst-secreting cell, the sagittocyte. The muscle mantle apparently plays a role in ejecting the sagittocyst. Positions of the sagittocysts revealed by confocal microscopy suggests their role in defense as well as in prey capture. By electron microscopy, the differentiation of sagittocysts was evident in the proximal part of the sagittocyte. The muscle mantle on the neck of the sagittocyte is conical in shape; its ribbon-like myocyte enwraps the neck in a tight spiral. Extrusion of sagittocysts could be induced by stimulation with electrical pulses, light pulses, or weak hydrochloric acid; only the whole sagittocyst was ejected, not its central filament. The presence of sagittocysts in species of Convolutriloba is sufficient to reassign the genus to the family Sagittiferidae. We establish the new subfamily Convolutrilobinae, with 3 species in the genus Convolutriloba, and new subfamilies for the remaining sagittiferids as well. As extrusomes, sagittocysts are comparable to nematocysts, colloblasts, rhabdites, and other extrusomes common especially to lower eumetazoans, and the origin of all such extrusomes may correlate with the origin of the eumetazoan gut. 
40981227|Macrobrachium ohione is a migratory (amphidromous) river shrimp (Decapoda, Caridea) that may be parasitized by the branchial parasite Probopyrus pandalicola (Isopoda, Bopyridae). The parasite disrupts gonadal maturation and spawning in female shrimps, resulting in the total loss of reproduction. Shrimps are usually infected by bopyrid parasites during the late zoeal or early postlarval stages; in this study, we investigated the apparent parasite infection of adult shrimps. We analyzed the relationships between parasite body size (total length) and host shrimp body size (carapace length) to test the hypothesis that parasite infection of adult shrimps occurs during the shrimps' reproductive migrations. The results presented here indicate that infection of adult shrimps is common in M. ohione in the Atchafalaya and Mississippi Rivers, Louisiana, USA. In the two upriver sites sampled, Butte La Rose (BLR) and River Bend (RB), parasite size was not associated with host body size. In these locations, many parasitized adult M. ohione were infected with immature P. pandalicola (40.3% in BLR and 51.2% in RB), indicating that the shrimps were adults at the time of infection. A possible explanation is that when female shrimps enter the estuary to hatch larvae, they molt and spawn another brood. The smaller male shrimps that accompany the females downstream are also assumed to molt and continue growth. The intermediate host of the parasite is an estuarine copepod, and thus the parasite cryptoniscus larva that infects the host shrimp is primarily estuarine as well. Newly molted shrimps have soft cuticles, which may facilitate their infection by parasite cryptonisci. Our conclusion is that most infections of adult shrimps occur during their migration into estuarine waters, the primary habitat of infective parasite larvae, and that host vulnerability is probably increased following host ecdysis.
40206197|Male polyps of the antipatharian Cirrhipathes sp., collected along the coral reef of Siladen Island (Sulawesi, Indonesia), were studied in order to gain an insight into the reproductive biology. Spermatocysts (maximum size 120 m) are located within the primary gametogenic mesenteries and are separated by mesenteric cell cytoplasmic extensions. Sperm, maturing along radial rows, have a fairly round shape and contain a series of electron-dense vesicles in the apical nuclear region. A single mitochondrion flanks the nucleus. A peculiar cup-like electron-dense body, edged with regularly spaced electron-dense granules, is interposed between the nucleus and the tail, and delimits a central region that includes two centrioles. Cross-sections of the cup-like body reveal that the distal centriole has a pericentriolar system, consisting of nine arms arranged in a radial pattern. Each arm branches into three processes that are connected to the electron-dense granules. Indirect evidence of spawning is derived from the accumulation of sperm in the gastric cavity. This process takes place through the lysis of the cells bordering the mesenteries. Intact cells of this bordering layer appear to be involved in the phagocytosis of non-expelled gametes.
4621885| Thousands of minute scissurellid gastropods (Vetigastropoda: Scissurellidae) were observed and collected at floating light traps in Moorea, French Polynesia, where a mass spawning event occurred on November 11, 2002. More than 20,000 live snails were recovered from the traps, and epidemic spawning continued in the laboratory, where clouds of white sperm and red-orange eggs were broadcast into the water. No aggregations of this magnitude have been reported previously in vetigastropods, nor is the capacity for sustained swimming known from other vetigastropod taxa. Snails had emerged from a local benthic habitat of coral sand and swum through 2 m of water to reach the traps. Scanning electron micrographs of the ornate shells confirm the identity of the most abundant species as Scissurella spinosa, with lesser numbers of Sinezona plicata. Our observations indicate that scissurellids are not exclusively benthic and that they are not rare, even though they have seldom been collected and studied alive. Because little is known about the basic biology and anatomy of scissurellids and because their position within the basal Gastropoda is poorly resolved, we include information on the design and construction of inexpensive light traps to promote comparative investigation of other poorly known species. 
41408391|The sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima is a common member of intertidal communities along the west coast of North America, and can experience extended periods of increased temperature during summertime low tides. Internal body temperatures of emersed individuals of A. elegantissima were monitored in a laboratory wind tunnel and in the field, and factors influencing the anemones' thermal experience were examined. Larger body size and aggregation with conspecifics slowed body temperature increases in controlled wind tunnel conditions. In the field, anemones in the interior of an aggregation stayed cooler than those on the edges, and microhabitat features related to light exposure and surface orientation overshadowed any direct effects of body size. In the warmest month only (July), aggregations of A. elegantissima were significantly larger at the upper limit of their distribution than they were at the mid and lower limits, suggesting aggregation in high intertidal zones may be a behavioral response to desiccation and temperature stress. As this sea anemone can host multiple species of symbiotic algae with different thermal tolerances, the ability to slow body heating may affect the type of algae hosted and thus the potential contribution of this abundant anemone to primary production in the intertidal zone.
10.2307/3227047|Scrupocellaria ferox forms erect colonies whose budding pattern is similar to that of early fossil encrusting cheilostomes, except that peripheral lateral buds are suppressed into heterozoids, and stolons and flexible cuticular joints are present, presumably as a requirement of the erect colony form. The ovicell of S. ferox is a flattened chamber confluent with the zoid distal to the fertile zoid. The ovicell aperture is occluded by a muscular ovicell plug evaginated from the fertile zoid. The embryo more than doubles in size, probably nourished through the placental epithelium of the plug. The operculum and vestibule are strongly reduced. We propose a hypothesis to explain evolution of S. ferox and related species from encrusting ancestors with free gamete release and planktotrophic larvae. (1) Embryos of an ancestral cheilostome began to adhere to the base of the everted vestibule, which caused them to be withdrawn into the introverted vestibule when the lophophore was retracted. (2) Placental nutrition developed, accompanied by hypertrophy of the epithelium of the adherent vestibular wall. (3) Brooded embryos became so large that they no longer could be contained in the vestibule, but remained outside, adherent to evaginated vestibular wall. (4) The setigerous collar (and in Scrupocellaria the operculum) were lost because of this vestibular eversion. (5) The ovicell evolved from a pair of proximal spines on the next distal zoid, which were modified to enclose the vulnerable embryo. (6) The erect colony form of Scrupocellaria was attained, but only after ovicells evolved. This hypothesis implies that the vestibule is the essential part of cheilostome brooding and that external structures, including ovicells, developed subsequently as protection for the embryo. If correct, this hypothesis could account for much of the structural variation among cheilostome brood chambers.
40206238|Larval gut characters of 45 species of black flies, representing 17 subgenera and 15 genera, were studied for their utility in taxon diagnosis and phylogenetic inference. Phasecontrast and scanning electron microscopy revealed a wealth of new characters in the esophageal armature of the foregut. Larval gut morphology, particularly characters of the esophageal armature, varied significantly among taxa, permitting generic diagnoses. A cladogram inferred from 13 gut characters supported a sister-group relationship between Parasimulium and the remaining simuliids, but did not show a strong phylogenetic signal for the current, well-supported concept of tribal level monophyly.
4124906|Osmotic stress associated with the freshwater environment and desiccation stress associated with the terrestrial environment may have a shortening effect on the length of the innervation of crustacean aesthetascs. Physical stress of the littoral environment may have a similar effect on the length of the cuticular portion of aesthetascs. The aesthetascs of crustaceans that inhabit these environments share a similar ultrastructural feature, which may help animals cope with these environmental stresses. This ultrastructural feature, the position of the basal bodies proximal to the lumen of the aesthetasc, is absent from the aesthetascs of crustaceans that occur in the typical marine environment. Interestingly, the ultrastructural feature associated with these stressful habitats is present in the peduncular aesthetascs of the remipede Speleonectes tanumekes, even though the environmental stresses that may invoke the reduction of aesthetascs are absent in the marine-cave environment where this animal occurs. The importance of the sensitivity of aesthetascs for survival in this lightless environment may result in a selective pressure that favors basal bodies to be positioned proximal to the lumen of the aesthetasc.
40206218|Sea urchin embryos form an endoskeletal spicule composed of calcium carbonate and occluded matrix proteins. The accumulation of the LSM34 spicule matrix protein in embryos of Lytechinus pictus (and its ortholog, SpSM50, in Strongylocentrotus purpuratus) has been inhibited using morpholino antisense oligonucleotides. The inhibition, using relatively high levels of antisense reagent, can result in the complete absence of spicules, and the complete loss of immunoreactive LSM34/SpSM50, as judged by immunostaining and Western blotting. Primary mesenchyme cells (PMCs) do form and express PMC-specific cell surface antigens despite this inhibition. However, these anti-LSM34/SpSM50-treated embryos do not accumulate SM30 protein, another major matrix protein. Hence, both the initiation of spicule formation and subsequent morphogenesis require LSM34 accumulation in L. pictus, and the accumulation of its ortholog, SpSM50, in S. purpuratus.
3701491|Identification of specimens in the genus Polymerurus (Gastrotricha, Chaetonotida) is reported for the first time from Australia. The genus includes 3 species from a freshwater lake in southern Queensland. Two species, Polymerurus rhomboides and P. nodicaudus, are well-known cosmopolitans: P. rhomboides is now known from every continent except Antarctica, and P. nodicaudus from all continents except Africa and Antarctica. An ultrastructural description of the cuticle in P. nodicaudus is provided and confirms earlier observations on the structure of spined scales in other species of Chaetonotida, suborder Paucitubulatina. The utility of cuticle ultrastructure is discussed in reference to the search for characters defining higher-level taxa in the Paucitubulatina. A new species, P. andreae, also cohabits the Queensland lake and is distinguished by the following combination of characters: wide mouth ring; pharynx with terminal bulb; simple spineless scales on the dorsal, lateral, and ventrolateral body surfaces; and a column of ventral interciliary scales in rectangular, ovoid, and intermediate shapes.
3227065|We investigated the seasonal prevalence of reproductive activities and of the development of brooded propagules in an intertidal sea anemone, Anthopleura sp., on the rocky shore of Mutsu Bay, in northern Japan. A monthly examination of anemones, by dissection and histological techniques, revealed no sign of gonad development, but did reveal that they produce and internally brood propagules throughout the year. Release of propagules was observed in the field. This anemone population appears to be entirely asexual and agametic, and may persist solely through clonal propagation.
40206201|The marine snail Trichotropis cancellata possesses hairy projections of periostracum (outer shell layer) whose function is unknown. Although rigid shell projections in molluscs have been studied extensively, the selective advantage of flexible extensions of periostracum is less clear. None of the functions proposed previously for periostracum (e.g., protection from erosion and boring) are promoted when it is drawn into hair- like projections. We investigated hypothetical functions that may be served by flexible periostracal hairs, including predator deterrence, alteration of flow vectors to promote feeding or affect turbulence dynamics during freefall, and providing a differential substratum for epibionts. Our laboratory results indicate that crabs, Cancer oregonensis, and sea stars, Pycnopodia helianthoides, consumed snails with the periostracum removed more often than snails with an intact hairy periostracum. However, in both predatory species, some individuals showed no significant preference, and another crab species (Cancer productus) did not strongly discriminate based on the shell periostracum. Field studies showed no difference in the rate of predation on hairy-versus smooth-shelled snails. The hairs did not alter flow around the shells consistently in laboratory flume experiments. Additionally, hairy-and smooth- shelled kleptoparasitic snails grew at rates that were statistically indistinguishable, while hairy, suspension-feeding snails grew more slowly. The hairs did not impact the orientation of a snail after a falling event or the time to righting after a fall. The presence of the hairs did deter settlement by barnacles. We conclude that the hairy periostracum acts as a slight deterrent to crab and sea star predators and as a stronger deterrent to the settlement of large calcareous epibionts, such as barnacles, that would increase the weight the snail must bear and potentially increase drag.
3227191| Reproduction and development in 5 brittle stars: Ophiactis resiliens, Ophionereis fasciata, Ophiothrix caespitosa, Ophiothrix spongicola, and Ophionereis schayeri were investigated in a series of laboratory spawning and fertilization trials. Ophiactis resiliens spawned in 90% of trials, both spontaneously (in response to disturbance) and after temperature and light shock. Ophiothrix caespitosa and Ophiothrix spongicola spawned in 100% of trials, largely due to spontaneous gamete release. In contrast, Ophionereis fasciata and Ophionereis schayeri spawned in only 32% and 50% of trials respectively, and only in response to temperature and light shock. All 5 species required an aggregation of males and females for spawning and fertilization. The breeding periods of each species, estimated from the spawning trials, are reported. Eggs of Ophiactis resiliens, Ophionereis fasciata, Ophiothrix caespitosa, and Ophiothrix spongicola were 83 m, 99 m, 105 m, and 128 m in diameter, respectively, and all underwent planktotrophic development through an ophiopluteus. Eggs of Ophionereis schayeri were 241 m in diameter and underwent lecithotrophic development through an armless bilateral larva that secondarily transformed into a radial vitellaria. The two Ophionereis species, with differing modes of development, provide an ideal opportunity to examine life-history evolution within a clade; however, these species were the most difficult to spawn. Ophiactis resiliens and the two Ophiothrix species spawned readily when they were visually mature at collection, and are thus useful species for developmental studies. 
10.2307/3226895|The serotonergic elements of the nervous system and the morphology of the copulatory stylet and gland cells in the pharyngeal gland ring were studied in two closely related turbellarians, Macrostomum hystricinum marinum and M. pusillum. Both species belong to the monophyletic Macrostomum hystricinum species group (clade), in which they are members of two separate subclades. The morphological differences observed in widely distributed meiobenthic turbellarians may reflect an ancient speciation process. Our results support the hypothesis of loss of paratomy in the Macrostomida. Immunoreactivity to serotonin (5-HT) was shown by means of a whole-mount immunofluorescence technique. Comparison of the 5-HT-positive elements of the nervous system revealed the same basic pattern, but definite differences in the organization of the longitudinal nerve cords, the commissures, the pharyngeal nervous system, and the neuropile of the brain. Our data suggest the existence of two subclades with distinct morphology. The serotonergic elements of the nervous system support the possibility of an early separation of the two species. The single pharyngeal gland cell type observed in M. pusillum, on the other hand, allows arguments for either an early or late separation of the subclades. The M. hystricinum clade may be particularly useful for further testing congruence between morphological differences and molecular sequence analysis. Furthermore, our data suggest that asexual reproduction through paratomy is correlated with the presence of numerous serially arranged serotonergic neurons along the main nerve cords. The concentration and reduction of serotonergic neurons at the postpharyngeal commissure in M. h. marinum and M. pusillum may be correlated with the loss of asexual reproduction and the loss of regeneration of the posterior end of the animals.
25623063|Whale carcasses, sunken wood, and cold seeps provide organically enriched oases in the food-limited deep-sea benthos. At three such enriched habitats in Monterey Bay, CA, at a depth of nearly 3000 m, we observed pycnogonids (sea spiders) of at least two species, Colossendeis gigas and C. japonica, feeding on sea anemones that were commonly found there. Submersible remotely operated vehicles provided direct observations of feeding, as well as high definition video and photographic images. We recorded the co-occurrence of both pycnogonids and prey anemones during ten of 12 visits during 2002-2006. Anemones and pycnogonids were conspicuously more abundant at these oases than in the surrounding benthos. The sedentary anemone Anthosactis pearseae was attached directly to whalebones while the pom-pom anemone, Liponema brevicornis, was found resting on soft sediment, rolling in benthic currents, or accumulating where these currents were disrupted by topography, as at whale falls, wood falls, and clam fields. Both pycnogonid species were observed feeding on these anemones, either as predators or as micropredators.
4621920| Eunicella singularis is a gorgonian species whose members are abundant in hardbottom sublittoral communities of the Mediterranean Sea. The reproductive biology in this species has been examined to better understand the ability in this species to recover from recent mass mortality events. Eunicella singularis is a stable, gonochoric, iteroparous species that reproduces annually and exhibits a seasonal pattern of gametogenesis characterized by a single annual maturation of the gametes. The sex ratio did not significantly differ from 1:1. Oogenesis lasted 13-17 months, beginning between February and June, and ending with the release of 0.7 planula larvae per polyp between late May and July of the following year. The diameter of mature oocytes ranged 450-860 m. Spermatogenesis was much shorter than oogenesis and occurred over 5-6 months. Gonadal production of both sexes increased in spring and culminated with the spawning of male colonies in late May-June. Fertilization of oocytes and development of the planula larvae occurred within the polyps of female colonies. Planula release was observed in June and July. The patterns emerging from this and previous studies on sexual reproduction of Mediterranean gorgonians suggest that investment in gonad development appears to be related to resource availability. 
3227246|Previous studies have shown variable patterns of paternity after multiple mating, and also variation in sperm storage among individuals of Arianta arbustorum, which suggests that the spermatheca may influence paternity in this promiscuous land snail. To identify possible morphological correlates of sperm manipulation, we investigated arrangement and ultrastructure of the muscles of the spermatheca. The musculature surrounding the 2-9 spermathecal tubules is arranged in a complex three dimensional network. In addition, each tubule has a thin sheath in which longitudinally oriented cells make up the innermost layer. Usually, the smooth muscle cells are enclosed by connective tissue. Only occasionally is direct muscle-muscle contact established through dense plaques. The short thick filaments, their small diameter, the relatively weak development of the tubular system and sarcoplasmic reticulum, and the low density of mitochondria indicate that the muscle cells contract relatively fast but with little strength, that they recover slowly, and have low endurance. A single muscle cell may be innervated by several axons and one axon may contact several muscle cells. Combining evidence of the present paper and a foregoing investigation on the spermathecal epithelium, we suggest that the main function of the spermathecal muscles is to expel sperm stored for fertilization, while the ciliation of the common duct is probably responsible for the distribution of sperm among the tubules.
3227081| The monogeneans Decacotyle lymmae and D. tetrakordyle (Monocotylidae: Decacotylinae), from gills of the dasyatid stingrays Taeniura lymma and Pastinachus sephen, respectively, have a single aperture for adhesive secretion on each side of the anterior ventrolateral region. Rod-shaped bodies (S1) and electron-dense spherical secretion (S2) exit through specialised ducts opening adjacent to one another within these apertures. The S1 bodies are 230  11 nm wide and 4 m long in D. lymmae and 240  9 nm wide and 3.3 m long in D. tetrakordyle. The S2 bodies have a diameter of 88  7 nm in D. lymmae and 65  6 nm in D. tetrakordyle. The apertures are unusual in being extremely small (internal diameter, 3-5 m). Each aperture has a slit-like surface opening as small as 160 nm wide, surrounded by muscle fibres indicating that they may be opened and closed. The aperture is also surrounded and underlain by muscle fibres that may aid in secretion from, or even eversion of, the tissue within the aperture. Sensilla/cilia are also found within the apertures. Additional secretions from anteromedian and anterolateral glands (body glands), each containing granular secretions, occur in profusion and exit anteriorly and posteriorly to the position of the apertures, through duct openings in the general body tegument. These granular secretions do not appear to be associated with anterior adhesion. Both species show similarities in aperture, underlying tissue, sense organ, and secretion detail, in accordance with findings from other monogenean genera, and which supports the importance of such data for phylogenetic studies. 
10.2307/3226855|Differences between paired structures sometimes occur normally, but random variation can give insight into developmental stability and environmental stress. In clypeasteroid sand dollars, the modified ambulacra, or petals, are among the most conspicuous bilaterally paired structures. In this study, all petal pairs deviated from perfect bilateral symmetry. Analysis of the anterior and posterior petals of Encope micropora suggested that they were antisymmetric. The anterior petals of small and large Mellita tenuis, and the posterior petals of large M. tenuis and of Arachnoides placenta, showed directional asymmetry with the left side larger than the right. The variation in the posterior petals of small M. tenuis and the anterior petals of A. placenta did not differ from fluctuating asymmetry. The posterior petals of small M. tenuis collected two years apart from the same population had similar fluctuating asymmetry indices. Based on the relative indices scaled for size, the indices for the anterior petals of A. placenta were two to four times greater than the indices for the posterior petals of M. tenuis. The same set of petals could not be compared across species as problems with size, antisymmetry, and/or directional asymmetry occurred in a disjunct pattern across species. Differences in symmetry between the anterior and posterior areas could result from an uncoupling of their development. The effect of the offset stomach and intestine in the body, resulting from the flattened body-form, is the probable explanation of the directional asymmetry producing larger petals on the left side. It is not known whether this directional asymmetry has a genetic basis or is the result of pressure from the stomach contents.
25623044|When individual placozoans, Trichoplax adhaerens, were fed to polyps of the hydroid Podocoryna carnea, the polyps became paralyzed in all 27 trials. In one instance the hydroid polyp died and in five instances a fragment of the placozoan survived. The time to recovery from paralysis varied with the relative size of the polyp and the placozoan. Placozoans were disassociated into separate cells and then reaggregated by centrifugation to produce pellets of tissue lacking the vesicles called shiny spheres, normally abundant in the upper epithelium. We fed pellets of two size classes to the hydroid polyps. When the placozoan pellet was smaller than the hydroid, paralysis was eliminated in nine of ten trials. When the placozoan pellet was comparable in size to the polyp, paralysis occurred but the recovery time was substantially reduced, compared with trials in which polyps were fed intact placozoans possessing shiny spheres. These results support a function of shiny spheres in anti-predator defense.
3227112|Here we describe a new bdelloid rotifer, Abrochtha carnivora n.sp., that preys on other bdelloids and monogonont rotifers. This is the first report of predatory behavior in bdelloids. Despite this extraordinary behavior, A. carnivora displays no major structural deviation from the standard body plan for members of the bdelloid family Philodinavidae: body with head (with ciliated corona), trunk, and foot, mastax with ramate trophi. The finding of such a carnivorous species, unique for the class, appears to contradict the common assumption that the wholly parthenogenetic bdelloids are evolutionary dead-ends.
10.2307/3226990|The medial epidermal surface of the buccal tentacles of the synaptid holothuroid, Leptosynapta galliennei, bears 5-30 ciliated cups. Each cup consists of an epidermal elevation with a central invagination forming a small pit. Whereas the epidermis of the outer lining of the cups is similar to that on the adjacent tentacle, the epidermis lining each pit consists of ciliated cells gathered together in a central bulb and surrounded by elongated support cells. The basal parts of ciliated cells are tapered and, together, form a nerve bundle entering the intradermal nerve plexus of the tentacle. We suggest that the ciliated cells and thus the entire ciliated cup has chemo-sensory function. It is further suggested that the cups allow the holothuroid to test the properties of the surrounding water and could also provide information on the palatibility of collected food material.
3701465|The tunic of colonial ascidians of the genus Cystodytes is a dynamic and complex system where a variety of cell types and microsymbionts are found. The tunic is also the site where pyridoacridine alkaloids involved in chemical defense are found. We wanted to explore the composition of symbionts and tunic cell types and their relationship with localization of alkaloids in three color morphs (usually attributed to the species Cystodytes dellechiajei). Tunic morphology was studied by means of transmission electron microscopy, and energy-dispersive X-ray microanalysis was performed for indirect localization of the bioactive alkaloids produced by these morphotypes. The main cell types identified are bladder cells, pigment cells, amebocytes, phagocytes, and morula cells. Amebocytes include several subtypes that may correspond to a sequence of ontogenetic stages; these cells also seem to give rise to other cell types. In the three morphotypes, the morphology of the tunic and tunic cells is basically the same. The alkaloids are localized in the pigment cells. At least three types of bacteria are present in the tunic, but they are scarce and do not store the targeted bioactive alkaloids. Our results indicate that, although pyridoacridine alkaloids are present in these ascidians, as in a variety of animal phyla, their wide taxonomic range is not necessarily the result of production by common microsymbionts, but rather of the convergent evolution of a successful biosynthetic pathway.
3227138|Ciliary filter-feeding structures of gymnolaemate bryozoans-adults of Flustrellidra hispida and Alcyonidium gelatinosum, larvae of Membranipora sp.-were studied with SEM. In F. hispida and A. gelatinosum, the distal part of each tentacle has a straight row of stiff laterofrontal cilia which carry out "ciliary sieving" to capture suspended food particles that are subsequently transported downward towards the mouth by tentacle flicking; both structure and function resemble those of stenolaemate tentacles. The proximal part of the tentacle and of the ciliary ridge of a cyphonautes larva have strikingly similar structures, except that the laterofrontal cells are monociliate in the adults and biciliate in the larvae. The laterofrontal cells of the tentacles are arranged in a zigzag row and their cilia form two parallel rows, a frontal and a lateral row. The latter probably forms the sieve of stiff filter cilia in front of the water-pumping lateral cilia, whereas the frontal row appears to be held close to the frontal ciliary band of the tentacle. The biciliate laterofrontal cells of the cyphonautes larva have the cilia arranged in similar rows. The detailed morphological similarities between the ciliary bands of adult and larval filtering structures suggest that the feeding mechanisms are similar, contrary to what has been previously thought.
3227073|We have explored the process by which crinoids increase arm number as they grow. Two hypotheses have been proposed: (1) arm autotomy with subsequent bifurcation and regeneration of a pair of arms, and (2) growth of a pinnule into an additional arm. We have traced the development of Oxycomanthus japonicus for about a year after fertilization and provide the first confirmation that the number of arms increases by autotomy, bifurcation, and subsequent regeneration of a pair of arms. The next such addition tends to occur at some distance from the previous pair. Thus, increase of arm number takes place in such a manner that the density of the arms remains relatively constant, and an efficient filtration fan for feeding is maintained. Although arm autotomy in crinoids has been considered to occur only as a response to physical or chemical disturbance, the present results suggest that autotomy also occurs as a specific, intrinsically programmed event during normal development.
40206248|Ophiopeza spinosa, a small ophiodermatid ophiuroid, is locally abundant in shallow water rubble habitat at Lizard Island, northern Great Barrier Reef, Australia. This species is a protantric hermaphrodite. The switch from reproduction as a male to a female is progressive, involving a simultaneous hermaphrodite as a transitional stage. Members of O. spinosa brood their young in the respiratory bursae. Cohorts of eggs (280 m diameter) develop synchronously in the gonad and are spawned as a group into the bursa. Despite nonpelagic development, the larvae of O. spinosa are a vitellaria type typical of broadcast-spawning ophiodermatids, providing a link to an ancestral form with a dispersive larva. The vitellaria has prominent ciliary bands and swims in the same manner as pelagic vitellaria. In vitro, the larvae developed to the juvenile stage independent of the parent. There was no evidence of extraembryonic nutrition; a proportion of the maternal provisions were retained through metamorphosis. This is the first ophiuroid known to brood a pelagic-type vitellaria larva. Juveniles appear to leave the parent at the two-to three-arm segment stage, slightly larger than the newly settled juveniles of ophiodermatids with pelagic vitellariae. The presence of functional larvae in the bursa suggests a recent switch to the incubatory life history in O. spinosa and the possibility of a reversal back to a dispersive life history. O. spinosa have the potential to both brood and broadcast their young.
3227145| The asymmetry displayed by the body plan of gastropods has been directly or indirectly attributed to an evolutionary process called torsion. Torsion is defined as a rotation of 180 between the cephalopodium (head and foot) and visceropallium (visceral organs, mantle, mantle cavity, and shell). During development, the displacement of anatomical components occurs during a process called "ontogenetic torsion." Although ontogenetic torsion is central to theories of gastropod evolution, surprisingly few studies have documented actual tissue movements during the development of asymmetry in gastropods. We investigated the development of the mantle cavity and pleurovisceral nerve connective (visceral nerve loop) in the caenogastropods Amphissa columbiana and Euspira lewisii, because displacements of both of these structures are interpreted as major consequences of torsion. Scanning electron micrographs, histological sections, and immunofluorescence images showed that the developing visceropallium twists by 90 relative to the cephalopodium, the mantle cavity initially forms on the right side, and displacements of the visceral nerve loop become evident on the left side before the right side. A developmental stage in which the mantle cavity is confined to the right side has also been reported in members of the Vetigastropoda and Heterobranchia. We suggest that further comparative studies should test the hypothesis that early development throughout the Gastropoda converges on an embryonic organization in which the mantle cavity and anus are located laterally, despite clade-specific differences in developmental patterns both before and after this stage. 
40206246|Two species of earthworms were used to unravel why some earthworm species crawl out of the soil at night after heavy rain. Specimens of Amynthas gracilis, which show this behavior, were found to have poor tolerance to water immersion and a diurnal rhythm of oxygen consumption, using more oxygen at night than during the day. The other species, Pontoscolex corethrurus, survived longer under water and was never observed to crawl out of the soil after heavy rain; its oxygen consumption was not only lower than that of A. gracilis but also lacked a diurnal rhythm. Accordingly, we suggest that earthworms have at least two types of physical strategies to deal with water immersion and attendant oxygen depletion of the soil. The first is represented by A. gracilis; they crawl out of the waterlogged soil, especially at night when their oxygen consumption increases. The other strategy, shown by P. corethrurus, allows the earthworms to survive at a lower concentration of oxygen due to lower consumption; these worms can therefore remain longer in oxygen-poor conditions, and never crawl out of the soil after heavy rain.
3227149| A light and electron immunohistochemical study was carried out on the body wall muscles of the chaetognath Sagitta friderici for the presence of a variety of contractile proteins (myosin, paramyosin, actin), regulatory proteins (tropomyosin, troponin), and structural proteins (-actinin, desmin, vimentin). The primary muscle (~80% of body wall volume) showed the characteristic structure of transversely striated muscles, and was comparable to that of insect asynchronous flight muscles. In addition, the body wall had a secondary muscle with a peculiar structure, displaying two sarcomere types (S1 and S2), which alternated along the myofibrils. S1 sarcomeres were similar to those in the slow striated fibers of many invertebrates. In contrast, S2 sarcomeres did not show a regular sarcomeric pattern, but instead exhibited parallel arrays of 2 filament types. The thickest filaments (~10-15 nm) were arranged to form lamellar structures, surrounded by the thinnest filaments (~6 nm). Immunoreactions to desmin and vimentin were negative in both muscle types. The primary muscle exhibited the classical distribution of muscle proteins: actin, tropomyosin, and troponin were detected along the thin filaments, whereas myosin and paramyosin were localized along the thick filaments; immunolabeling of -actinin was found at Z-bands. Immunoreactions in the S1 sarcomeres of the secondary muscle were very similar to those found in the primary muscle. Interestingly, the S2 sarcomeres of this muscle were labeled with actin and tropomyosin antibodies, and presented no immunoreactions to both myosin and paramyosin. -Actinin in the secondary muscle was only detected at the Z-lines that separate S1 from S2. These findings suggest that S2 are not true sarcomeres. Although they contain actin and tropomyosin in their thinnest filaments, their thickest filaments do not show myosin or paramyosin, as the striated muscle thick myofilaments do. These peculiar S2 thick filaments might be an uncommon type of intermediate filament, which were labeled neither with desmin or vimentin antibodies. 
23016670|Semelparity is one of the most drastic reproductive strategies found among marine invertebrates. It is frequently found in species whose members have small adult sizes and brood embryos internally. In this study, we describe the reproductive strategy of the bivalve Gaimardia bahamondei to explore the possible causes of the association between semelparity and internal brooding. Males of this species exhibit continuous gonadal activity throughout the breeding season. Apparently continuous spawning of sperm is associated with an abundance of captured sperm in the adfrontal region of the gill filaments of both males and females. Females are capable of brooding three cohorts of embryos simultaneously while also producing three new cohorts of oocytes. This suggests that females are able to generate at least six cohorts of embryos during the breeding season. Embryos are brooded in the suprabranchial chamber and are individually surrounded by a membrane with a projecting peduncle; embryos are anchored by this peduncle to the adfrontal region of the gill filaments. Members of the youngest cohort differ in size, color, and shell ornamentation from members of the two older cohorts. There is no difference between members of the two older cohorts in size, but there is with respect to coloring and shell ornamentation. The importance of the embryonic cohorts in terms of their percentage of the total number of embryos varied among brooding females, suggesting among-female variation in the timing of release of the oldest cohort of embryos. Members of this cohort break loose from the gills, lose their surrounding membrane, and fall into the ventral region of the suprabranchial chamber, from which they are evacuated to the exterior. Continuous sperm production in males and the production of at least six cohorts of embryos in females suggest that the costs of reproduction are high, which may partly explain the semelparity identified in this species.
10.2307/3226922|The cardiovascular system of the American lobster includes a large muscular heart that pumps blood into seven arteries, each of which ramifies extensively. Portions of the system may be viewed as relatively primitive, while others are highly derived. We have confirmed earlier findings that the sternal artery is not a single vessel, but a paired structure. The sternal artery and its partner closely resemble the medial branches of the segmental lateral vessels from the dorsal abdominal artery in anterior segments of the abdomen, and they may be homologous. We report that the walls of the dorsal abdominal artery contain blocks of striated muscle cells and that the artery can be induced to contract in response to electrical stimulation or perfusion with proctolin. These observations provide the basis for an attempt to trace the evolution of the heart and arteries from that of primitive malacostracans to its state of development in lobsters.
3227133|Neurons of sea anemone tentacles receive stimuli via sensory cells and process and transmit information via a plexus of nerve fibers. The nerve plexus is best revealed by scanning electron microscopy of epidermal peels of the tentacles. The nerve plexus lies above the epidermal muscular layer where it appears as numerous parallel longitudinal and short interconnected nerve fibers in Calliactis parasitica. Bipolar and multipolar neurons are present and neurites form interneuronal and neuromuscular synaptic contacts. Transmission electron microscopy of cross sections of tentacles of small animals, both C. parasitica and Aiptasia pallida, reveals bundles of 50-100 nerve fibers lying above groups of longitudinal muscle fibers separated by intrusions of mesoglea. Smaller groups of 10-50 slender nerve fibers are oriented at right angles to the circular muscle formed by the bases of the digestive cells. The unmyelinated nerve fibers lack any glial wrapping, although some bundles of epidermal fibers are partially enveloped by cytoplasmic extensions of the muscle cells; small gastrodermal nerve bundles lie between digestive epithelial cells above their basal myonemes. A hypothetical model for sensory input and motor output in the epidermal and gastrodermal nerve plexuses of sea anemones is proposed.
3227212|The ultrastructure of the thin, non-cellular cuticle is described for 6 marine oligochaetes, representing 3 of the subfamilies (Phallodrilinae, Limnodriloidinae, and Rhyacodrilinae) of the Tubificidae. The main components of the cuticle in these 6 species, as in most other oligochaetes examined, are: (1) a fiber zone closest to the epidermis, consisting of collagen fibers embedded in a matrix, (2) an epicuticle, which is a continuation of the matrix outside the fiber zone, and (3) epicuticular projections, which are membrane-bound bodies covering the outer surface of the epicuticle. The projections are probably formed by the microvilli that penetrate the cuticle from the epidermal cells below, but this was confirmed only in the studied limnodriloidines. Three of the species examined, Duridrilus tardus, Olavius vacuus, and Heterodrilus paucifascis, lack microvilli. The morphology of the components in the cuticle differs between the studied species. The collagen fibers may form an "orthogonal grid" (i.e., layers of parallel fibers perpendicular to the layers immediately above and below), or they may form parallel layers, or be irregularly scattered. The number of dense layers in the epicuticle, as well as the shape and internal structure of the epicuticular projections, also vary. All these characters might be useful in future phylogenetic analyses to achieve better hypotheses of relationships within oligochaetes as well as to other groups.
40663842|The topic of tissue and organ regeneration has been of interest to life scientists ever since the phenomenon was noticed. The reason for this is obvious: if one can learn what drives and controls regeneration, i. e., how lost or damaged structures can be replaced, one not only has a better chance to understand an animal's embryogenesis and evolutionary relationship with other taxa, but one would also be in a better position to treat organ loss or tissue damage in humans. In this context, the possible restitution of individual sensory neurons or nerve projections has been of special interest to us. We identified central visual projections in several gastropod species and found that: (1) projections are very extensive across the brain and (2) they have connections with other systems and organs (including, most likely, non-ocular skin photoreceptors) that may be involved in the integration of signals from different sensors. Investigations of afferent and efferent visual elements at a morphological level should help reveal the neuronal basis of a gastropod's behavioral reactions.
3227132|We investigated several aspects of the larval biology of the anemone Anthopleura elegantissima, which harbors algal symbionts from two different taxa, and the non-symbiotic A. artemisia. From a 7-year study, we report variable spawning and fertilization success of A. elegantissima in the laboratory. We examined the dynamics of symbiosis onset in larvae of A. elegantissima. Zoochlorellae, freshly isolated from an adult host, were taken up and retained during the larval feeding process, as has been described previously for zooxanthellae. In addition, larvae infected with zooxanthellae remained more highly infected in high-light conditions, compared to larvae with zoochlorellae, which remained more highly infected in low-light conditions. These results parallel the differential distribution of the algal types observed in adult anemones in the field and their differential tolerances to light and temperature. We report on numerous failed attempts to induce settlement and metamorphosis of larvae of A. elegantissima, using a variety of substrates and chemical inducers. We also describe a novel change in morphology of some older planulae, in which large bulges, resembling tentacles, develop around the mouth. Finally, we provide the first description of planulae of A. artemisia and report on attempts to infect this non-symbiotic species with zooxanthellae and zoochlorellae.
4621896|The starlet sea anemone, Nematostella vectensis, is a small burrowing estuarine animal, native to the Atlantic coast of North America. In recent years, this anemone has emerged as a model system in cnidarian developmental biology. Molecular studies of embryology and larval development in N. vectensis have provided important insights into the evolution of key metazoan traits. However, the adult body plan of N. vectensis may arise via four distinct developmental trajectories: (1) embryogenesis following sexual reproduction, (2) asexual reproduction via physal pinching, (3) asexual reproduction via polarity reversal, and (4) regeneration following bisection through the body column. Here, we compare the ontogenetic sequences underlying alternate developmental trajectories. Additionally, we describe the predictable generation of anomalous phenotypes that can occur following localized injuries to the body column. These studies suggest testable hypotheses on the molecular mechanisms underlying alternate developmental trajectories, and they provoke new questions about the evolution of novel developmental trajectories and their initiation via environmental cues.
3701459|Eversion of the preputium is one of the initial steps in the male copulatory behavior of freshwater pulmonates. Previous experiments have shown that serotonergic mechanisms are involved in eversion in the snail Biomphalaria glabrata because the vertebrate 5-HT
3227147|Ultrastructural features of the pharynx, esophagus, and associated intrinsic visceral muscular and nervous structures of the booklouse, Liposcelis divinatorius, were studied to determine whether the anatomical arrangements of these structures differed from the general pattern found in insects. The results are compared with previous light microscope studies of this tiny insect. Variations from the usual arrangement reported for intrinsic visceral muscles associated with the pharynx in insects are described. Intrinsic visceral muscles include a narrow band of circularly disposed fibers and both extra-circular and intra-circular longitudinally disposed fibers. This represents a departure from the slightly developed inner longitudinal and more prominent outer circular fibers seen in most insects. The outer surface of some circular muscle cells has apparently unique pouches packed with mitochondria, which contain many cristae. Numerous bacteroids appear in the esophageal epithelial cells and in the sub-esophageal ganglion. Nerve processes associated with the foregut contain neurotubules, synaptic vesicles, and electron-dense granules.
10.2307/3226878|Epitokes of the syllid polychaete Odontosyllis enopla, caught during swarming and maintained in the laboratory, are described and illustrated. As they survived swarming and resumed a benthic life, sexual maturation and epitoky are reversible in this species. The hitherto unknown benthic life-style was studied in post-spawning adults and in juveniles collected from the benthos in the upper sublittoral at the site of swarming. O. enopla inhabits silk tubes fastened to hard substrates and encrusted with sand grains. The worms are carnivorous, foraging in the dark, probably on spionids. After swarming, the worms shed the swimming setae and, according to preliminary evidence, may develop a double line of dark-brown pigment across each segment. Bioluminescence is not restricted to the well-described swarming display but was observed for months after spawning as a startle response. Swimming trochophores hatch the morning after spawning and, while developing into three-segmented larvae, may continue swimming or gliding on the substrate or may attach themselves to the substrate by a thread secreted from the pygidium. The lecithotrophic phase of life may last four weeks. Start of feeding and the transition to permanent benthic life have not yet been observed. The relations between Odontosyllis enopla, also called the "Bermudian fireworm," and Caribbean populations of Odontosyllis are discussed.
10.2307/3226937|Histophagous ciliate infections were infrequently detected in blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, from Chesapeake Bay, Delaware Bay, and a coastal bay of Maryland. Associated pathology included hemocyte aggregations in various tissues and nodule formation. Protargol silver staining of cultured ciliates revealed an oral apparatus morphologically similar to that of other hemolymph-infecting ciliates of the genus Mesanophrys. The oral apparatus included three distinct oral polykinetids and an oral dikinetid consisting predominantly of a b segment and a smaller c segment. Morphologic comparison to other histophagous ciliates infecting crustaceans showed that the ciliate in blue crabs is a distinct species, Mesanophrys chesapeakensis n. sp., family Orchitophryidae.
3227271|The polychaete Boccardia proboscidea has poecilogonous development that includes the production of both planktotrophic and adelphophagic young. In this study, we use scanning electron microscopy to analyse external morphogenesis of planktotrophic offspring with emphasis on early embryos, morphogenesis during metamorphosis, and the dynamic nature of larval structures during early ontogeny. Larval growth involves addition of terminal chaetigers and formation of segment-specific structures such as cilia and chaetae. Our observations reveal that most ciliary bands are reduced or incomplete relative to those found in larvae of other polychaete families. We describe a small metatroch (consisting of only a few trochoblasts) in early embryos, which has not previously been reported in the Spionidae. The presence of the metatroch does not imply a function in opposed-band feeding, as a food groove intermediate between the prototroch and metatroch is lacking. A neurotroch, inconsistently reported in the Spionidae, is also present and terminates in a ciliated pit. Many larval structures (e.g., presumptive sensory organs) are short-lived, implying a shift towards early functionality of adult traits in larvae. Metamorphosis is gradual and occurs over the latter half of the larval life. The reduction of larval structures, and early development of adult traits, suggests an overall shift in morphology facilitating settlement and juvenile development.
10.2307/3226875|The effect of age on the infectivity of cercariae to their second intermediate host may limit their transmission. Individual ostracods (Cypridopsis sp.) were exposed to cercariae of the hemiurid trematode Halipegus occidualis, ranging in age from 1 to 25 days. Surviving ostracods were then examined for infection, and the number of dead hosts recorded. The number of cercariae ingested by the ostracods remained constant throughout the experiments. However, the number of mesocercariae recovered from ostracods declined significantly as the cercariae increased in age. Cercariae 25 days old were not infective to ostracods. The number of deaths among infected hosts was significantly higher than that in uninfected controls. Examination of variance to mean ratios suggested that host mortality was parasite-induced. The results indicate that the opportunity of transmission for these cercariae is considerably smaller than previously suggested.
3227148| The ecological roles of small (1-1000 mg) predators in benthic marine systems are poorly understood. We investigated the natural history and predatory impact of one group of such mesopredators-larvae of dipteran flies in the genus Oedoparena-which prey on intertidal barnacles. We 1) quantified patterns of larval Oedoparena distribution and abundance in the Northwest Straits of Washington State, USA, 2) determined larval physiological tolerance limits in the laboratory, and 3) conducted a manipulative field experiment to assess the role of microhabitat temperature on predation rates in Oedoparena. Members of Oedoparena in Washington are univoltine, with peak larval abundance in late spring and early summer. Infestation frequencies in the barnacles Balanus glandula and Chthamalus dalli were as high as 22% and 35%, respectively. In laboratory studies, larvae of O. glauca were able to tolerate temperatures up to 37C; however, this temperature is often exceeded in high intertidal habitats. In a field manipulation using experimental shades, we demonstrate that the alleviation of physiological stress greatly increased the abundance of larvae of Oedoparena spp. As a result of increased larval densities under shades, adult B. glandula mortality increased from 5% to nearly 30%. and C. dalli mortality increased from less than 20% to over 60%. Because high intertidal barnacles serve as food and habitat for a diverse array of species, Oedoparena spp. have the potential to play a major role in structuring high intertidal communities, particularly in cooler microhabitats. 
4621922|Several recent experimental studies have assessed the behavioral reproductive ecology of four opisthobranch species belonging to the families Aglajidae and Gastropteridae (Cephalaspidea). In order to extend the scope of this earlier work, here we document the reproductive morphology and behavior of 36 taxa belonging to the same two sea slug families. Measurements focus on insemination patterns, spawning characteristics, as well as the size and shape of male and female reproductive organs (i.e., prostate, penis, bursa copulatrix, seminal receptacle). We found that behavioral and morphological traits vary considerably between species, even between closely related taxa. Mating behavior covers the full spectrum from unilateral to simultaneously reciprocal insemination and includes putatively antagonistic mechanisms such as hypodermic injection in some cases. With respect to morphology, particularly great variation was present in traits related to the male sexual function, such as prostate size and penis type. In traits associated with the female function, noticeable variation in those traits accessible for measurement was limited to the relative size of the spermdigesting bursa copulatrix. These data provide the basis for future comparative analyses on the evolution of reproductive characters in a phylogenetic context. We further explore the relationship between characteristics and body size. Our data corroborate previous findings that in species with exclusively planktotrophic development, investment per embryo (using mean egg diameter per species as a proxy) is independent of mean species body size. In contrast to egg size, spawn weight and the number of eggs per spawn tightly increased with body size, both within and among species. Hence, larger individuals among planktotrophs increased reproductive investment by increasing offspring quantity rather than investing more into each single offspring. Comparably large eggs with few eggs per spawn in our only two species with facultatively intracapsular metamorphosis are also consistent with findings in other opisthobranchs.
4124896|The tridentate pedicellariae in all species of Diadema and Echinothrix recognized by Mortensen, plus species described later (to include D. palmeri and two color morphs of E. calamaris) were examined to identify diagnostic species characters, and to determine whether such characters are useful in inferring phylogenetic relationships between species. Nineteen morphological characters were measured and analyzed, and species-specific characters were identified. The morphometric data were then transformed using gap coding and a parsimony analysis was undertaken. The resulting cladogram for the tridentate pedicellariae present in species of Diadema was compared with the mitochondrial DNA phylogeny of Lessios et al., with a good level of congruence observed. Very narrow forceps-like tridentate pedicellariae were found to be basal among Recent species, present only in D. setosum and D. palmeri. Members of D. palmeri were found to be unique within the genus, having both the forceps-like form and a broad form of tridentate pedicellaria. The very narrow forceps-like form is absent in all subsequent divergent species, while the broad form of tridentate pedicellaria in D. palmeri is basal to the broad forms in D. antillarum, D. mexicanum, D. paucispinum, and both the broad and narrow forms of tridentate pedicellaria of D. savignyi. The greatest similarity was found between the broad forms of tridentate pedicellaria in D. antillarum and D. mexicanum. These species were also found to have narrow forms of tridentate pedicellaria that showed a reasonable level of association to one another and to the rostrate form in D. ascensionis. Since the work of Mortensen, D. ascensionis has been shown, using mitochondrial DNA, to be nested within D. antillarum. The results of this study show that the tridentate pedicellaria in D. ascensionis are distinctly different from all other forms within the genus, to the extent that they belong to a rostrate subclass. This indicates that, among Diadema species, the tridentate pedicellariae are one of the first morphological characters to diverge in genetically isolated populations. Unlike the tridentate pedicellariae in Diadema, the different forms of tridentate pedicellariae in E. calamaris and E. diadema showed a stronger association intraspecifically than between forms interspecifically. The small forms of tridentate pedicellaria of the white and brown color morphs in E. calamaris showed a high level of association, while the large forms showed only a moderate association, far lower than would be expected between color morphs of the same species. This suggests that they are either subspecies or recently diverged separate species. This study demonstrates the taxonomic value contained within the characters of the tridentate pedicellariae for both differentiating species (even subspecies) and inferring phylogenetic relationships between species.
10.2307/3226906| The massive coral Goniopora tenuidens can develop elongated "sweeper" polyps. These are thought to be involved in aggressive interactions with neighbouring benthic organisms, like the sweeper tentacles of other corals. The cnidoms of sweeper polyps and ordinary polyps of G. tenuidens from the Great Barrier Reef were compared. Sweeper polyps had significantly greater densities of elongate holotrichous isorhizas (34577  3839/mg; mean  SD, n = 6) than ordinary polyps (936  371/mg; p < 0.05), while ordinary polyps had significantly greater densities of spirocysts (75994  15992/mg) than sweeper polyps (19469  7808/mg; p < 0.05). This suggests that sweeper polyps of G. tenuidens, like the sweeper tentacles of other corals, are modified for aggression, and that they probably act through nematocyst discharge. However, the scattered distribution of sweeper polyps observed on colonies of G. tenuidens in the field suggests that sweeper polyps may have other functions. 
3227106|Members of Tigriopus californicus, an harpacticoid copepod, live in small, shallow tidepools in the upper spray zone where they cannot avoid the full effect of visible and ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Field experiments using ambient light show that individuals of T. californicus aggregate in areas of lower radiation at midday, yet have no preference at dawn and dusk. In lab experiments, individuals of T. californicus show no preference between areas exposed only to photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) or shade, but aggregate in the shaded portion of a tank when exposed to UV-B. Light detection in T. californicus is presumably by the nauplius eye, which is described at the histological and ultrastructural levels. Microvilli of the photosensitive rhabdomere are regularly packed at noon, dusk, and midnight. Processes suggesting rhabdomere synthesis, including vesicles and tubules binding to the base of microvilli, are observed at these times. At dawn, the rhabdomere shows areas of degeneration and coated pits and multivesicular bodies are common at the base of the microvilli. Comparison with previous studies show a wide variety of nauplius eye complexity in copepods.
3701479|These experiments are part of a larger study designed to investigate the influence of husbandry parameters on the life history of the apple snail, Marisa cornuarietis. The overall objective of the program is to identify suitable husbandry conditions for maintaining multigeneration populations of this species in the laboratory for use in ecotoxicological testing. In this article, we focus on the effects of photoperiod, temperature, and population density on adult fecundity and juvenile growth. Increasing photoperiod from 12 to 16 h of light per day had no effect on adult fecundity or egg hatching and relatively minor effects on juvenile growth and development. Rearing snails at temperatures between 22 C and
10.2307/3226859|Studies of hydroid metamorphosis have been primarily limited to 3 species: the athecate Hydractinia echinata and 2 thecates, Phialidium gregarium and Mitrocomella polydiademata. To determine if findings from studies on those species can be applied generally, the effects of various agents implicated in hydroid metamorphosis were examined in 2 additional athecates, Halocordyle disticha and Hydractinia symbiolongicarpus. As in all species studied to date. H. disticha and H. symbiolongicarpus can be induced with activators of protein kinase C (PKC) and cannot be induced by the Ca
10.2307/3226998|Many freshwater mussels of the family Unionidae form conglutinates, specialized packets of parasitic glochidia that often mimic host prey items. Conglutinates of the kidneyshell, Ptychobranchus fasciolaris, resemble either insect larvae or fish fry. These structures, examined with light and scanning electron microscopy, are composed of three acellular layers separated by fluid or mucoidal layers. Regions of the conglutinate that appear to mimic eyes are shown to be particularly thin areas that readily rupture and liberate glochidia. Thus, elaboration of mimicry characteristics, such as "eyes," is accompanied by functional differentiation of regions of the conglutinate.
3227267| Coding sequences (5,334 nt total) from elongation factor-1, elongation factor-2, and the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II were determined for 6 species of Tardigrada, 2 of Arthropoda, and 2 of Onychophora. Parsimony and likelihood analyses of nucleotides and amino acids yielded strong support for Tardigrada and all internal nodes (i.e., 100% bootstrap support for Tardigrada, Eutardigrada, Parachela, Hypsibiidae, and Macrobiotidae). Results are in agreement with morphology and an earlier molecular study based on analysis of 18S ribosomal sequences. Divergence times have been estimated from amino acid sequence data using an empirical Bayesian statistical approach, which does not assume a strict molecular clock. Divergence time estimates are pre-Vendian for Tardigrada/Arthropoda, Vendian or earlier for Eutardigrada/Heterotardigrada, Silurian to Ordovician for Parachela/Apochela. Permian to Carboniferous for Hypsibiidae and Macrobiotidae, and Mesozoic for Isohypsibius/Thulinia (both within Hypsibiidae) and Macrobiotus/Richtersius (both within Macrobiotidae). 
3227137|Anatomical, histological, and ultrastructural investigation of the hydrothermal vent phyllodocid Galapagomystides aristata shows that this unusual polychaete has a normal mouth and foregut but a highly modified midgut with a blood-filled lumen. The foregut includes a protrusible proboscis armed distally with minute spines. Midgut tissues contain concentrically banded spherocrystals, composed mainly of iron, phosphorus, and silicon, and abundant lipid droplets. The blood-filled midgut lumen extends to the final segment of the worm, but we find no sign of an anus. There is no evidence of symbiotic bacteria in tissues of G. aristata. Stable isotope analyses indicate that G. aristata is likely to be a secondary consumer. We propose that these worms are hematophagous, although they lack many common anatomical adaptations for a blood-sucking way of life.
10.2307/3226910|In the penis glands of the dugesiid planarian Girardia schubarti, 6 secretory cell types were distinguished based on their histology and distribution. One cell type (type I) opens into the most distal part of the bulbar cavity, 3 cell types (types IIa, IIb, and IIc) open into the ejaculatory duct, and 2 cell types (types IIIa and IIIb) open directly into the male atrium through the epithelium of the penis papilla. Secretory cells of types IIb, IIc, and IIIa were identified as mucocytes. Types I, IIa, and IIIb produce a proteinaceous secretion. Fixation with neutral formaldehyde best preserves the integrity of the secretory granules of the penis glands. The distribution, number, and histochemical affinities of the cell types of the penial glands may constitute differential taxonomic characters. The role of the penis glands in maintaining sperm viability and in sperm transfer is compared with their function in other dugesiid species.
4124892|Colonies of the freshwater colonial rotifer Sinantherina socialis (Monogononta, Flosculariidae) have been shown to be unpalatable to a variety of small-mouthed, zooplanktivorous fishes. To test whether invertebrate predators ingest the rotifer S. socialis, we conducted two types of experiments: (1) Microcosm experiments-in separate experiments, four invertebrate predators (i.e., dragonfly nymphs, damselfly nymphs, notonectids, and Hydra) were offered prey either singly or in combination. Prey were comprised of S. socialis; Epiphanes senta, a solitary, free-swimming rotifer; and Daphnia magna, a microcrustacean. In each experiment, the percent of prey surviving after 12, 18, and 24 h was recorded. (2) Paired-feeding experiments-in separate experiments, predators were offered prey in a pairwise fashion, in which members of D. magna were alternated with a rotifer, either S. socialis or E. senta. The results of the microcosm experiments showed that, after 24 h, 60-100% prey items of S. socialis survived the predators, but significantly fewer individuals of E. senta (6-89%) and D. magna (<25%) survived. When offered rotifers and individuals of D. magna simultaneously, predators tested consistently consumed more specimens of Daphnia. However, predators significantly reduced percent survival in E. senta but not in S. socialis. Predators, given a choice between the two rotifer species, all consumed significantly more specimens of E. senta than S. socialis after 24h. In the paired-feeding experiments, three of the four predators captured members of S. socialis, but these colonies were frequently released rather than ingested, although in some cases colony structure was seriously disrupted. Our results suggest that the unpalatable nature of members of S. socialis to certain fishes extends to several invertebrate predators, but the nature of the putative factor(s) responsible for this remains unknown.
3227241|The mode of allo-recognition among colonies was investigated in a viviparous ascidian, Botrylloides lentus. Each embryo is enveloped by a pouch of epithelial cells (brood pouch), and is brooded in the vascular lumen of the parental colony. That is, the parental colony tolerates the presence of semi-allogeneic conspecifics (embryos) in the vascular system. A rejection reaction occurs when incompatible colonies are brought into contact at their growing edges. The inflammatory rejection reaction is limited to a small area where the tunic of two colonies has partially fused. On the contrary, incompatible colonies fuse and their blood vessels become interconnected with one another, when they are brought into contact at artificially cut surfaces. This mode is the same as those of other viviparous species of Botrylloides, B. fuscus and B. violaceus. A relationship between viviparity and the loss of allo-recognition in the vascular system is suggested.
3227261| The cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) mediates interactions of immune and inflammatory cells in mammals. Previous reports also have linked plasma (cell-free hemolymph) levels of IL-1 in the snail Biomphalaria glabrata to resistance againsts Schistosoma mansoni. In the present study, fluorescent probes were used to study larval schistosome and snail hemocyte viability during in vitro encounters. Hemolymph (plasma and hemocytes) from schistosome-susceptible (M-line) and resistant (13-16-R1) B. glabrata was added to sporocysts of S. mansoni and the viability of hemocytes and parasites was assessed. Next, IL-1 was added to sporocyst-hemolymph samples, the viability of sporocysts and hemocytes determined and then compared to control assays. The number of live sporocysts present after incubation for 1 h with hemolymph from M-line snails was significantly greater than the number seen when hemolymph from 13-16-R1 snails was tested. Nearly all sporocysts survived the 1 h incubation with M-line hemolymph, and most of the hemocytes attached to sporocysts were dead. In contrast, nearly all sporocysts were dead when hemolymph from 13-16-R1 snails was tested, and most attached hemocytes were alive. Addition of IL-1 to M-line hemolymph resulted in a dramatic increase in sporocyst death. Addition of IL-1 to 13-16-R1 hemolymph produced a small but significant increase in the rate of sporocyst death. These results indicate that the concentration of IL-1 present in hemolymph from B. glabrata is directly related to the ability of this snail to kill S. mansoni sporocysts in vitro. 
4621908|Corticium candelabrum is a homosclerophorid sponge widespread along the rocky Mediterranean sublittoral. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy were used to describe the gametes and larval development. The species is hermaphroditic. Oocytes and spermatocytes are clearly differentiated in April. Embryos develop from June to July when the larvae are released spontaneously. Spermatic cysts originate from choanocyte chambers and spermatogonia from choanocytes by choanocyte mitosis. Oocytes have a nucleolate nucleus and a cytoplasm filled with yolk granules and some lipids. Embryos are surrounded by firmly interlaced follicular cells from the parental tissue. A thin collagen layer lies below the follicular cells. The blastocoel is formed by migration of blastomeres to the morula periphery. Collagen is spread through the whole blastocoel in the embryo, but is organized in a dense layer (basal lamina) separating cells from the blastocoel in the larva. The larva is a typical cinctoblastula. The pseudostratified larval epithelium is formed by ciliated cells. The basal zone of the ciliated cells contains lipid inclusions and some yolk granules; the intermediate zone is occupied by the nucleus; and the apical zone contains abundant electron-lucent vesicles and gives rise to cilia with a single cross-striated rootlet. Numerous paracrystalline structures are contained in vacuoles within both apical and basal zones of the ciliated cells. Several slightly differentiated cell types are present in different parts of the larva. Most cells are ciliated, and show ultrastructural particularities depending on their location in the larvae (antero-lateral, intermediate, and posterior regions). A few smaller cells are non-ciliated. Several features of the C. candelabrum larva seem to support the previously proposed paraphyletic position of homoscleromorphs with respect to the other demosponges.
23016672|A paucity of data on the reproductive cycle of crabs in the family Lithodidae inhibits both the development of management strategies and the formulation of hypotheses regarding the evolution of lithodid life histories. Life-history parameters of Lopholithodes foraminatus from British Columbia, Canada, were investigated based on 26 females maintained in the laboratory and supplementary observations on other living and preserved animals. The rate of embryonic development was determined by measuring the percentage area occupied by yolk in lateral views of eggs removed from brooding females throughout development. Females of L. foraminatus exhibited biennial reproduction including an 18-month brooding period. Females molted, mated, and extruded eggs in mid-summer, and did not release larvae until late winter or early spring of the second year after fertilization. Embryogenesis included a 12-month diapause at the gastrula stage. Females released larvae over a mean interval of 69 d, the longest reported for any lithodid. While the development stage of embryos was observed to be heterogeneous within a brood, no spatial gradient in development rate was observed, calling into question the oxygen limitation hypothesis of extended hatching. Biennial reproduction of individuals of L. foraminatus may be a consequence of a relatively low-quality habitat. Relative to annual reproduction, biennial reproduction halves the potential rate of increase of a population and increases vulnerability to overharvesting, suggesting that L. foraminatus is not a good candidate for commercial exploitation. The adaptive value of embryonic diapause is uncertain and warrants further research.
3227223|An undescribed species of Orbiniidae (Annelida; Polychaeta) is found in large numbers associated with communities of the mussel, Bathymodiolus childressi at hydrocarbon seeps on the Louisiana slope (Gulf of Mexico). Their microhabitat is often hypoxic and sulfidic, which poses serious respiratory challenges for an aerobic metazoan. They display several anatomical features that are quite unusual for this family, which likely allow them to live in their food-rich, but oxygen-limited, habitat. The anterior gills are hypertrophied whereas the posterior gills are not. These anterior gills provide the worms with a large gill surface area  9.9 cm
23016712|Most bryozoan colonies live firmly attached to hard surfaces, but some species live on sandy or muddy bottoms, anchored to the substratum by one or more rhizoids. The small, conical colonies of members of the genus Conescharellina live attached to the substratum by several rhizoids, each produced by a modified, non-feeding zooid (kenozooid). It was previously thought that these colonies lived prone on the substratum, anchored but not supported by the rhizoids. In this study, I observed the behavior of a living colony of Conescharellina catella collected from the East China Sea and maintained in the laboratory for 2 months. The colony lived apex down, suspended above the substratum by several rhizoids arising in the apical two-fifths of the colony, to a total height of nearly five times colony height. Starting from an uprooted position lying on the substratum, the colony reattached and righted itself to the erect position using existing or newly produced rhizoids. After I removed all rhizoids, the colony was able to right itself only after it regenerated rhizoids. In each of several series of observations, righting behavior involved similar steps and followed a similar time course, and it can thus be considered a stereotypical behavior. Histological sections showed that the rhizoids lack muscles. I speculate that righting is effected by differential turgor (internal pressure) and differential growth of rhizoids originating from kenozooids in different positions around the central colony axis, although it is unclear how the colony senses orientation and coordinates adjustments to achieve the preferred orientation.
10.2307/3226849|Phylogenetic relationships of 13 adenophorean and 15 secernentean nematodes were analyzed using morphological data and 18S rDNA sequences in parallel. Both data sets strongly supported monophyly of Adenophorea and Secernentea. Monophyly of the subfamily Stilbonematinae-which is remarkable for symbiosis with bacteria-was also confirmed. Three taxa without symbionts (Desmodora, Xyzzors, and Acanthopharynx) branched at the base of the adenophoreans. Enoplus meridionalis, representing the Enoplida, was distantly related to the remaining adenophoreans and formed their most basal branch. All analyses also supported monophyly of the genera Eubostrichus, Laxus, Haemonchus, and Caenorhabditis. Within the secernenteans, the genus Rhabditis, however, appeared to be paraphyletic with respect to the genus Rhabditella.
10.2307/3227041|We investigated possible relationships among pseudocoelomates (aschelminths) by using cladistic analysis to uncover all most-parsimonious trees from a data set comprising 45 morphological characters of 11 phyla (3 acoelomate, 7 pseudocoelomate, and 1 coelomate). Analysis of our matrix yielded 2 most-parsimonious trees, differing only in relative placement of 3 taxa (Kinorhyncha, Loricifera, and Priapulida). Tree topology suggests that the pseudocoel either evolved twice, or that it evolved once and was then independently lost in Gastrotricha and in Gnathostomulida. Tree topology also is consistent with derivation of the pseudocoel from a coelom. From our analysis and that of other morphologically-based studies, we conclude that there are 2 main lines of pseudocoelomate evolution: (1) a minor clade (Acanthocephala + Rotifera) defined principally by a syncytial epidermis, intracytoplasmic lamina, and sperms with anterior flagella; (2) a major clade (the 5 remaining phyla), defined primarily by a cuticle that is molted. Within the major clade are 2 subclades (Nematoda + Nematomorpha; Kinorhyncha + Loricifera + Priapulida). Using morphological data, the chief issues remaining to be resolved are placement of Gastrotricha and Gnathostomulida, and evolution of the pseudocoel. No analysis based solely on morphological data has so far produced a tree congruent with those based on molecular data. Nevertheless, there is a general consensus that (1) the pseudocoel is of little phylogenetic significance and (2) the pseudocoelomates are probably polyphyletic.
10.2307/3226976|The symbiotic water mites Unionicola formosa and U. foili are sibling species from the host mussels Pyganodon cataracta and Utterbackia imbecillis, respectively. Cellulose acetate electrophoresis was used to examine the population genetics of these sibling species in order to determine the degree of genetic divergence. A total of four populations of U. formosa and six populations of U. foili were scored for 19 presumptive enzyme loci. Genetic variation among all mite populations was low, but genetic heterozygosity and polymorphism were greater among populations of U. formosa. We found a high degree of genetic differentiation between populations of U. formosa and U. foili. Populations of these species were fixed for different alleles at three loci (MDH 2, MPI 2, and PEP) and exhibited significant allele frequency heterogeneity at 83% of their polymorphic loci. Genetic divergence among these species populations also was reflected in the pairwise values of Nei's genetic identity and genetic distance. Coefficients of genetic identity were high among populations of the same species, but were substantially lower when populations from the two species were compared. A dendrogram of the distance values generated two distinct groups separated by a distance of 0.177, corresponding to populations of U. formosa and U. foili. The results of this study provide evidence that mite populations from P. cataracta and U. imbecillis are reproductively isolated sibling species of Unionicola, and complement other studies suggesting that host specificity is important in limiting gene flow among populations of symbionts.
10.2307/3226986| Bathynerita naticoidea, a bathyal neritid prosobranch endemic to oil and gas seeps in the Gulf of Mexico, produces filiform eusperms ~90 m long. The eusperm is of the introsperm type, typical of invertebrates with internal fertilization, and they are similar in structure to those of shallow-water neritimorph taxa. The head of the sperm is ~26 m long and consists of an elongate tubular nucleus (~24 m long X 0.2 m diameter) and acrosome (~2 m long), which sits on a subacrosomal plate. The anteriorly positioned acrosome is invaginated posteriorly, with the subacrosomal space containing an axial rod. The mid-piece, which is ~35 m long, contains two elongate mitochondria, housed in a cytoplasmic sheath. the inner membrane of which is periodically thickened. The centriolar complex is housed in the intra-nuclear canal, 1 m from the anterior of the nucleus. Thus the axoneme penetrates most of the length of the nucleus. Associated with the first outer doublets of the axoneme is a rod-like structure which runs the length of the mid-piece and for part of the tail. Unlike most other neritids, the axoneme of B. naticoidea is not bent at the junction of the mid-piece and tailpiece, and the tail is not terminally expanded. Whilst the sperm of B. naticoidea has many structural similarities to those of other Neritidae, the simple terminal end and more elongate mid-piece rod suggests that Bathynerita may be more closely related to the Phenacolepadidae than the Neritidae. Spermiogenesis is as described for shallow water neritids. Associated with the developing spermatids are Sertoli cells, the structure of which is similar to that described for other gastropods. 
10.2307/3226919| Measures of internal fluid flow have the potential to illuminate energy allocation and life-history variation in colonial invertebrates. Using video microscopy and digital image analysis, fluid flow was characterized in hydractiniid hydroids at three regions of the "dead end" stolons located at the periphery of colonies. Outflow begins at an initially high rate (range 50-800 m/s). As the stolon fills, the outflow slows and then stops, and a period of backflow (<100 s), having a relatively low initial rate, follows. Backflow rate increases (less than or equal to outflow rate) as the stolon contracts. The cycle ends with the stolon lumen fully closed and the flow rate again equal to zero. A proximal-distal flow rate gradient is apparent over the 3 regions examined along peripheral stolons. Comparisons of peripheral stolons over several contraction cycles show that Hydractinia symbiolongicarpus has shorter and wider stolons, wider lumen diameters, shorter flow-cycle periods, and similar flow rates relative to Podocoryne carnea. In H. symbiolongicarpus, a large portion of the variation in stolon length correlates with the examined flow parameters. Surprisingly, this is not the case in P. carnea. Further, the generally larger lumen diameters of H. symbiolongicarpus are not associated with higher flow rates as would be expected if pressure and tissue resistance is similar between the species. This suggests that these hydroids may regulate fluid flow at different magnitudes, or in accordance with their distinct physiological optimums, or both. 
3227251|Four copepod species of the genus Asterocheres (A. echinicola, A. latus, A. suberitis and A. complexus) are recorded for the first time as associated with Mediterranean sponges of the classes Calcarea and Demospongiae (orders Dictyoceratida, Dendroceratida, and Poecilosclerida). Individuals of A. suberitis are described for the first time as inhabiting sponges other than Suberites domuncula. The copepods seemed to use their trunk to suck the material (cuticles or excreted cells) produced at the sponge periphery (ectosome), which indicates that their feeding habits are similar to those observed in species of the same genus that feed on exfoliated tissues of echinoderms. In the laboratory, copepods fed on young sponges (rhagons) of the species Crambe crambe, Cacospongia mollior, and Dysidea avara without reducing the rhagon biomass. In contrast, rhagons of the species Haliclona sp., Hymedesmia spp., and Phorbas tenacior were consumed and their biomass reduced. This may be because the latter group does not produce external proteinaceous material. Copepod offspring were continuously released (~6 nauplii every 48 h) and the larval stages were capable of limited swimming. We found significantly more copepods over the surface of the sponges than inside them. Copepod abundance was positively correlated with the sponge surface area while not with the sponge biomass. These results indicate that the copepods live preferentially over the sponge surface and that their abundance is surface-area dependent. The behavioral traits described here indicate that the interactions between asterocherid species and sponges are worthy of future study.
3701489|We examined the cnidomes (total complement of nematocysts) of medusae of the zooxanthellate and azooxanthellate jellyfishes Phyllorhiza punctata and Catostylus mosaicus (Rhizostomeae, Scyphozoa), and compared the assemblage of Zooplankton captured on the oral arms of each species to determine whether differences in the types or amount of zooplankton captured were consistent with possible differences in the cnidomes. Cnidomes were described using light and scanning electron microscopy. Each species had a distinct cnidome and, in general, specimens of P. punctata appeared to have far fewer nematocysts than those of C. mosaicus. Four types of nematocysts were identified in medusae of C. mosaicus; 2 types of holotrichous isorhizae, rhopaloids, and birhopaloids. In C. mosaicus, the oral arms and bell margins possessed all of these types, but the cnidomes of the 2 regions differed in relative abundances and sizes of isorhizae and rhopaloids. Five types of nematocysts were identified in medusae of P. punctata, although not all types were found in all specimens. Round holotrichous isorhizae were found only in the bell, while oval holotrichous isorhizae, rhopaloids of 2 distinct size ranges, and birhopaloids were found in the bell and oral arms. Cnidomes of the bell and oral arms in specimens of P. punctata also differed in the relative abundance and sizes of oval isorhizae and rhopaloids. Although there were clear differences in the overall cnidomes and absolute abundances of nematocysts in each species, the oral arms (feeding appendages) of specimens of both C. mosaicus and P. punctata had similar types and relative abundances of nematocysts. Zooplankton sampled from the oral arms of each species showed that both species preyed predominantly on copepod nauplii and larvae of gastropods and bivalves. Medusae of C. mosaicus captured ~10 x more gastropod larvae and 5 x more bivalve larvae than those of P. punctata. Specimens of P. punctata captured approximately twice as many copepod nauplii as those of C. mosaicus. Differences in the relative abundance of types of Zooplankton captured by each species could not be adequately explained by differences in the cnidomes of the oral arms.
3227174|The ultrastructural features of the ovary and oogenesis have been described in 6 species of patellid limpets from South Africa. The ovary is a complex organ that is divided radially into numerous compartments or lacunae by plate-like, blind-ended, hollow trabeculae that extend from the outer wall of the ovary to its central lumen. Trabeculae are composed of outer epithelial cells, intermittent smooth muscle bands, and extensive connective tissue. Oocytes arise within the walls of the trabeculae and progressively bulge outward into the ovarian lumen during growth while partially surrounded by squamous follicle cells. During early vitellogenesis, the follicle cells lift from the surface of the underlying oocytes and microvilli appear in the perivitelline space. Follicle cells restrict their contact with the oocytes to digitate foot processes that form desmosomes with the oolamina. When vitellogenesis is initiated, the trabecular epithelial cells hypertrophy and become proteosynthetically active. Yolk synthesis involves the direct incorporation of extraoocytic precursors from the lumen of the trabeculae (hemocoel) into yolk granules via receptor-mediated endocytosis. Lipid droplets arise de novo and Golgi complexes synthesize cortical granules that form a thin band beneath the oolamina. A fibrous jelly coat forms between the vitelline envelope and the overlying follicle cells in all species.
10.2307/3226841|The ultrastructural features of the anal papillae from fourth-instar larvae of the midge Choronomus tentans are consistent with their dual function of transporting ions into the hemocoel and hemolymph macromolecules towards the cuticle. The thin cuticle of anal papillae exhibits epicuticular grooves containing electron-dense material. In AgNO
3227192|Settlement timing and differential settlement for the larval stage of the green sea urchin, Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis, in the southern Gulf of Maine was studied during the summer of 1996. Settlement densities on astroturf panels were highest in June and early July (13 to 37 m
4124905| We report the results of a laboratory study of the aestivation of Hormogaster elisae to determine the nature of the inactive period (diapause or quiescence) and to evaluate the influence of soil moisture, temperature, season, and earthworm body weight on the process. The results showed that specimens of H. elisae underwent facultative diapause-paradia-pause-characterized by the construction of aestivation chambers in which the animal coils up and its activity decreases. Soil moisture appeared to be the most important environmental factor involved in the onset of aestivation. Temperature and time of year also had some influence, but earthworm body weight appeared to have none. Aestivating earthworms showed a decrease of 41.6% in mean body weight. Once replaced in soil with 20% moisture content, they took 6.4  3.1 d to exit their chambers and another 6.5  3.6 d to recover their initial body weight. 
3227165|Within many phylogenetic assemblages, a pattern of domination has been observed: one or a few clades have had many more speciation events or fewer extinctions than other clades in a particular assemblage. We investigated this phenomenon in the polychaete annelids. Polychaetes comprise ~9000 described species classified in over 70 families and exhibit a great variety of life history strategies. Our goal was to test whether diverse polychaete families are characterized by species with short generation times, high reproductive output, small body size, or with planktotrophic larval development. Each of these factors has been advanced as cause for high diversity in other taxonomic assemblages. Here, we establish that the diversification pattern of polychaete families is non-random, but the data collected show no significant correlations between familial diversity and several life history traits including age at first reproduction, life span, body size, fecundity, and egg size. Pairwise comparisons of sister families do not reveal any trends between familial diversity and any of the life history traits. The great variability of life history traits within polychaete families may explain the lack of significant results; perhaps no trends are seen because polychaete life history traits cannot be generalized at the family level.
10.2307/3227042|The ability of the antarctic pteropod Clione antarctica (Mollusca: Gastropoda) to synthesize sex steroids from radiolabeled steroid precursors was examined in individuals sampled near the end of their observed reproductive season from McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. The precursors,
40981237|The sexual system of the semi-terrestrial shrimp Merguia rhizophorae is described, along with natural history observations on this unusual caridean. Individuals of M. rhizophorae in the Bocas del Toro Archipelago, Panama, were found occupying fossilized coral terraces in the upper and mid-intertidal zones, inhabiting caves and crevices, in and out of water. These fossilized coral terraces represent a new habitat for this species, which was previously reported only from mangrove swamps. Males, which made up 65% of the studied population, were smaller than females on average. No small juvenile females were observed, but transitional individuals having the characteristics of both males (gonopores) and females (ovaries) were observed in the population. These data suggest that individuals of M. rhizophorae are protandric hermaphrodites. Logistic regression indicated that the carapace length at which 50% of the individuals change sex is 4.89 mm. The abundance of shrimps at the study site was low. Shrimps were usually solitary, but occasionally observed in groups of  5 individuals. Shrimps were commonly observed walking while out of water, and in some cases, emerged shrimps jumped vigorously, presumably to avoid capture by the researcher or by predatory crabs. Additional studies on the reproductive biology and the behavioral ecology of members of this genus and of members of the closely related families Barbouridae and Lysmatidae will aid in understanding the evolutionary origin and the adaptive value of gender expression patterns in shrimps.
3227202|The biology of Paryphanta busbyi watti, an endangered carnivorous land snail, was studied mostly by following large juvenile and adult snails with harmonic radar. The snails are nocturnally active and most (79%) hide during the day under leaf litter or in dense vegetation. Fecal analysis showed that the diet is primarily earthworms, but some cannibalism of smaller snails occurs. Empty shells appear to be an additional source of dietary calcium. Mating occurred most frequently between April and July. Mating snails stayed together for 4-7 days, and each pair reversed their positions at least twice. Four snails were first found mating 1511240 d after they acquired adult shells, and 7 snails were observed mating a second time after 66-298 d. We found 8 nests and observed 6 snails ovipositing; 5 snails laid eggs in holes they dug and one laid eggs in a crevice between rocks. In 2 instances, oviposition was recorded 52 and 140 d after mating. Snails were estimated to lay on average ~17.5 eggs per year in 3-5 clutches. Most oviposition was observed in August/September, but some occurred between November and February. Of the snails that died, pigs killed 13.6% and humans inadvertently killed another 13.6%. Other snails died from unknown causes mostly during the drier and warmer months, from November to April. This large land snail survives in the presence of introduced predators, but some life history traits could predispose it to a rapid decline in numbers if new predators arrive.
3701452|Realism, resolution, and portrayal of spatial relationships are three conditions for iconic representations in formal taxonomic descriptions. Hand drawing is a painstaking and time-consuming technique. The environmental scanning electron microscope (ESEM) is an alternative that can provide detailed images without damaging the specimen, thus allowing it to be used for further study either in light microscopy or molecular analysis. In this work, we evaluate the suitability of ESEM for basic taxonomic study with specimens of two arthropods groups: water mites and bathynelids. The ESEM provides enough resolution to classify even to the species level. Different kinds of curatorial adhesive strips were used with satisfactory results. We foresee that the ESEM will be a common taxonomic tool in the near future.
40206189|Two new families of amphiboloid gastropods were recently erected, largely due to the very distinct structural and functional configurations of their distal reproductive systems. The spermovipositors in monaulic Salinator spp. (Amphibolidae) are functionally unique in Gastropoda, and it is suggested that they perform both oviposition and sperm transfer/receipt during non-reciprocal copulation. In contrast, the remarkably complex penises in syntremous diaulic Phallomedusa spp. (Phallomedusidae) are used exclusively for sperm transfer during reciprocal copulation. The phallomedusid penis is structurally unique among gastropods because it is protruded by pivoting around a fixed point rather than extending by eversion, and bears elaborate appendages to improve traction during copulation. The complex and functionally ambiguous distal reproductive structures of Maningrida (Maningrididae) differ from other amphibolids in the arrangement and structure of their prostate and copulatory structures. Genital armature of varying complexity occurs in all amphiboloidean families. There may be a correlation between the absence of a long-term sperm storage structure (spermatheca) and the evolutionary diversification of copulatory structures in these gastropods.
10.2307/3226911|Nucleotide sequences of the region extending from the D3 to the D6 expansion segments of the 28S rDNA gene were used to reconstruct evolutionary relationships within the Platyhelminthes. Neighbor-joining and parsimony analyses of representatives of most major platyhelminth taxa revealed a basal Catenulida, a monophyletic Acoelomorpha, a sister-group relationship of Macrostomorpha and Polycladida (59% of bootstrap replications), and monophyletic Tricladida. We found no evidence of a taxon Seriata (p=.0001); however, the paraphyletic status of the Proseriata needs further investigation. Although Neodermata appeared as a monophyletic group, Monogenea was paraphyletic (p<.0001), thus not supporting the taxon Cercomeromorpha. Monopisthocotylean Monogenea was the most basal taxon among the Neodermata, and Udonella sp. consistently grouped with the Monopisthocotylea. Other relationships within the Neodermata showed Trematoda as a monophyletic taxon and, among its members, Rugogaster hydrolagi was identified as an aspidogastrean. The taxa Cestodaria (Amphilinidae and Gyrocotylidae) and Eucestoda were both supported; however, constraining these 2 clades into a monophyletic Cestoda resulted in a significantly longer tree (p=.0303). We tentatively conclude that the immediate sister group of Neodermata is Fecampiida. But because of contradictory results of the constraint analyses, we cannot exclude the possibility that the sister group to Neodermata is a taxon containing many neoophoran turbellarians (e.g., Rhabdocoela and Tricladida).
25623045|The majority of tagged colonies of Pseudoplexaura porosa in Bermuda were reproductive over 2 months in the summer. They spawned 5-8 d after the full moon, with a peak on the sixth day, similar to colonies in Panama. The months of spawning were August and September in 1998, but July and August in 1999 and 2000. This temporal difference between the months of spawning corresponded to inter-annual variations in seawater temperature profiles. Initial gamete development each year occurred only when the daily mean seawater temperature during the month before spawning exceeded 27C. There was a significant positive relationship between reproductive effort (gamete volume) of colonies and rising seawater temperature in the month preceding spawning; this was true for both the initial and the second spawning months. The end of the reproductive season each year was triggered by the decline in seawater temperature past the summer maximum. The duration of the reproductive season of conspecifics at the central Caribbean reef of Panama is 2 months longer than in Bermuda. This can be explained by the smaller annual temperature range at the lower latitude and the earlier onset of temperatures favorable for gamete development. Fecundity estimates for members of P. porosa (mean oocyte and spermary densities) in Bermuda were lower than for conspecifics in Panama. The shorter reproductive season in Bermuda, in addition to the lower fecundity of colonies, indicates that reproduction in P. porosa is compromised at this high latitude reef.
10.2307/3227046|Accepted explanations cannot explain lophophore protrusion in Cellaria diffusa and C. bassleri, whose apertural structure differs markedly from that of most other cheilostomes. The sclerotized portion of the operculum is overlain by a hypostegal coelom. Typical parietal muscles are lacking. Lophophore protrusion is accomplished by muscular contraction: opercular divaricators cause the operculum to pivot on proximally located hinge teeth (cardelles) and simultaneously pull down on a pair of longitudinal cuticular ridges (depressor bars) on the epitheca. The resulting depression of the epitheca causes fluid to pass from the hypostegal coelom to the perigastric cavity around the proximolateral edges of the operculum. Both species possess well-developed setigerous collars, so the location of the vestibule can be definitely established. The vestibular roof is not involved in operculum formation. The operculum appears not to have been derived from the operculum of simple cheilostomes such as Membranipora, but rather from a cuticular extension of the cryptocyst. The apparent homology of the divaricators to opesiular muscles suggests derivation from cheilostome ancestors with extensive cryptocysts and opesiules. Apertural morphologies are seldom studied in adequate detail, so it is unclear how many cheilostomes share this mechanism or if Cellaria-like ancestors gave rise to any ascophoran cheilostomes.
3227127|To determine whether increased water motion affects patterns of regeneration in the subtidal burrowing brittlestar Hemipholis elongata (phylum Echinodermata), individuals were subjected to laboratory-controlled turbulence conditions. Half of each replicate aquarium experienced oscillatory (wave-like) turbulence while the other half had no turbulence. Individual brittlestars from which arm-tips had been removed were allowed to burrow and to regenerate. Regenerated arm-tip length and weight were tested for differences between organisms in calm and turbulent conditions. Regenerated arm-tip length differed significantly between control and treatment, but arm-tip dry weight and skeleton/tissue ratio of regenerated arm-tips did not. To quantify plasticity in the skeleton, 15 morphological measurements made on the proximal face of vertebral ossicles (using scanning electron microscopy) were integrated as an index of overall ossicle size. We found a significant difference in the overall size index of the vertebral ossicles between treatments, but could not determine which of the measurements contributed most to the difference. The results indicate that regeneration in H. elongata is a complex process that can be modified by environmental conditions.
3701511| Protease activity in the midgut gland, gastric chamber, and gastric juice from the crabs Callinectes bellicosus and Callinectes arcuatus was characterized by several methods, confirming that the composition of digestive proteases is the same in the gastric juice and the midgut gland. Gastric juice was suitable for the identification and characterization of the proteinases trypsin and chymotrypsin. Such enzymes were presented as isotrypsins and isochymotrypsins. Proteinase composition evaluated by SDS-PAGE and substrate-SDS-PAGE showed differences between species, but not between gender. Proteinases were thermostable at 40-50C for 1 h and showed maximum activity at pH 6-8, making the use of digestive proteinases for evaluations of protein digestibility by the pHstat method possible. We propose using gastric juice as a source of digestive enzymes for in vitro studies of enzymes in digestibility assays and characterization procedures. 
40981233|The atrochid rotifer, Acyclus inquietus, is a sedentary predator that lives within the colonies of its prey, the rotifer Sinantherina socialis. After larvae infiltrate and become associated with the colony, they secrete a permanent gelatinous tube and undergo metamorphosis to the adult stage. We followed settlement and metamorphosis using bright-field microscopy to document specific larval behaviors after eclosion, and used epifluorescence and confocal microscopy of phalloidin-labeled specimens to visualize some of the morphological changes that occur during metamorphosis. Upon eclosin, larvae possess paired eyespots and a ciliated corona that functions strictly in locomotion. After leaving the parent's gelatinous tube, larvae eventually settle on unoccupied colonies of S. socialis or on other substrates if colonies are unavailable. Settlement involves a period of gliding among colony members before attachment with the foot and the secretion of a gelatinous tube. After settlement, there is a drastic reconfiguration of the corona that involves loss of the eyespots, loss of the coronal cilia, and the formation of the cup-shaped infundibulum, a deep depression in the anterior of the head that leads to the mouth. The development of the infundibulum involves the expansion of tissues around the mouth and is accompanied by a reorientation of the underlying musculature that supplies the infundibulum and allows its use in prey capture. The arrangement of the muscles in the trunk and foot regions, which contain outer circular (complete and incomplete) and inner longitudinal bands, remains unchanged between ontogenetic stages, and reflects the condition characteristic of other rotifers.
3227199|Svenzea zeai, abundant on many deep Caribbean fore-reef habitats but of uncertain systematic position within the Demospongiae, is closely examined histologically and cytologically for evidence of its phylogenetic relationship beyond the traditional analysis of gross morphology and skeletal structure. We document that S. zeai is a bacteriosponge containing substantial quantities of unicellular photosynthetic and autotrophic microbes; that the most abundant cell type is an unusual cell with refractile granules that only few species share and whose composition and function are still enigmatic; and that it produces the largest-by a factor of 3-embryos and larvae recorded in the phylum Porifera. A combination of characters such as the granular cells, ciliary pattern, and aspects of larval shape and behavior are comparable with those of Scopalina ruetzleri, family Dictyonellidae, a prominent member of the Caribbean mangrove community. These results support our earlier decision to establish Svenzea as a new genus in Dictyonellidae to accommodate its unprecedented skeletal structure, styles in isodictyal reticulation.
4124891| The reproductive cycle of the entocommensal nemertean Malacobdella arrokeana inhabiting Panopea abbreviata from San Jos Gulf, Patagonia, Argentina, and the nemerte-an-host relationship were investigated. The mature nemertean population showed a sex ratio of 1:0.64, with females predominating. The number of individuals of M. arrokeana per host varied from 1-60 individuals (meanSD = 3.79.4mm). Different stages of gonadic development were observed in individual nemerteans. Spawning peaks occurred during late summer and early spring. Sexually mature individuals of both sexes were present year round, possibly indicative of a continuous breeding period. Our results suggest that M. arrokeana has no cannibalistic habits and confirm its entocommensal symbiosis with P. abbreviata. 
40206232|Many hermaphroditic species are promiscuous, have a sperm digesting organ and an allosperm storage organ (i.e., spermatheca) with multiple compartments (i.e., spermathecal tubules) providing opportunities for sperm competition. The relative paternity of a sperm donor drives the evolution of mating behaviors that allow manipulation of the sperm receiver's reproductive behavior or physiology. We studied the relationship between sperm transfer, sperm storage, sperm digestion, and copulation duration in the hermaphroditic land snail Succinea putris, in which an active individual mates on top of a passive individual. Specifically, we examined (i) whether the entire copulation duration was required to complete reciprocal sperm transfer, (ii) sperm transfer patterns and their relationship with activity role, and (iii) the timing of sperm storage and sperm digestion. We found that reciprocal sperm transfer was completed within the first 5 h of copulation, which is ~2-3 h before the end of copulation. Sperm transfer was mainly sequential, meaning that one individual donated all his ejaculate before its partner started to reciprocate. The initiation of sperm transfer did not depend on the activity role. The presence of allosperm in the spermatheca before sperm transfer suggests that individuals remate before they are allosperm depleted. No sperm was digested during copulation but sperm digestion took place 0-72 h after copulation. Our results suggest that contact mate guarding is a likely manipulation strategy in S. putris, because partners cannot immediately remate. In addition, staying in copula after sperm transfer is completed seems to prevent the immediate digestion of sperm and therefore may promote sperm displacement and allosperm storage.
3227155|Anna Meyer published her first (and apparently last) scientific paper in 1913, in which she reported, in part, on the organization of the renogenital systems in the "Diotocardia" and "Monotocardia," and the evolutionary signal present in this character suite. Meyer's phylogeny broke with conventional wisdom of her time and she reconstructed early gastropod evolution as a sequence of branching events rather than a continuous grade. Her phylogeny was ignored because it did not correspond to the well-ordered grades that came to dominate gastropod systematics for over 75 years, but her schematics of renogenital configurations have been featured in the literature for over 55 years, sometimes without citation and redrawn to show a different set of relationships. We hope that the translation of her paper from German into English (http://www.ucmp.berkeley.edu/collections/archdat.html) will make her contribution more accessible to workers.
40206227|The phylogenetic position of Polygordius is still pending; relationships with either Opheliidae or with Saccocirrus are the most favored hypotheses. The present study of Polygordius appendiculatus was designed to look for morphological characters supporting either of these two hypotheses. The homology of the anterior appendages, and the structure of the central nervous system and nuchal organ all required clarification; we also examined whether photoreceptor-like sense organs exist in adults. From their innervation pattern, it is likely that the anterior appendages represent palps. They lack structures typical of palps in Canalipalpata, such as musculature and coelomic cavities, which would be expected in the case of a saccocirrid relationship. Thirteen photoreceptor-like sense organs were found in front of the brain, the only structures resembling photoreceptors in adults of P. appendiculatus. These multicellular sense organs comprise a supportive cell and several sensory cells enclosing an extracellular cavity. There are three different types of sensory cells: one rhabdomeric and two ciliary. These sensory cells are combined differently into three forms of sense organ: the most frequent uses all three types of sensory cells, the second possesses one rhabdomeric and one ciliary cell type, and the third has two types of ciliary sensory cells. Whereas similar sensory cells are frequently found in various polychaetes, their combination in one sensory organ is unique to Polygordius and is considered to represent an autapomorphy. The nuchal organs exhibit features typical of polychaetes; there are no specific features in common with Saccocirrus. Instead, the covering structures show obvious similarities to Opheliidae, as can also be found in the central nervous system. Altogether, the current observations do not contradict a relationship with opheliids but provide no evidence of a relationship with Saccocirrus as has been found in certain molecular analyses, and thus currently leave the phylogenetic position of Polygordius unresolved.
10.2307/3226931|The study of feeding behavior in aquatic insects requires integrating a number of techniques. Light and scanning electron microscopy give three-dimensional images of the feeding apparatus needed to understand their structure, while cinematography allows frame-by-frame analysis of movements of the food collecting organs necessary to explain their function. Videography is used in two ways: to provide a record of feeding over time and, with microscopy, to show patterns of flow around the insects. This facilitates the construction of catalogs of feeding behaviors and aids in the interpretation of relationships between functional morphology and hydrodynamics. Experiments are then conducted to determine which foods are ingested from those available in the environment. We use examples of investigations on black fly larvae and mosquito larvae to illustrate this integrated approach to the study of feeding in suspension-feeding aquatic insects.
10.2307/3226974|Aggregations of the sessile, serpulid tubeworm Hydroides elegans are commonly encountered on hard surfaces in Pearl Harbor, Hawai'i, and a bio-organic film has been found to be one requisite for larval settlement in this species. To determine if additional pre- or post-settlement factors influence larval distribution, we recorded settlement frequency, location, and survival on biofilmed settlement plates, either unoccupied as controls, or occupied by live juvenile or adult worms, tubes of dead adult worms, or plastic mimics of adult worm tubes. Early post-settlement mortality was extremely low in all trials (< 1.0 %), and thus not responsible for structuring populations of H. elegans. The hypothesis that larvae settle preferentially on or near conspecific individuals (i.e., gregariously) was falsified: larvae did not settle faster (laboratory) or in greater numbers (field) on surfaces already occupied by H. elegans or their tubes. In the laboratory, settling larvae of H. elegans did not actively select crevices created where adult worm tubes or worm-tube mimics intersected with the substratum; in the field, however, there was significantly more settlement in tube crevices than expected by chance. Because this pattern appeared only in moving water, it probably results from hydrodynamics. In flowing water, larvae are entrained in eddies shed on the leeward side of roughness elements, such as the tubes of adult worms or their mimics, and attach there if these sites are otherwise acceptable (i.e., biofilmed). A similar pattern of enhanced settlement in crevices adjacent to tubes occurred on the plates with juvenile worms on the last day of field trial 1, when the diameter of their tubes (0.6 mm) was large enough to create eddies capable of entraining conspecific larvae. Dense aggregations of H. elegans found on hard surfaces in bays and estuaries most likely result from passive deposition of larvae in crevices beside tubes of conspecific individuals, followed by selective attachment in these locations if the bio-organic film is acceptable.
10.2307/3226876|The glandular sensory organ found in representatives of all genera of Stilbonematinae (Nematoda, Desmodoridae) so far described was investigated by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy. It is composed of one type A and one type B glandular cell, one monociliated sensory cell, and a hollow seta. Whereas the Stilbonematinae have ectosymbiotic bacteria coating the cuticle, for an outgroup comparison three non-symbiotic species belonging to three genera from the closely related subfamilies Desmodorinae and Spiriniinae were chosen. In these three species the glandular sensory organ is composed of one type A glandular cell, one biciliated sensory cell, and a hollow seta. The consistent structure of a highly complex organ such as the glandular sensory organ with one type B glandular cell and one monociliated sensory cell suggests that the Stilbonematinae are monophyletic in spite of their otherwise diverse morphology.
10.2307/3226950|A survey of the terrestrial tardigrades inhabiting soil, algae, lichens, and mosses was conducted during the austral summer of 1990 at the Australian Research Station at Mawson and other localities on the Mawson Coast. Five genera and six species of tardigrades were recovered: Echiniscus jenningsi, Diphascon sanae, Hypsibius antarcticus, Macrobiotus blocki, Macrobiotus stuckenbergi, and Milnesium tardigradum. Males have seldom been reported in the genus Echiniscus, but constituted about 40% of the population of E. jenningsi. Such a high concentration of males suggests a sexually reproducing population of E. jenningsi on the Mawson Coast. Patterns, obstacles, and strategies of dispersal, reproduction, and survival are discussed relative to the harsh, sparse, and insular environment of East Antarctica.
10.2307/3227023|Cells of a symbiotic prokaryote, Prochloron sp., in colonies of a tropical ascidian, Lissoclinum punctatum, occur not only outside but also inside cells of the host. Cells of these photosynthetic symbionts of ascidians have previously been reported only extracellularly. The intracellular and extracellular symbionts do not differ morphologically. The host cells carrying the symbionts are freely distributed in the ascidian tunic. They probably endocytize the symbionts and then retain them within a vacuole. Since the intracellular prokaryotes showed no evidence of rejection or degeneration, this association between tunic phagocytes of L. punctatum and cells of Prochloron sp. seems to constitute a stable symbiosis, comparable to the postulated ancestral association between heterotrophic cells and the photosynthetic prokaryotes which gave rise to chloroplasts.
4621918|Paramecium bursaria, a freshwater protozoan, typically harbors hundreds of symbiotic algae (Chlorella sp.) in its cytoplasm. The relationship between host paramecia and symbiotic algae is stable and mutually beneficial in natural environments. We recently collected an aposymbiotic strain of P. bursaria. Infection experiments revealed that the natural aposymbiotic strain (Ysa2) showed unstable symbiosis with Chlorella sp. The algae aggregated at the posterior region of the host, resulting in aposymbiotic cell production after cell division. Cross-breeding analyses were performed to determine the heritability of the aposymbiotic condition. In crosses of Ysa2 with strains of P. bursaria, F1 progeny were able to form stable symbioses with Chlorella sp. However, unstable symbiosis, resembling Ysa2 infection, occurred in some F2 progeny of sibling crosses between symbiotic F1 clones. Infection experiments using aposymbiotic F2 cells showed that these F2 subclones have limited ability to reestablish the symbiosis. These results indicate that the maintenance of stable symbiosis is genetically controlled and heritable, and that Ysa2 is a mutant lacking the mechanisms to establish stable symbiosis with Chlorella sp.
10.2307/3227034|Because the morphology of the cuticular scales of spiders is extremely variable both within and between families, any study attempting to use cuticular scales as a systematic character must first have a formal definition that differentiates scales from other types of setae. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the characters used previously in the literature to distinguish cuticular scales from other types of setae and, if necessary, to provide a new, comprehensive definition for this setal type in spiders. The results of our SEM survey of the surface morphology of the scales of 23 species of spiders representing 10 families do not support the morphology of the socket as a reliable character for distinguishing scales from other types of setae. Our results indicate that cuticular scales should be defined as flattened setae that have a pedicel bent so that the scale overlays the surface of the cuticle. Our results also suggest that the urticating hairs of theraphosid spiders should not be considered to be a type of cuticular scale. Instead, we propose the recognition of three main types of scales: lanceolate, spatulate, and plumose. In addition to qualitative comparisons, we measured and compared the cuticular scales for several species and found that differences in scale width were directly related to the morphotype of the scales being examined.
10.2307/3226938|The location of Arg-Phe-amide (RFamide)-like peptides in dense-cored vesicles in neurons of the planula larva of the marine hydrozoan Pennaria tiarella was shown using immunogold electron microscopy. Expression of the peptide was detected as early as 16 h after fertilization. Gold-labeled dense-cored vesicles ranging from 80 nm to 140 nm in diameter were found in both cell bodies and neurites of ganglion cells (non-ciliated bipolar and multipolar neurons found at the base of the ectoderm just above the mesoglea) located in the aboral (anterior) and middle regions of the planulae. Within the neurites, the labeled dense-cored vesicles were found in distinct clusters all along their lengths in close association with the cell membranes, a distribution which suggests that release of the peptide in planulae probably does not occur at specialized synaptic sites. Labeled cells also contained unlabeled dense-cored vesicles, unlabeled clear vesicles (60 nm to 100 nm in diameter), and unlabeled electron-dense droplets (100 nm to 240 nm in diameter). Localization of RFamide peptides to dense-cored vesicles of specific neurons in early planulae is significant because of growing evidence on the role of these substances in morphogenesis.
3227221|The fine structure of the bursa copulatrix of the virgin snails has been compared with that of mated snails. One of the noticeable changes after mating is an increase in the number of the Golgi and the secretory vesicles. Since some of the vesicles react positively for acid phosphatase it is suggested that this enzyme activity increases following mating. The bursa lumen of the virgin snail contains gel-like materials devoid of spermatozoa, however, following mating, the lumen is full of semen containing live spermatozoa and bacteria. The source of bacteria in the lumen is not known. Acid phosphatase activity is significantly higher in the luminal content of mated snails than in the virgin snails. The activity is higher in the lumen than in the epithelial cells, suggesting that the enzyme is secreted into the lumen where it is utilized for extracellular degradation of spermatozoa. Following mating, the spermatozoa are motile in the lumen of the bursa for ~3-7 d, but become immobile and finally undergo extra-cellular digestion so that intact spermatozoa are not recognizable by day 10. The use of castrated snails in mating experiments suggest that individuals of Helisoma duryi reproduce by cross fertilization and that the bursa may act as the holding organ from where the spermatozoa are periodically transported to the carrefour over ~7 d. At day 10 following mating, however, autosperms appear in the hermaphroditic duct awaiting the next mating.
23016255|The endemic Hawaiian gastropod Smaragdia bryanae is a specialized marine herbivore that uses the endemic seagrass Halophila hawaiiana as both food and habitat. These small neritids, their grazing scars, and their egg capsules are found year-round on seagrass leaves, where they feed on protoplast contents released as the sharp outer-lateral teeth of the snail's radula puncture leaf epidermal cells; the contents of these cells are likely swept into the mouth by the long, wispy cusps of the marginal teeth. Structural differences from the typical neritid radula include elongated outer-lateral teeth with two sharply pointed cusps, delicate marginal teeth reduced in both size and number, and a compressed central section. Snails grazed on leaves of H. hawaiiana steadily in laboratory culture, and grew and reproduced on this diet. In laboratory choice experiments, snails did not graze the thalli of any of six macroalgal species growing near seagrass where snails were collected, and strongly preferred occupying seagrass. Seagrass samples from five field sites on Oahu and one on Maui showed from 30% to 94% of leaves damaged, with 11% of the total leaf standing area grazed. Snails are smaller (mean length 2.740.32 mm, mean width 2.150.17 mm, n = 217) than the width of the leaves of H. hawaiiana (mean 3.241.26 mm, n = 790). The snails associate constantly with their host, despite the scattered distribution, small patch size, and variability of the seagrass resource, demonstrated by a sevenfold range in the leaf area index (mean 1.110.61 cm 2 blade surface cm 2 , n = 31) among samples. Damage on grazed leaves (mean 8.217.05 mm 2 per leaf, or 16.5% of leaf surface, n = 511) is concentrated in the apical and central epithelia between the midrib and the marginal veins, where snails may access cells with thinner walls and few fibers. Details of the grazing interaction between these extant species in Hawai'i shed light on the ecological specialization of members of the genus Smaragdia to seagrasses over geological time.
10.2307/3226889| In the isopod crustaceans Idotea wosnesenskii and I. resecata, the first three pairs of abdominal appendages (pleopods) are locomotory, and the remaining two pairs are respiratory. We investigated the mechanical and morphometric properties of the pleopods in order to study constraints that may influence this division of labor. Measurements of the flexural (bending) stiffness of the pleopods demonstrated that the podites of the first and second pairs of pleopods were generally an order of magnitude stiffer than the fourth and fifth pleopods; the third pleopods were variable in stiffness. Anterior pleopods tend to be slightly thicker and have thicker cuticles, but these morphological differences do not entirely account for differences in flexural stiffness among pleopods; there must also be differences in modulus of elasticity (E). Estimates of E based on these stiffness data yield values in the middle of the range typical of arthropod cuticles. The differences in cuticle thickness and material properties between the anterior and posterior pleopods may help explain why the swimming pleopods do not make a significant contribution to gas exchange. 
4621888|The hypotheses that the sheltering behavior of four species of terrestrial isopods varies in relation to differences in their morphological, physiological, and behavioral adaptations to the terrestrial environment were tested using artificial refugia together with independent estimates of density to derive an index of sheltering activity. (1) Porcellio scaber sheltered significantly more than Platyarthrus hoffmannseggi, Armadillidium vulgare, or Philoscia muscorum, which sheltered the least. (2) There was a decline in the sheltering index (SI) for all four species after the breeding season, continuing through to the autumn and remaining low throughout the winter. (3) Changes in the sheltering behavior of each species in relation to changes in environmental conditions were used to interpret known differences in the position and breadth of their resource utilization curves along a gradient of rabbit grazing intensity. (4) Porcellio scaber sheltered more where the soil was more calcareous, P. muscorum more under the shade of trees, and both P. muscorum and A. vulgare more in grazed than in ungrazed swards. (5) Sheltering behavior was found to be positively correlated to both rainfall and soil temperature the day before sampling for A. vulgare but negatively to rainfall for P. muscorum. There was a positive relationship between the SI for P. scaber and daily air temperature range. (6) Variations in the sheltering behavior of these four species of terrestrial isopod are discussed in the context of their foraging and digestive strategies and in relation to their morphological, physiological, and behavioral adaptations to the terrestrial environment.
40206213|The morphology of the obligately ectoparasitic polychaete Asetocalamyzas laonicola was studied by light and electron microscopy, and its taxonomic position was determined using molecular methods. The parasite has an extensive coelomic cavity, complete septae, and well-developed segmental nephridia, circulatory, and digestive systems. The nervous system is rudimentary and without ganglia. The parasite's anterior region penetrates the tissues of the host, and opens into the host's body cavity. The epidermal tissues of the parasite and the host are highly integrated in the area of contact, and the parasite's cuticle is continuous with that of the host. Blood vessels of the parasite and the host may interlace in the fusion zone. The dorsal side of the parasite faces the dorsal side of the host. All parasites were males, but all hosts were females. In order to elucidate the uncertain systematic position of the parasite, molecular systematic studies were conducted. Parasite and host 18S rDNA sequences were virtually identical and revealed that both belong to the spionid cluster. These sequences differed from those of Scolelepis squamata and Scolelepis bonnieri by 2.7% and 0.9%, respectively. In addition, of seven partial sequences of the mitochondrial COI gene obtained from three parasites and four hosts, six were identical, and in one host-parasite pair, COI sequences differed by one substitution. Partial ITS2 sequences from one host-parasite pair were analyzed and also found to be similar but not identical, with two indels in a 645-bp alignment. We conclude that the parasite is in fact a dwarf male of its conspecific spionid female host. Consequently, A. laonicola is transferred to Scolelepis (Spionidae), forming the new combination Scolelepis laonicola.
10.2307/3226870|The ability to survive in a dormant state is a widespread, yet unevenly distributed feature among invertebrates. Organisms belonging to classes and phyla that include fresh-water or terrestrial representatives are more likely to possess a dormant stage than those in groups that are exclusively marine. Moreover, within taxa where dormancy has evolved, it is more common among fresh-water and terrestrial species than in marine species. This correlation between dormancy and habitat across 29 free-living invertebrate phyla raises the question of cause and effect. Are dormant stages more common in fresh-water and terrestrial habitats because there is greater selection for dormancy in those environments, or is dormancy a prerequisite for the successful invasion of non-marine systems? The mechanism of dormancy varies among species and ranges from a specialized diapausing embryo to a quiescent adult. Dormancy has most likely arisen multiple times in invertebrate life histories, both within and between phyla. Although dormancy may facilitate the invasion of fresh-water and terrestrial habitats, it is not always a requirement: many non-marine species do not exhibit dormancy.
10.2307/3226885|Colonies of Sinantherina socialis (phylum Rotifera) form conspicuous masses that should make them extremely vulnerable to fishes capable of ingesting small live prey (<3 mm in length). To test this hypothesis we offered rotifer colonies as prey to 14 species of small-mouthed, predatory fishes, alternating with small cladocerans. Most rotifer colonies (71-100%), but few cladocerans (0-14%) were rejected after capture. Fish feeding behavior on rotifers followed a consistent pattern: locate, approach, attack, mouth repeatedly, and reject (spit out). Except for loss of a few individuals, rotifer colonies that had been repeatedly rejected remained undamaged. This is the first evidence for unpalatability of rotifers to zooplanktivorous fishes.
3227071|The trophosome of adults of Riftia pachyptila (Vestimentifera) was reinvestigated using 3-dimensional ultrastructural reconstruction and quantitative morphological analysis. The symbionts make up 24.1%, the symbiont-containing cells (bacteriocytes) are 70.5% of the trophosome's volume. The trophosome is composed of lobules that have a central axial blood vessel surrounded by a myoepithelium containing bacteriocytes, in turn surrounded by an apolar tissue of bacteriocytes. Part of the splanchnic peritoneum lining the trunk coelom encases the bacteriocytes and forms a ramifying network of peripheral blood vessels. Based on the morphology and ultrastructure of the adult, we hypothesize a mesodermal rather than endodermal origin of trophosome and its constitute bacteriocytes. Some of the central bacteriocytes are part of the myoepithelium surrounding the axial blood vessel and act as stem cells for a proliferating tissue produced in the center and ultimately degraded at the periphery of each lobule. Similarly, the rod-shaped symbionts in the center act as stem cells and exhibit a simple cell cycle. Differentiation into cocci takes place in the median and peripheral zone. Lysis of cocci occurs in the degenerative zone.
40663869|The current investigation provides the first histomorphological description of the female palliai gonoduct in the muricid mollusc Dicathais orbita, and of sperm passage in the subfamily Rapaninae. Gonoduct anatomy, musculature, and sperm distribution were documented over the annual reproductive cycle to confirm the site of fertilization in members of the Muricidae, provide evidence for sperm storage, and allow subfamilial comparisons in reproductive anatomy and strategies. This approach revealed morphological plasticity of the ingesting gland in D. orbita, which has implications for the use of gonoduct character traits in taxonomic studies of the Muricidae. Other features of subfamilial diagnostic interest, including the ventral channel and both albumen and capsule glands, are highlighted to show common character traits between the Rapaninae, Ocenebrinae, and Muricinae. Conversely, distinct differences in posterior capsule and pedal gland morphology may aid subfamilial classification of Rapaninae species in future revisions of the Muricidae. Histomorphology coupled with sperm distribution revealed the passage of sperm and identified the dorsal albumen gland as the site of fertilization. Temporally replicated sampling indicated the potential for sperm storage for  10 months within the seminal receptacles in D. orbita. Sperm ingestion provides a possible mechanism for sexual selection, suggesting further investigation into sperm storage is warranted in the Muricidae.
23016705|The periodicity of sexual elements and soft tissue modifications during the life cycle of the hypercalcified sponge Petrobiona massiliana was investigated monthly from June 2006 to November 2007. Sexual reproduction, likely regulated by seawater temperatures, occurred during more than half of the year (from early April to late October); 70% of the samples appeared reproductively active. Specimens of P. massiliana displayed a high plasticity of tissue organization, allowing modulation and rearrangement of their aquiferous systems in response to life cycle phases and environmental changes. Permanent changes were observed in the basal region of the choanosome in non-reproductive specimens, such as disorganization/restructuring events leading to remodeling of the aquiferous system. Periodic modifications occurring during sexual reproduction included the transformation of choanocytes from a typical form to hourglass and vespiform shapes, and more global disorganization of the basal region of the choanosome during provisioning of oocytes and embryos, followed by restructuring after release of the larvae. Finally, episodic disorganization/reorganization phenomena occurred in a few specimens after unfavorable environmental conditions (e.g., decreasing seawater temperatures). Histological and ultrastructural observations of storage cells, located in peculiar trabecular tracts, suggest a transdifferentiation capacity that allows such soft tissue dynamics.
3701510|The ultrastructure of the male gonad of Eulimnadia texana (Branchiopoda, Spinicaudata) has been observed for the first time to investigate the sexuality of a well-studied case of androdioecy in the animal kingdom. The male gonad is a double structure located in the hemocoel throughout the entire body length on each side of the midgut. Male gametes originate from the wall and mature centripetally toward the lumen; the proliferative activity is very high and continuous and therefore the mature gonad is full of numerous germ cells. Inside the lumen several degenerative stages are found mixed with sperm cells and spermatids, the latter two being not easily distinguishable because of the slight differences between them. The evolutionary meaning of the degenerative process in E. texana male gametes is difficult to explain, and we propose some hypotheses about its possible role or cause in the studied population: (a) to help build spermatophores, (b) to act as a trophic component for viable sperm, (c) as a manifestation of inbreeding depression, and/or (d) to regulate the number of sperm cells.
3227228|Four tunnels off the lumen of the proventriculus of the carpenter bee, Xylocopa virginica virginica, have been discovered. Light and electron micrographs revealed the presence in the tunnels of gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria, some of which showed division stages. The occurrence of the bacteria exclusively in the tunnels-not in the lumen of the proventriculus-makes speculation as to their function difficult. The function of the tunnels is also obscure, as no glands were seen emptying into them. The bacteria may be symbionts that release enzymes into the tunnels, which are subsequently transported to the midgut to aid digestion. They could also be parasites. This is the first report of such bacterial-containing tunnels in insects.
10.2307/3226847|Among the free-living flatworms, members of the order Schizorhynchia have sperms with flagella that become fused with the shaft during spermiogenesis. In one division, Eukalyptorhynchia, there are two such fused axonemes, while in the other division, Schizorhynchia, there is only one. This study found similarities during spermiogenesis that link two closely related species traditionally classified in Eukalyptorhynchia (Cicerinidae), Toia calceformis and Nannorhynchides herdlaensis, to the Schizorhynchia. In both species, a pair of centrioles appears at the apex of the spermatid. Both centrioles are abortive in T. calceformis, while one develops into a short flagellum that becomes an incorporated axoneme in the sperm shaft of N. herdlaensis. This event has previously been demonstrated only in members of Schizorhynchia, and it strongly suggests that these two species and the Schizorhynchia share a recent common ancestor that branched off from other members of Eukalyptorhynchia. This would render the Cicerinidae and the Eukalyptorhynchia paraphyletic. Both species have eyes with distinctive lens elements that closely resemble those reported in some other rhabdocoel groups, but this is the first electron-microscopic report of such lenses in the Kalyptorhynchia.
3227111|A cladistic analysis based on 33 morphological characters was performed for the 31 genera currently assigned to the order Macrodasyida (Gastrotricha). Outgroup analysis indicated that the order is monophyletic and that it is defined by the structure of the pharynx and the complex distribution of duo-gland adhesive organs. Of the 6 currently recognized families in Macrodasyida, our analysis confirmed that 4 families are monophyletic: Dactylopodolidae, Macrodasyidae, Thaumastodermatidae and Turbanellidae. Dactylopodolidae was further confirmed as the most basal family within the order based on the retention of several plesiomorphies. The other three families have well-defined autapomorphies but will require further investigation to increase inter- and intrafamilial phylogenetic resolution. Planodasyidae appeared to be a paraphyletic taxon with no obvious autapomorphies; genera clustered among members of a polyphyletic family, Lepidodasyidae. We recommend that future research on macrodasyidan phylogeny focus on issues of comparative morphology and ultrastructure in lesser-known taxa such as the Dactylopodolidae, and on the taxa Lepidodasyidae and Planodasyidae.
3227260| A growing body of evidence suggests that interleukin-1 (IL-1) is present in invertebrates. Both invertebrate and human IL-1 can bind to invertebrate receptors and stimulate invertebrate immune functions. The present study shows that IL-1 increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) production by oyster immunocytes. However, physiological doses of noradrenaline (NA) exert a suppressive effect on IL-1 stimulation in vitro. The -adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol mimicked the effects of NA and the -adrenoceptor antagonist propanolol blocked the NA-induced suppression of hemocyte responsiveness to IL-1. The type IV phosphodiesterase inhibitor rolipram acted in synergy with isoproterenol to reduce hemocyte response to IL-1 and the protein kinase A inhibitor H-89 suppressed the effects of isoproterenol. These results suggest that circulating NA impairs IL-1-stimulation of oyster hemocyte via a -adrenoceptor/cyclic AMP/protein kinase-A signaling pathway. Considering that mollusc immunocytes secrete NA, an autocrine regulatory loop may also modulate the ability of these cells to respond to IL-1. 
3227093|No morphological clues on the amphipod head indicate the existence of ocelli. However, as in several isopod species studied so far, two rudimentary photoreceptors are integrated into the medio-dorsal part of the brain. This electron microscopical study of the photoreceptors is the first report on the presence of ocelli in amphipods. Each ocellus is made up of 3 receptor cells which contribute to the formation of a photoreceptive surface (the rhabdom) formed by tightly packed microvilli. The rhabdoms are twisted and irregular in outline. Membrane turnover is suggested by the presence of different kinds of lysosomes. Lacking dioptric lenses, these photoreceptors are not likely to be involved in image formation but may function as appraisers of ambient light intensity. Physiological and behavioral studies will, henceforth, have to take into account these unexpected ocelli, which may represent remnants of the naupliar eye.
3227200|The body-wall and visceral musculature of Notholca acuminata was visualized using phalloidin-linked fluorescent dye under confocal laser scanning microscopy. The body-wall musculature includes dorsal, lateral, and ventral pairs of longitudinally oriented body retractor muscles, two pairs of head retractors, three pairs of incomplete circular muscles, which are modified into dorso-ventral muscles, and a single pair of dorsolateral muscles. The visceral musculature consists of a complex of thick muscles associated with the mastax, as well as several sets of delicate fibers associated with the corona, stomach, gut, and cloaca, including thin longitudinal gut fibers and viscero-cloacal fibers, never before reported in other species of rotifers. The dorsal, lateral, and ventral retractor muscles and the incomplete circular muscles associated with the body wall appear to be apomorphies for the Rotifera. Muscle-revealing staining shows promise for providing additional information on previously unrecognized complexity in rotifer musculature that will be useful in functional morphology and phylogenetic analyses.
10.2307/3226964|Four aspects of sexual reproduction were examined in a northeastern Pacific population of the kamptozoan (entoproct) Barentsia hildegardae. The investigation of this colonial species revealed that (1) the population was sexually mature year-round, with a peak of sexual maturity during summer; (2) the sex ratio of the calyces in this population did not differ significantly from 1:1 male:female; (3) male colonies grown on glass slides had higher proportions of sexually mature calyces than did females and the zone of maturity extended farther toward stolon tips; (4) recruitment was much higher near female than male colonies, perhaps because brooded larvae settled near their mothers almost immediately after release.
25623052|In laboratory studies of fertilization using the gonochoric broadcast-spawning asterinid sea star Patiria miniata, we found many cases in which some mature eggs spawned by females formed cleavage-stage embryos and feeding bipinnaria larvae without fertilization by sperm. Segregation of maternal microsatellite alleles among the parthenogenetic offspring of known heterozygous females was consistent with several specific modes of asexual reproduction, including polar body suppression. Cryptic outcrossing by sperm contamination was ruled out by the failure to observe non-maternal alleles. The potential for asexual reproduction by the normally outcrossing members of P. miniata may suggest a shared propensity for asexuality among asterinid species from several clades in which isolated adults can produce offspring without outcrossing.
10.2307/3227036| Bathypera feminalba is a solitary deep-water ascidian inhabiting rocky areas of the NE Pacific. The low mound-shaped body is sheathed by a thin fibrous tunic densely studded with calcitic spicules ~150 m in length. Under the tunic, the ascidian body is covered by an epithelium bound to the inner edge of the tunic. New tunic and spicules form extracellularly in the epithelium inside the incurrent and excurrent siphons and around the periphery of the animal where it is attached to the substratum. Each spicule has a round flattened base, a narrow collared neck or sulcus that anchors it in the tunic, and a ring of distal spines. The central spine is the longest and usually directed outward from the central axis. A thin acellular organic envelope closely covers each spicule. A dense fibrous layer forms between the envelope and epithelium. Additional organic material remains in thin sections of demineralized spicules. The spicule base forms first; then, as the epithelial cells produce additional tunic, the spicules are pushed out of the epithelium into the ever-thickening tunic. Beyond this stage, no cells can be found in the tunic near the spicule base, and probably no further mineralization of the base occurs. As the spicule base is forming, secondary highly pseudopodial sclerocytes aggregate in the tunic overlying the distal part of the spicules. These sclerocytes are apparently responsible for production of the spines, which are comprised of numerous overlapping "shingles" of calcite. Mineralization of the spines probably continues throughout the life of the animal, because secondary sclerocytes remain numerous in the distal regions of all spicules. 
4621887|Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein that can maintain telomeres, the repetitive sequences of DNA found at the end of eukaryotic chromosomes, and confer long-term proliferative capacity on cells. Telomerase expression is essential during periods of intense cell division such as the early developmental process. In later development, some species retain telomerase activity while others repress telomerase activity in what is thought to be a tumor-protective mechanism. Despite the importance of telomerase expression in both development and neoplastic disease, no studies to date have characterized its expression in bivalves. We present the first report of telomerase expression in a bivalve species, the sand scallop, Euvola ziczac. Telomerase activity was detected throughout the early stages of development and in all adult tissues examined. Analysis of DNA isolated from adult tissues indicated long telomeres, with terminal restriction fragment lengths > 20 kb in both somatic and germ tissues. Ubiquitous telomerase expression throughout development and into adulthood would suggest a lack of telomere-related senescence and suggests that these scallops do not use telomerase repression as a mechanism to suppress the formation of neoplasm.
3227164|Bivalve classification has suffered in the past from the crossed-purpose discussions among paleontologists and neontologists, and many have based their proposals on single character systems. More recently, molecular biologists have investigated bivalve relationships by using only gene sequence data, ignoring paleontological and neontological data. In the present study we have compiled morphological and anatomical data with mostly new molecular evidence to provide a more stable and robust phylogenetic estimate for bivalve molluscs. The data here compiled consist of a morphological data set of 183 characters, and a molecular data set from 3 loci: 2 nuclear ribosomal genes (18S rRNA and 28S rRNA), and 1 mitochondrial coding gene (cytochrome c oxidase subunit I), totaling ~3 Kb of sequence data for 76 molluscs (62 bivalves and 14 outgroup taxa). The data have been analyzed separately and in combination by using the direct optimization method of Wheeler (1996), and they have been evaluated under 12 analytical schemes. The combined analysis supports the monophyly of bivalves, paraphyly of protobranchiate bivalves, and monophyly of Autolamellibranchiata, Pteriomorphia, Heteroconchia, Palaeoheterodonta, and Heterodonta s.l., which includes the monophyletic taxon Anomalodesmata. These analyses strongly support the conclusion that Anomalodesmata should not receive a class status, and that the heterodont orders Myoida and Veneroida are not monophyletic. Among the most stable results of the analysis are the monophyly of Palaeoheterodonta, grouping the extant trigoniids with the freshwater unionids, and the sister-group relationship of the heterodont families Astartidae and Carditidae, which together constitute the sister taxon to the remaining heterodont bivalves. Internal relationships of the main bivalve groups are discussed on the basis of node support and clade stability.
4124900|The symbiotic association between the new sponge species Mycale vansoesti and the coralline alga Amphiroa sp. from the Bunaken Marine Park (North Sulawesi, Indonesia) is described. The alga completely pervades the sponge. The color of the sponge ectosome is white, both on the external surface and on the atrial wall, but where the alga is present the sponge takes on the light pink color of the alga. The sponge spicular complement is characterized by mycalostyles, anisochelae of two types, sigmas (often "C" shaped), and extremely abundant toxas organized in bundles forming toxadragma. In the association, the sponge shows very low silicate value, and consequently the alga represents the main skeleton of the sponge. On the other hand, the sponge affects the morphology of the alga, leading to a cylindrical shape, with thalli running parallel to the sponge surface. This association seems to be obligate for the sponge, as we found no sponges of this species living in isolation.
40663871|Gelatinous egg masses are common in a number of animal phyla. However, they are virtually unknown in marine bivalves, with structures that could be thought of as gelatinous egg masses being reported for only five species. We describe the gelatinous egg mass and intracapsular development in the tropical lucinid Phacoides pectinatus. The embryos developed within individual capsules embedded in a large flimsy, spherical mass. Swimming veligers hatch at 198 m shell length. They did not feed, settled within several days of hatching, and metamorphosis was completed within 2 weeks of hatching. Gelatinous egg masses might be detected in members of more lucinid species if studies of development included field or in vivo observations of reproduction in addition to producing embryos by stripping the gonads.
10.2307/3227058| Glial cells and their processes were characterized in the fasciculated zone and in the protocerebral tract of the crab Ucides cordatus by light and electron microscopy. Thiry and PAS procedures indicate the presence of carbohydrates, particularly glycogen in cells. Immunohistochemistry was used to observe tubulin distribution in the glial cells. Our results demonstrate at least two types of glial cells in the fasciculated zone and in the protocerebral tract, separable by their location and electron density. Judging by their position, electron-lucent cells may correspond to periaxonal cells and electron-dense ones may correspond to perineurial cells. The electron-dense processes have previously been interpreted as extracellular matrix, but since they feature an enveloping membrane and contain glycogen and mitochondria (intact and with varying degrees of disruption) we consider them to be part of one type of glial cells. 
4124890|Land flatworms (Platyhelminthes: Terricola) are sensitive to environmental changes and might be used as biological indicators of the degree of disturbance of their habitats. Nevertheless, studies on the structure of land flatworm communities are rare. In the present study, we investigated the terrestrial flatworm communities in two types of ombrophilous forest, Atlantic forest and Araucaria forest, aiming to answer the following questions: (1) Is the community structure of the two types of ombrophilous forest different? (2) Are there differences, regarding community structure, among distinct fragments of Araucaria forest? (3) Are there indicators of edge effects in these communities? The study site, the National Park of Aparados da Serra, is mainly covered, at high altitudes, by fragments of Araucaria forest immersed in a matrix of open areas (grasslands) and, in low altitudes, by a continuous Atlantic forest. We conducted monthly surveys in the two types of forest with three replications per forest type over a period of 2 years. Results indicated that: (1) community structure is clearly distinct between the two types of forest, as well as among fragments of the Araucaria forest; (2) there are no apparent edge effects; (3) the diversity indices of the two types of ombrophilous forest are not significantly different (Atlantic forest H' = 2.87, Araucaria forest H' = 2.55; p>0.05); and (4) there are significant differences in diversity indices between two fragments of Araucaria forest (H' = 2.92 and 2.47; p<0.001). The following factors could affect community structure: type of vegetation, degree of human disturbance, and abiotic factors, such as pH and temperature.
25623053|When free-living organisms evolve into symbiotic organisms (parasites, commensals, or mutualists), their bodyplan is often dramatically modified as a consequence. The present work pertains to the study of this process in a group of marine obligate symbiotic worms, the Myzostomida. These are mainly ectocommensals and are only associated with echinoderms, mostly crinoids. Their usual textbook status as a class of the Annelida is generally accepted, although recent molecular phylogenetic studies have raised doubts on their relationships with other metazoans, and the question of their status remains open. Here, we reconstruct the evolution of their bodyplans by mapping 14 external morphological characters (analyzed using scanning electron microscopy) onto molecular phylogenies using maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) optimality criteria. Rooted MP, ML, and Bayesian phylogenetic trees were obtained by analyzing the nucleotide sequences of cytochrome oxidase subunit I, 18S rDNA, and 16S rDNA genes, separately and in combination. Representatives of 34 species distributed among seven extant genera were investigated. Our character evolution analyses, combined with recent ontogenetic and ultrastructural evidence, indicate that the organism at the base of the myzostome tree would have had six body segments and five pairs of polychaete-type parapodia, and that two lineages emerged from it: one comprising parasites, with large females and dwarf males, which gave rise to the extant Pulvinomyzostomum and Endomyzostoma species, and a second lineage comprising simultaneously hermaphroditic ectocommensals, from which all other extant myzostome taxa probably evolved.
3227210| Temperate sea anemones in the genus Anthopleura are unique among enidarians in harboring two phylogenetically distinct symbiotic algae, zooxanthellae (golden-brown dinophytes, Symbiodinium) and zoochlorellae (green chlorophytes). To determine whether their physiological differences generate patterns in anemone habitat and biogeographic distribution, we sampled symbiotic algae in the small clonal A. elegantissima and the large solitary A. xanthogrammica at 8 field sites (and the other large solitary Anthopleura species at one site) spanning 18 of latitude along 2500 km of the Pacific coast of North America. We found that zoochlorellae predominate in low intertidal habitats and northerly latitudes and in A. xanthogrammica, while zooxanthellae constitute the majority of symbionts in high intertidal habitats and more southerly latitudes and in A. elegantissima. These data are consistent with published predictions based on photosynthetic efficiency of the two algae under varied temperature and light regimes in the laboratory. This anemone-algal system provides a potential biological signal of benthic intertidal communities' responses to El Nio events and long-term climate changes in the Pacific. 
3701501|Species of Helicoradomenia are constantly found at hydrothermal vent sites of the eastern and western Pacific Ocean. The digestive tract of 2 species of the genus was investigated with special focus on the ultrastructure and histochemistry of epithelia and glandular organs. The preoral cavity and foregut epithelia are composed of microvillous main cells, secretory cells producing protein-rich substances, and sensory cells with specialized cilia. The foregut bears a pair of glands with 3 types of extremely long-necked glandular cells surrounded by musculature. Each glandular cell opens directly into the radula pocket without a gland duct. The large radula apparatus consists of pairs of denticulated bars resting on a flexible radular membrane without elaboration of a subradular membrane. The midgut has a narrow, mid-dorsal tract of ciliary cells, but most of the epithelium is composed of digestive cells with a highly developed lysosomal system. The hindgut is lined by ciliated cells and free of glands. The foregut and radula seem to be highly efficient in the capture of relatively large, motile prey. Food contents within the midgut lumen and within some of the large secondary lysosomes indicate a triploblastic metazoan prey of non-cnidarian origin. The digestive tract is not adapted to microvory and there is no indication of a symbiosis with chemoautotrophic bacteria.
3701494|Echinoids are generally thought to develop only a single ectodermal invagination (V1), which expands into a vestibule and contributes to the formation of the juvenile rudiment on the left side of the larval body. However, in 2 echinoid species, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus and Dendraster excentricus, a second invagination (V2) was observed to form on the right side of the larval body exactly opposite V1. Formation of the invaginations was followed and characterized using light microscopy and antibodies directed against the S2amide echinoderm neuropeptide as a morphological tag. V2 consistently formed later than V1, and appeared capable of contributing to the formation of a second rudiment when it received the appropriate mesodermal influence from contact with a hydrocoel. Otherwise, in both species, V2 formed a skeletal element that has not been previously described in this location. Because of the location, shape, and timing of its formation, V2, like V1, appears to have the innate ability of the larval ectoderm to contribute to juvenile rudiment formation.
10.2307/3226837|Data are presented on the ultrastructure of the sclerotised parts in the female system of the symbiotic turbellarian (Platyhelminthes) Syndesmis longicanalis. The bursal canal, insemination canal, and bursal valve are basement membrane derivatives. These structures are compared with hard parts derived from basement membrane in other turbellarians. The taxonomic value of the bursal value in Umagillidae is rejected.
10.2307/3226873|Samples of Euhyperamoeba biospherica n. sp., a free-living, marine, multinucleate, limax ameba of Caribbean origin (via the Biosphere 2 Ocean and a Georgetown University marine aquarium) were examined by light and transmission electron microscopy. The amebas grossly resemble two previously described species of marine, multinucleate limax amebas, Euhyperamoeba fallax and Gruberella flavescens. They differ, however, in their large size and thousands of nuclei. They also differ in containing structures that resemble bacteria more than mitochondria because of their ultrastructure and presumed division figures and because they produce rods composed of filaments or microtubules. We suggest that these amebas are more primitive than E. fallax or G. flavescens and may, therefore, contribute to our understanding of the evolution of organelles, such as mitochondria, in eukaryotic cells.
3227204|The lectin wheat-germ agglutinin (WGA) selectively binds N-acetyl-D-glucosamine. Fluorescence and electron microscopy were used to show that WGA stains the cytoplasmic granules in the granulocytes, but not the hyaline cells, of two decapods, the ridgeback prawn Sicyonia ingentis and the American lobster Homarus americanus. Using fluorescence microscopy, two intermediate stages in granulocyte maturation were observed. Cells smaller than typical small-granule hemocytes were observed with 5 or fewer granules, which in previous studies using brightfield and phase optics were probably counted as hyaline cells. Also, some granulocytes were observed containing both small and large granules, supporting the suggestion that small and large granule hemocytes represent stages in the maturation of one cell line. Granules in the single type of hemocyte in the branchiopod Artemia franciscana did not stain with WGA. The possible roles of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine in wound healing, pathogen encapsulation, and maintenance of normal crustecean connective tissues are discussed.
4124903|Many cryptobranch dorid nudibranchs contain innumerable calcareous spicules, yet the function of these elements is unknown. Two possible roles are defense against predators and structural support. In one dorid, Cadlina luteomarginata, whole-mount and thin-section staining revealed an intricate network of spicule tracts and connective tissue ramifying throughout the body, with muscle fibers associated with this spicule/connective tissue matrix and inserting into it. Spicules were present in high concentrations in all areas of the body, but highest in exterior mantle tissue. Relative investment increased isometrically with body size for most body regions, in contrast to the positively allometric investment seen in prosobranch shells. Bioassays with artificial food indicated that spicules alone did not deter generalist crabs and anemones, and only weakly increased the deterrence of secondary chemicals to anemones. Thus, while nudibranch spicules may serve as a defense against other predators, their primary role may be in body support.
10.2307/3226999|The integumental ultrastructure of the trunk and proboscis of the echiuran Maxmuelleria lankesteri is described. In the trunk, a complex cuticle overlies an epithelium of support and secretory cells. The proboscis has a typical ciliated epithelium with a simpler cuticle but more microvilli than the trunk. A close similarity with the integument of Urechis caupo suggests a high degree of morphological conservatism in echiurans. Rod-shaped bacteria were found in the basal cuticle of the trunk. The most striking and unexpected feature of the trunk integument was the presence, in the cytoplasm and nuclei of support cells, of crystalline arrays that may be viral in origin.
3227194|The fragmentation and rearrangement of the ciliary bands that occurs during the auricularia-to-doliolaria transformation is described for the non-feeding auricularia larva of Holothuria mexicana and the more typical planktotrophic auricularia of Stichopus californicus. The ciliary band of the auricularia larva runs along a series of ridges that project from the sides of the body. Fragmentation results from a loss of ciliary band cells from the zones between the ridges. The remaining fragments then reorient, elongate, and fuse to form the 5 circumferential bands of the doliolaria. The fate of the band cells lost during this process could not be determined with certainty, but they disappear after being sequestered beneath the epithelium for a time, probably through histolysis. Cell counts indicate that significant numbers of cells are also lost from the ridges. Normal swimming ceases just before transformation begins, probably because the nerve supply to all or parts of the band is disrupted, and this may play a role in initiating morphogenesis.
40981238|Settlement is an important process in the biphasic life histories of many marine invertebrates. Little is known regarding the fine-scale behavioral mechanisms for finding and attaching to a suitable substratum, particularly under conditions that may impose a potential challenge, such as flow. In this study, we examined the settlement behavior of cyphonautes larvae of the bryozoan, Membranipora membranacea, in response to two different algal substrata. Larvae showed a strong preference for settling on the kelp Nereocystis luetkeana over the red alga Mazzaella splendens. We then tested whether the behavioral mechanisms used by larvae to attach to these algae differed when presented with the challenge of flowing water during settlement. We found that larvae exhibited different behaviors on the two species of algae in flowing water. Larvae were more often observed in direct contact with the preferred alga (N. luetkeana) exhibiting fine-scale active search behaviors. On the less preferred alga (M. splendens), larvae were less frequently observed in direct contact with the alga, and appeared to be exhibiting broad-scale passive search behaviors along the surface of the blade. Our results suggest that cyphonautes larvae alter their behavior in response to their preferred settlement habitat.
40206192|Brachyptery in female moths is a common phenomenon. This article examines the eyes of the moth Operophtera brumata, in which only the males have wings. Both sexes possess eyes of the superposition type, have facets with corneal nipples, and exhibit eyeglow, but the eye of the male has 2174 facets, measures 725 m in diameter, and has a clear zone of 112-m width. That of the female has 1352 facets, measures 557 m across, and has a 77-m-wide clear zone. There were no significant differences in rhabdom diameters (10 m) and tracheal sheath development, but male rhabdoms were significantly longer (85 vs. 65 m). Dark/light adaptational changes manifested themselves in the positions of the distal screening pigment granules: between the cones during darkness and into the clear zone during light adaptation. The combination of a larger radius of curvature, wider clear zone, and longer rhabdoms gives the males a sensitivity at least twice that of the female. The narrower interommatidial angles of the male (2.8 vs. 3.2) together with the well-developed tracheal rhabdom sheaths, furthermore, provide the eyes of the males with better resolution. Finally, eye-glow intensity in males diminishes considerably faster in light than it does in females. The differences between males and females appear to reflect their different roles: males begin to search after sunset in and around stands of trees for the pheromone-emitting females, which sit on the trunk of the tree under which they had emerged from their pupal case. Flying males encounter rapid light intensity changes and have to evade obstacles and enemies. The females are considerably more sedentary, but once mated, still seek suitable oviposition sites long after the males have ceased searching for them. During this activity, the females also need visual sensitivity and acuity, but less than the actively flying males.
3701484|Most species of freshwater cyclopoid copepods follow a conventional course of DNA replication during gametogenesis, but certain species regularly undergo chromatin diminution during early embryogenesis, a process that is accompanied by the exclusion of large amounts of heterochromatic DNA from progenitor somatic cells and selective retention of this DNA by primordial germ cells after their segregation from the soma. We have used scanning microdensitometry and image analysis cytometry of individual Feulgen-stained nuclei to determine the DNA levels of individual somatic cell nuclei, oocytes, spermatocytes, and sperm for seven species, including Acanthocyclops brevispinosus, Acanthocyclops vernalis, Ectocyclops phaleratus, Eucyclops agilis, Eucy clops ensifer, Macrocyclops albidus, and Thermocyclops decipiens. The oocyte nuclei of these species have twice the DNA content of their diploid somatic cell nuclei. In specimens of Cyclops strenuus, Mesocyclops edax, Mesocyclops longisetus, Mesocyclops longisetus curvatus, and Metacyclops mendocinus, marked increases in DNA levels were noted in both female and male germ cells before meiosis. The appearance of enlarged nuclei with densely stained chromocenters is a distinguishing feature of oocytes and spermatocytes of cyclopoid species that exhibit excessive accumulations of DNA during gametogenesis and subsequently undergo chromatin diminution. The net increase in DNA content of the prediminution nuclei is 6-10 times the DNA level of their somatic cell nuclei and is largely attributable to increases in the amount of DNA associated with their heterochromatic chromocenters. The identification of a morphologically distinctive type of germ cell and its dramatic accumulation of large amounts of DNA before meiosis are discussed in terms of the selective elimination of heterochromatin during early cleavage stages in these cyclopoid species.
3701471|The albumen gland of the freshwater pulmonate snail Helisoma duryi produces and secretes the perivitelline fluid, which coats fertilized eggs and provides nutrients to the developing embryos. It is known that perivitelline fluid secretion is stimulated by dopamine through the activation of a dopamine
10.2307/3226842|Ovarian structure and cellular composition of the oocyte and associated cells in Brachycentrus incanus (Insecta: Trichoptera) were examined by light and transmission electron microscopy. The ovary consisted of numerous ovarioles, each containing at least one maturing oocyte with its associated nurse cells and follicle cells. The ooplasm consisted primarily of electron-dense yolk bodies and lipid droplets. An oocyte nucleus was discernible only in preand early vitellogenic stages. Seven nurse cells, at the distal end of each oocyte, were connected through cytoplasmic bridges to the oocyte and to each other. Each large lobate nurse cell nucleus contained uniformly spaced clumps of heterochromatin and numerous nuclear pores; the cytoplasm contained mitochondria, a small amount of non-dilated granular endoplasmic reticulum (GER), agranular vesicles, and numerous free ribosomes. Follicle cells, which formed a layer around the oocyte, each contained a large oval nucleus with abundant heterochromatin and a moderate number of nuclear pores; the cytoplasm contained abundant dilated GER, mitochondria, Golgi bodies, and free ribosomes. Oocyte microvilli interdigitated with those of the follicle cells through a filamentous extracellular material of variable electron density. This is the first detailed description of egg chamber ultrastructure in this major insect order. The overall structure is very similar to that of other neopterous insect orders, including Lepidoptera, to which Trichoptera is generally considered to be closely related.
3227134|Difficulties in addressing relationships among sea anemones are explored in the context of a revision of the family Edwardsiidae. This family has been important in discussions of relationships within Zoantharia (Cnidaria, Anthozoa), but has been poorly characterized. Genera within Edwardsiidae are characterized by a mosaic distribution of a few key characters whose actual distribution is not well understood; generalized and idealized morphology, rather than the actual distribution of characters, has been previously used to delimit genera. Microanatomy of muscles and the body wall, qualitative and quantitative information about muscle shape, and nematocyst size are combined with 18S rDNA sequences in a cladistic analysis. The results demonstrate that some traditional diagnostic features support groups different from those previously recognized. Character support is identified for several previously proposed taxa or clades, including the genus Edwardsiella and a clade containing Nematostella and Drillactis. Edwardsiidae and several of its genera are monophyletic; however, groups within the subfamily Edwardsiinae require revision and recircumscription. The genus Edwardsia is paraphyletic, and these data do not resolve Edwardsia species into monophyletic groups.
40206211|The starlet sea anemone, Nematostella vectensis Stephenson 1935, is a burrowing, estuarine species that has become a model organism for fundamental studies of cnidarian and metazoan development. During early oogenesis, oocytes appear in the basal region of the gastrodermis in the reproductive mesenteries and gradually bulge into the adjacent connective tissue space (mesoglea) where the majority of oocyte growth and vitellogenesis occurs. However, oocytes do not physically contact the cellular and amorphous matrix of the mesogleal compartment due to a thin, intervening basal lamina. Oocytes retain limited contact with the basal gastrodermal epithelium via groups of ultrastructurally modified gastrodermal cells called trophocytes. Trophocytes are monociliated accessory cells of somatic origin that collectively form a structure called the trophonema, a unique accessory cell/oocyte association not observed outside the Cnidaria. The trophonema consists of 50-60 trophocytes that maintain contact with <1% of the oocyte surface and forms a circular, bowel-shaped depression on the luminal surface of the gastrodermis as they sink into the mesoglea with the oocyte. The oocyte remains highly polarized throughout oogenesis with the germinal vesicle positioned near the trophonema and presumably representing the future animal pole of the embryo. Contact between the trophonema and the oocyte is restricted to cell junctions connecting peripheral trophocytes and narrow extensions from the oocyte. Previous studies suggest that the trophonema plays a role in transport of extracellular digestive products from the gastrovascular cavity to the oocyte, and the ultrastructural features described in this study are consistent with that view. Vitellogenesis is described for the first time in a sea anemone. Yolk synthesis involves both autosynthetic and heterosynthetic processes including the biosynthetic activity of the Golgi complex and the uptake of extraoocytic yolk precursors via endocytosis, respectively.
23016254|Although the reproductive biology and early life-history stages of deep-sea corals are poorly understood, such data are crucial for their conservation and management. Here, we describe the timing of larval release, planula behavior, metamorphosis, settlement, and early juvenile growth of two species of deep-sea soft corals from the northwest Atlantic. Live colonies of Gersemia fruticosa maintained under flow-through laboratory conditions released 79 planulae (1.52.5 mm long) between April and early June 2007. Peak planulation in G. fruticosa coincided with peaks in the chlorophyll concentration and deposition rates of planktic matter. Metamorphosis and settlement occurred 370d post-release. The eight primary mesenteries typically appeared within 24h, and primary polyps grew to a height of 610 mm and a stalk diameter of 1 mm within 23 months. Planulae of Duva florida (1.52.5 mm long) were extracted surgically from several colonies and were successfully reared in culture. Primary polyps reached a height of 34 mm within 23 months. No budding of primary polyps was observed in either species over 1113 months of monitoring, suggesting a very slow growth rate.
3227144|Allozymes were assessed by starch gel electrophoresis in 3 populations of a eutardigrade, Richtersius coronifer, with different reproductive modes. One population from Italy (with 2 sub-populations) was amphimictic and 2 populations (1 from Italy and 1 from Sweden) were parthenogenetic. All populations, irrespective of their reproductive mode, were diploid with the same chromosome number (2n=12) and had bivalents in the oocytes. Of the 14 loci analyzed, only 3 were polymorphic. The amphimictic population had a higher degree of genetic variability (mean heterozygosity >0.25) than the parthenogenetic populations (mean heterozygosity of the 2 populations <0.01). In all female populations, allele frequencies at all 3 loci deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibria due to heterozygote deficiency. These results support a hypothesis of automictic parthenogenesis in R. coronifer.
40981225|Egg hull formation during oogenesis in the chiton Callochiton dentatus does not follow the typical model of merocrine secretion involving Golgi vesicle exocytosis. Instead, microapocrine secretions are primarily responsible for egg hull formation, although merocrine secretions contribute "areolae" and the vitelline layer. Microapocrine secretion mechanisms are poorly understood, involving a different cellular pathway than is typical. Egg hull formation in C. dentatus involves two types of microapocrine secretions released by the oocyte, one of which is described here for the first time. The plesiomorphic jelly-like egg hull of chitons, as exemplified by the eggs of members of the basal order Lepidopleurida and present also in eggs of C. dentatus (Chitonida: Callichitonidae), may have evolved solely as an oocyte secretion, whereas members of some other families in the order Chitonida form their egg hulls with considerable secretory input from the follicle cells as well.
10.2307/3226909|Before copulation in Dugesia gonocephala, eosinophilic secretions of glands in the penis diaphragm and in the most proximal part of the ejaculatory duct accumulate in the funnel-shaped part of the ejaculatory duct and cohere to form a sclerotized, tubular structure, sealed at the distal end and covered internally with secretions of glands at the tip of the diaphragm conus. The elongating tube fills with a mixture of sperms, released in small clusters from both sperm ducts, and two types of seminal secretions produced by gland cells of the seminal vesicle. This causes the sealed end of the tube to inflate, forming a spherical, stalked bladder. As copulation begins, each mating partner inserts its penis with the protruding spermatophore into the vaginal area of the bursal canal of the partner. Penis insertion causes the penis papilla to elongate, the diaphragm conus to invert, and the seminal vesicle to expand. The latter is filled with a loosely packed substance. The increase in surface area is probably facilitated by the presence of epithelial cells with an expandable apical end. The spermatophore bladder expands to its full size during copulation as large amounts of sperms and seminal secretions are released into it. Filling of the spermatophore ends with the transfer of the spermatophore into the partner's bursa. No additional sperms or seminal secretions are transferred after spermatophore exchange is completed. Spermatophore transfer causes the lumen of the seminal vesicle to collapse and the diaphragm to regain its conical shape, suggesting that the seminal vesicle functions as a kind of mechanical pump.
3701504|A new mechanism of asexual multiplication of colonies is described in a colonial ascidian of the genus Clavelina (Aplousobranchiata). The mechanism consisted of the production of star-shaped buds that originate from a basal vessel that bends anteriorly and extends along the dorsal region of the zooids. Once they are well developed, the buds detached easily and were dispersed by water movement. Analysis of the fine structure of the buds revealed that they were a modification of the stolonic budding common in this genus. Timelapse video recordings showed that released buds required several days to develop, allowing for a potentially significant dispersal range. The buds underwent organogenesis during which the central part gave rise to a new blastozooid with a defined polarity; the arms of the star gave rise to stolons. A new species is defined based on the presence of this type of budding and on other morphological features. The significance of these findings, which adds to the known mechanisms of asexual reproduction in ascidians, is discussed in relation to the biology and distribution of the species.
3227227|We examined claw characteristics of mud crabs (Eurypanopeus depressus, Rhithropanopeus harrisii) to determine if one crab species was potentially more powerful than the other. We related our findings to the abilities of individuals of each species to open epifaunal mytiliform bivalves (Ischadium recurvum; Mytilopsis leucophaeata) that occur on beds of eastern oysters (Crassostrea virginica) in mesohaline Chesapeake Bay. There were high correlations between claw width or height and claw length, and between claw length and carapace width for both mud crab species. The mechanical advantage or "grip strength" of the crusher and cutter claws of both species did not change with crab size (carapace width) and did not differ between sexes in each species, nor did the cutter data differ between species. However, individuals of E. depressus had a significantly stronger crusher claw grip than did those of R. harrisii. Data on mechanical advantage for both species were similar to values reported in the literature for members of other xanthid crab species. These values in turn overlapped those reported for calappid, cancrid, majid, and grapsid crabs, and were greater than those of various species of portunid crabs and individual species of fiddler crab, lobster, crayfish, and ghost shrimp. When simultaneously presented with the two species of bivalves, the mud crabs E. depressus chose mussels of M. leucophaeata first and crabs of R. harrisii chose mussels of I. recurvum first about two-thirds of the time; ultimately, the crabs ate both bivalve species in >50% of the choice experiments. The size range in E. depressus was greater than that in R. harrisii, and crabs of E. depressus opened larger bivalves than did crabs of R. harrisii, although similar-sized individuals of the two crab species overlapped in their ability to open bivalves of both species. In Mytilopsis leucophaeata, there is probably no size refuge from predation by the mud crabs whereas the larger mussels of I. recurvum do have a refuge in size.
3701502| The reproductive biology of polychaetes includes a diverse array of characteristics that sometimes have been related to features of the habitat and others times appear to be phylogenetically constrained. The reproductive biology of polychaetes from deep-sea hydrothermal vents is of particular interest, given the continuing supply of food when vents are active and the ephemeral nature of the vent environment. As part of a survey of reproductive attributes of vent polychaetes, we undertook a descriptive study of the anatomy of the ampharetid polychaete, Amathys lutzi, which lives in mucus-lined tubes attached to mussel shells or rocks at hydrothermal vent sites along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Reproductive features of ampharetids from the Logatchev vent site were examined with serial sections under light microscopy and with transmission electron microscopy. Members of A. lutzi are gonochoric and lack external sexual dimorphism. Gonads are associated with 3 pairs of mixonephridia found laterally in the anterior region of the polychaete. Oocytes undergo extraovarian oogenesis and are released into the coelom in the previtellogenic phase. Maximum oocyte diameter is ~190 rm, suggesting lecithotrophic development. Within individual females, oocyte size-frequencies suggest the presence of cohorts of maturing oocytes, consistent with periodic release of gametes. There is no evidence for sperm storage in females. Early stages of developing sperm are also found in the coelom; mature sperm fit the general description of ect-aquasperm. These reproductive characteristics of individuals of A. lutzi are similar to those of the Pacific vent ampharetid, Amphisamytha galapagensis. 
25623051|Gramastacus insolitus is a very small non-burrowing Australian freshwater crayfish with a restricted distribution, occurring almost exclusively in seasonal habitats throughout its range. It is listed as a threatened species but its strategy for surviving dry periods was unknown. Eight seasonal surveys of crayfish distribution showed that members of G. insolitus were never found at sites that were outside the distribution of two larger burrowing freshwater crayfish species, Geocharax falcata and Cherax destructor. Excavation of 80 burrows of members of G. falcata and C. destructor in three different seasonal habitats in the Grampians National Park, Victoria, Australia, revealed that individuals of G. insolitus found refuge from drying by estivating in cracks and shallow depressions at the side of the main burrow tunnels constructed by larger species. Members of G. insolitus were not found estivating at the surface, such as under fallen wood, nor was it usually found in crayfish burrows unoccupied by the host crayfish. This study indicates that members of G. insolitus are commensal upon larger crayfish species, using their burrows to survive the seasonal drying of their habitat. Conservation strategies for populations of G. insolitus will need to consider co-existing species of burrowing crayfish.
3227157|Some gastropods appear to utilize a strategy for regulating testosterone levels that is atypical of such processes thus far identified in other metazoans. While most animals convert testosterone largely to polar derivatives that are readily eliminated from the organism, the mud snail Ilyanassa obsoleta converts testosterone to apolar testosterone-fatty acid esters that are retained by the organism. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that fatty acid esterification serves to store testosterone and that stored testosterone-fatty acid ester pools vary through the reproductive cycle of the snail. This hypothesis was tested by 1) modulating total testosterone levels in individual snails and measuring the amount of the hormone stored as the fatty acid ester relative to the amount retained as free steroid and 2) measuring changes in esterified testosterone in a field population of snails during their reproductive cycle. Adult snails were experimentally manipulated to contain from ~36-300% the level of total testosterone measured in unmanipulated individuals. The amount of testosterone-fatty acid ester present in these organisms increased in direct proportion to the level of total testosterone, while, free testosterone levels remained relatively constant. These observations suggest that free testosterone levels are regulated in the snail by fatty acid esterification/de-esterification processes. Among field sampled snails, testosterone existed predominantly in the free, non-esterified form at the onset and end of the egg laying period. At other times, the majority of testosterone was sequestered as fatty acid esters. This study provides compelling evidence that free testosterone levels in the mud snail are regulated through fatty acid esterification/de-esterification processes and this regulatory function contributes to seasonal fluctuations in free testosterone levels.
10.2307/3226995| Cultured fragments of the hexactinellid sponge, Rhabdocalyptus dawsoni, were observed feeding on 1.0 m latex beads. Using contrast-enhanced video microscopy of live cultures, the events preceding, during, and after phagocytosis were observed. Particle ingestion occurred almost exclusively in flagellated areas where the water currents generated by the flagella of collar bodies could trap and hold particles against sponge tissue. Transmission electron microscopy of cultures fixed after feeding on latex beads showed that collar bodies themselves do not participate in particle phagocytosis. Rather, it is the primary and, probably, the secondary reticula of the trabecular reticulum in the flagellated chamber wall which effect phagocytosis. The intact sponge's tissue organization appears admirably suited for particle capture, and these sponges are likely to be, at least in part, particle feeders in their natural habitat. 
3701499|A new species of Clavagellidae, Bryopa aligamenta, from Okinawa, Japan, is described. The species is endolithic in living corals, with the left valve cemented to the crypt wall, as in all clavagellids. The free right valve exhibits an unusual growth pattern, with commarginal lines seemingly arising from the posterior valve margin and extending towards the anterior. This results from: (i) progressive anterior erosion of the umbones, probably as a consequence of the boring process; (ii) the apparent migration posteriorly, as the umbones are eroded, of the dorso-ventral growth axis of the shell; and (iii) enhanced posterior inter-commarginal growth. Unlike other clavagellid genera and species, however, there is no discernible primary ligament, at least in the adult. It is possible, however, that if a juvenile ligament were present (as in B. lata), it too would be lost as a consequence of antero-dorsal erosion during boring. To retain valve alignment in the absence of a primary ligament, and possibly upon reaching an adult size, the mantle lays down alternating layers of calcium carbonate and proteinaceous periostracum onto the interior surface of the shell to thicken it, most noticeably marginally and, especially, posteriorly. The two valves are united dorsally, therefore, by thin layers of periostracum that probably exert a minimal opening force. B. aligamenta is, however, further characterised by large adductor, palliai, and siphonal retractor muscles so that the entire animal is encased tightly within an internally strengthened shell within a crypt. Movement must be minimal, blood being pumped into palliai haemocoels to push open the valves and extend the siphons. Despite a suggestion to the contrary, Bryopa is retained in the Clavagellidae, its unusual growth processes resulting from an endolithic life style within living corals. The fossil clavagellid Stirpulina bacillus, from the Pliocene/Pleistocene of Palermo, Sicily, Italy, was, unlike Bryopa aligamenta and other clavagellids, endobenthic, with a long adventitious tube and anterior watering pot superficially similar to species of Penicillidae, another family of the Clavagelloidea. Furthermore, as in all clavagellids only the left valve is fused into the fabric of the tube, the right being free within it. In all penicillids, both valves are fused into the fabric of their tubes. The watering pots of the fossil S. coronata, S. vicentina, and S. bacillus, moreover, are formed in a different manner to that of penicillids, by progressive encasement of the right valve inside the tube. In penicillids, the tube is secreted in a single event from the general mantle surface and the incorporation of both valves into its fabric. The constituent genera of the Clavagellidae thus constitute an example of parallel evolution with members of the Penicillidae.
3227181|The apex of the larval antenna of the crane fly Nephrotoma suturalis has 6 cuticular sensilla that stained intensely black with silver nitrate, which indicates their porosity. The large sensory cone is innervated by 14 neurons and the 3 small, smooth surfaced, conical pegs have 4 neurons each. The small and large cylindrical sensilla with their smooth walls and pleated apices are innervated by 4 and 6 nerve cells, respectively. The 15 sensilla on the apex of the maxillary palp are all stained by silver nitrate. These sensilla are of five types: 7 type A sensilla with a smooth surface, a distinct apical pore, and 3 or 4 neurons; 2 type B sensilla with a smooth surface, many pores, and 5 neurons; 1 type C sensillum with a grooved surface, a large apical pore, smaller pores in the grooves, and 6 neurons; 3 type D sensilla with a smooth surface, a grooved apex that is elongated into a projection, and 4 neurons; 2 type E sensilla with many pores covering the surface, leaf-like appearance, and 4 neurons. The number and types of sensilla are similar to those in other nematocerous larvae, but in the many different forms of sensilla and the structure of the sensory cone, these tipulid larvae differ greatly from other larvae of lower Diptera.
10.2307/3226886|Traditional scenarios of gastropod evolution suggest that the apical openings and marginal slits of keyhole limpets and other fissurellids play a key role in maintaining mantle cavity sanitation by facilitating separation of clean incurrent and waste-laden excurrent flow. The occurrence of animals that never develop excurrent openings or in which the opening is blocked by fouling organisms, however, indicates that this may not be the case. We examined the mantle cavity morphology and characterized the respiratory flow of individuals of Diodora aspera in which the apical opening was naturally or experimentally blocked. We found no evidence of damage to the mantle cavity or associated organs. Water entered ventro-posteriorly to the gill tips, which were extended beyond the mantle margin, and exited over the head. Thus the apical opening is not necessary for the effective removal of wastes. The opening is necessary, however, to induce passive flow through the mantle cavity. We suggest that this function of the apical opening may have been as significant as its role in sanitation for the evolution of fissurellid gastropods.
3227237|Larvae of the freshwater mussel Utterbackia imbecillis metamorphose to juveniles either during their attachment to a host fish, or in vitro in a culture medium. This transformation includes degeneration of larval structures and development of the juvenile morphology. Early in metamorphosis the cells comprising the larval mantle enlarge and project into the mantle cavity, forming a structure referred to as the mushroom body. Its cells, which are ultrastructurally very similar to digestive cells of adult bivalves, are involved in pinocytosis or phagocytosis of the larval adductor muscle and of tissue from the host fish that is enclosed between the larval shells. Ingested material is passed from pinosomes to heterophagosomes which in turn fuse with heterolysosomes, where final degradation of ingested material occurs. Acid phosphatase activity was detected in heterophagosomes and heterolysosomes of all animals examined. In larvae that metamorphosed in vitro, the apical cytoplasm of the cells of the mushroom body, and the extracellular spaces among them, also exhibited acid phosphatase activity. Larvae reared on a host fish accumulated substantial deposits of lipids and glycogen within larval mantle cells during metamorphosis, whereas larvae reared in vitro did not. The larval mantle cells which constitute the mushroom body appear to be the primary sites of intracellular digestion of the larval adductor muscle and host tissue during metamorphosis.
3227124| The zebra mussel is an introduced fouling organism in North American inland waters. This field study tested whether natural biofilms, formed by covering substrata with a 100-m mesh that allows microorganisms to attach and films to develop in the absence of postveligers, influenced the attachment of zebra mussel postveligers to artificial surfaces. Low-wettable polycarbonate and wettable glass surfaces were used in the experiments over four field seasons to study biofilm formation (1997-1998) and mussel attachment (1998-2000). The presence of the mesh did not quantitatively affect biofilm development on either substratum as determined by microscopic direct counts and colony-forming units on R2A agar. Natural biofilms on polycarbonate surfaces positively influenced postveliger attachment compared to substrata that initially had no film (ANOVA, p-values ranged from .05 to .001). Biofilms did not influence postveliger attachment to glass surfaces (ANOVA, p>.05). Attachment to both substrata was similar on surfaces with and without previously settled postveligers. Based on these results, we conclude that biofilms can enhance postveliger attachment to some but not all artificial surfaces. 
10.2307/3226994| Three-dimensional images of the choanosome of hexactinellid sponges can help in explaining how these sponges mix cellular and syncytial tissues in a fine cobweb-like network. Plastic replicas of the water canals show that Rhabdocalyptus dawsoni has large, highly branched incurrent canals, and equally large, although less branched, excurrent canals that are studded with 60 m-long flagellated chambers. Freeze-fractured, fixed specimens show the syncytial tissue, known as the trabecular reticulum, envelops cells in a thin collagenous mesohyl at the flagellated chambers in both R. dawsoni and Aphrocallistes vastus. Groups of archaeocytes are especially abundant in the mesohyl of R. dawsoni during summer months. A branch of the trabecular reticulum, the secondary reticulum, surrounds the collars in the flagellated chambers, effectively forcing water to be drawn through the collar microvilli. Another branch, the inner membrane, occupies up to 10% of flagellated chambers of sponges during all months of the year, but is especially prevalent in specimens which have been kept in sea water aquaria for several weeks. This three-dimensional view of hexactinellid tissues reinforces the conclusion that hexactinellid sponges be separated from other sponges at the subphylum level. 
4621886|Acochlidian gastropods combine several aberrant biological and morphological features. The poorly known Caribbean Tantulum elegans is one of the few opisthobranch species inhabiting a freshwater system, and the only one found in muddy interstices of a Caribbean mountain spring swamp. Morphological details of this tiny species were either unknown or not fully reliable, especially with regard to the complex central nervous and reproductive systems. We critically re-examined original paratype section series and prepared semi-thin serial sections of two additional paratypes. All organ systems were three-dimensionally reconstructed using AMIRA software. Our results show several discrepancies from the original description: the pharynx is a complex system of different muscles, but similar to that of other acochlidian species; the circulatory system shows a two-chambered heart; in the nervous system there are separate optic and rhinophoral ganglia, the latter innervating a pair of small sensory pits we assume to be Hancock's organs, and large aggregations of precerebral accessory ganglia were found. Nephropore, anus, and female gonopore open dextroventrally. To our surprise, adults of T. elegans are sequential hermaphrodites with an unusual androdiaulic reproductive system and a well-developed cephalic penial complex. In T. elegans, there is a mix of character conditions found in different genera, e.g., Pseudunela and Asperspina. The phylogenetic position of T. elegans still remains unclear.
10.2307/3226836| Leidyana migrator n. sp. (Apicomplexa: Eugregarinida) is described from the alimentary tract of the Madagascar hissing cockroach. Gromphadorhina portentosa (Insecta: Blattodea), taken from research colonies in Texas. This is the first species of Leidyana described from a cockroach, and the complete life cycle and development are presented. Although trophozoites and gamonts of L. migrator overlap morphometrically with those of the 2 most similar congeners, L. erratica and L. oviformis, each of the 3 species displays unique characters. The lanceolate epimerite of L. oviformis distinguishes this species from L. migrator and L. erratica, which possess a simple, globular epimerite. Leidyana migrator and L. erratica are separated by differences in their gametocysts, dehiscence, and oocysts. The gametocysts of L. migrator are elliptoid with an average length of 1,066 m; they dehisce through 6 spore tubes, releasing dolioform oocysts measuring S m by 4 m. In contrast, the gametocysts of L. erratica are spherical and 260-350 m in diameter; they dehisce through 1-12 spore tubes, releasing dolioform oocysts measuring 6 m by 3 m. 
10.2307/3226923|The little-known bryozoan Membranipora eburnea Hincks is redescribed and designated the type species of the new genus Jellyella. The twinned ancestrula of this malacostegan-grade cheilostome places it within the Membraniporidae, along with Membranipora and Biflustra. Jellyella is distinguished by the presence of intricately branched processes (spinules) projecting into the zooidal chambers, and a calcitic skeletal ultrastructure of transversely arranged, elongate spindles. The "Gulf weed bryozoan," Membranipora tuberculata (Bosc), is also assigned to the new genus as Jellyella tuberculata. Both species of Jellyella seem primarily to encrust floating substrates: based on available museum material. J. eburnea usually grows on drifting shells of dead individuals of the cephalopod Spirula but can also be found as an epizoan of the floating gastropod Janthina and on algae; J. tuberculata is normally an epiphyte of Sargassum. Collections of Spirula shells from beaches around the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic Oceans are commonly encrusted by J. eburnea but very seldom by any other bryozoans. Jellyella is therefore interpreted as a rare example of a pseudoplanktonic genus among the typically benthic bryozoans.
10.2307/3227020|Tropocyclops jamaicensis n. sp. is the most numerous copepod and frequently the most numerous metazoan of phytotelmata in leaf axils of terrestrial bromeliads of the Cockpit Country, Jamaica. Distinctive apomorphies of this species, particularly the naked pediger 5 and the 2 setae on leg 5, necessitate emending the diagnosis of the genus Tropocyclops. Tropocyclops jamaicensis occurred in 63% of bromeliads sampled, but the next most numerous copepod, Ectocyclops phaleratus, occurred in 17.5%. In colonization experiments, T. jamaicensis, along with ostracodes and chironomid and mosquito larvae, invaded some plants within 2 to 5 weeks. After 13 weeks, 8 of 10 plants harbored populations of this copepod.
3701458|Myxozoans belonging to the recently described class Malacosporea parasitize freshwater bryozoans during at least part of their life cycle. There are at present only two species described in this class: Buddenbrockia plumatellae and Tetracapsuloides bryosalmonae. The former can exist as vermiform and sac-like stages in bryozoan hosts. The latter, in addition to forming sac-like stages in bryozoans, is the causative agent of salmonid proliferative kidney disease (PKD). We undertook molecular and ultrastructural investigations of new malacosporean material to further resolve malacosporean diversity and systematics. Phylogenetic analyses of 18S rDNA sequences provided evidence for two new putative species belonging to the genus Buddenbrockia, revealing a two-fold increase in the diversity of malacosporeans known to date. One new malacosporean is a vermiform parasite infecting the bryozoan Fredericella sultana and the other occurs as sac-like stages in the rare bryozoan, Lophopus crystallinus. Both bryozoans represent new hosts for the genus Buddenbrockia. Our results have established that the malacosporean which infected F. sultana was not a vermiform stage of T. bryosalmonae, although it was collected from a site endemic for PKD. Ultrastructural investigation of new material of B. plumatellae revealed the presence of numerous external tubes associated with developing polar capsules, confirming that the absence of external tubes should no longer be considered as a character of the class Malacosporea.
4621901|Electron-dense organelles (EDOs) are a characteristic feature of marine annelids adapted to hydrogen sulfide, but little is known about their origin or fate or the mechanism by which they are formed. In this study, transmission electron microscopy was used to determine the appearance, quantity, and size distribution of EDOs in body wall epithelium of the sulfide-tolerant annelid Branchioasychis americana. EDOs were enclosed by either one or two lipid bilayers with a typical diameter in the range of 0.4-1.2 m. The contents included amorphous electron-dense material, lamellated membranes, and distinct membrane-bounded structures. In animals fixed immediately after collection from the mudflat, the EDO quantity was 0.148
10.2307/3226921| The surface features of larvae of a gordian worm, Chordodes morgani (Gordioidea), studied by scanning electron microscopy, were compared to those of other larval nematomorphs, until now known only from light microscopical studies. Larvae of C. morgani have a cylindrical body with 22 to 24 superficial segments, superficially divided at an ectodermal septum into a presoma and a trunk with a roughly 90 bend. Papillae are located distally on the proboscis, the base of which is surrounded by circles of spines or scales. Although the major features of the larvae are similar to those known in other species, details visible with SEM hold promise for providing useful diagnostic characters. 
10.2307/3227061|Classical anatomical investigations of the spengelid enteropneust Schizocardium brasiliense suggested that the hypobranchial ridge in the ventral midline of the pharynx is a homolog of the chordate endostyle. A re-investigation of pharyngeal anatomy and histology of S. brasiliense does not support this homology. Instead, the dorsal epibranchial ridge of the pharynx of S. brasiliense provides anatomical and histological correspondences with the ventral endostyle of chordates. The potential homology of a dorsal structure in Enteropneusta with a ventral one in Chordata is consistent with a recent evolutionary model for dorsal-ventral axis inversion in the evolution of chordates. Accepting this homology requires rejecting homology between the enteropneust stomochord and neurocord (collar cord) and the chordate notochord and nerve cord, respectively, but suggests a homology between the enteropneust ventral nerve cord and the chordate neural tube. We propose that functional inversion of the dorsal-ventral body axis occurred in the vertebrate clade and that the ancestor of the vertebrates lacked dorsal-ventral axis preference, as illustrated by the functional biology of protochordates. Moreover, body axis shifts may have occurred elsewhere in deuterostomes, particularly in the evolution of Echinodermata and Ascidiacea.
23016706|Black corals (Cnidaria: Antipatharia) are ecologically important members of the sessile invertebrate fauna, but due to their typical deep-water environments (> 50 m), very little is known about their basic biology, including reproduction. We used histological techniques to examine the sexual reproduction of members of eight species of antipatharians collected from the Hawaiian Islands over a wide depth range (101327 m). Gametes of all species examined were found in association with the primary transverse mesenteries, which in some cases reached into the cavity of lateral tentacles. Specimens contained either spermatocysts or oocytes, but never both within the same individual, suggesting either a gonochoric or a sequentially hermaphroditic mode of reproduction. No developing embryos or larvae were observed in any of the samples, indicating that fertilization and larval development likely occur externally in the water column and not internally within polyps. We compared our results with previously published information on the sexual reproduction of antipatharians. Our review suggests that in antipatharians, more generally, (1) entire colonies are either female or male (although sequential hermaphroditism cannot be ruled out in most cases and has been reported previously for one species), (2) gametes are confined to the primary transverse mesenteries in most species, and (3) there is no evidence of internal fertilization. Further studies are needed to determine whether gonochorism or sequential hermaphroditism is more prevalent within the Antipatharia, whether dimorphic polyps occur within this taxonomic order, and to examine the reproductive seasonality and larval behavior of individual species.
3227178|A transmission electron microscope study of fresh and cryopreserved Nereis virens larvae at the three chaetiger stage is described with special emphasis on examining the structure of the photoreceptors and surface ciliation of the head, the midgut epithelium, and muscle cells. Complex ectodermal structures such as the developing rhabdomeric adult eyes were unaffected by the cryopreservation procedure. Some loss of surface cilia on the prostomium was observed but is not life-threatening though it may restrict ciliary swimming in the recovered larvae. Loss of pigment from the prostomium is caused by osmotic stress. Structural damage was observed in the digestive tissues of the larvae cryopreserved before or after the optimum stage of development. This damage is potentially more serious and may account for the relatively short time period during development where cryopreservation can be successfully applied.
3227234|This study is focused on the formation and function of sagittocysts, which are secretions typical of members of the acoel family Sagittiferidae. The needle-shaped sagittocysts are produced in specialized gland cells (sagittocytes) whose distal necks are often surrounded by muscle mantles. Contraction of the muscle mantle ejects the sagittocyst. We establish a model for the development of sagittocytes and muscle mantles out of the stem cell pool of the new acoel species Symsagittifera corsicae. We used various techniques, especially interference and phase-contrast microscopy of living specimens as well as labeling of the body-wall musculature, for species characterization. In addition to the morphological features, we provide the third complete sequence of the 18S rDNA gene in the family Sagittiferidae.
10.2307/3226952|Scanning electron microscopical observations on the papillae of the proboscideal organs of Glycinde armigera present the first clear picture of the morphology of these complex structures and reveal some misconceptions based on earlier light-microscope studies. The number of papillae in area III showed a greater range (2 to 8 rows) than previously reported, and only one row of papillae was present in area IV. Tufts of cilia were recessed within subapical, cuplike depressions on the papillae of all areas. The proboscideal papillae of G. armigera appear to provide traction for burrowing and may participate in food gathering.
3227203|Sipunculans are a phylum of non-segmented, marine worms. Although they are well characterized morphologically, relationships within the phylum and the relationship of Sipuncula to other spiralian phyla have been strongly debated. I analyzed representatives of 13 of 17 described genera using a 654-bp fragment of the mitochondrial gene, cytochrome c oxidase subunit I, to construct the first intraphylum phylogenetic hypothesis for sipunculans based on molecular sequence data. Within the phylum, tree topologies are loosely congruent with a previously published morphological analysis, except that the monotypic genus Phascolopsis occurred within the Golfingiaformes as a sister group to, or nested within, the Themistidae. Phylogenetic analyses, including 30 sequences from additional invertebrate taxa, suggest that sipunculans are most closely related to the Annelida (including Echiura). A previously proposed sipunculan-molluscan relationship is not supported. While not universally accepted, this hypothesis is consistent with other recent and past data on phylum-level relationships.
3227150|Our study was conducted to determine whether small invertebrates of the shredder and collector feeding guilds would preferentially colonize fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) from fast-decaying species of leaves in central Florida streams. Bags of FPOM (0.2-1 mm) generated from maple, elm, sweetgum, and water oak leaves, as well as artificial Styrofoam, were suspended at two sites in Poley Creek, a 1st-order sand-bottomed stream. Three replicate bags of each type were collected from each site after 7, 14, and 28 d, and bacteria and invertebrates present were counted. Bacteria colonized maple and elm in significantly higher numbers than sweetgum, oak and Styrofoam. The amphipod Gammarus tigrinis accounted for 97% of all shredders in FPOM bags, and 63% of total invertebrates. Deposit-feeding chironomids comprised 87% of collectors and 28% of total invertebrates. No other taxon comprised >2% of total invertebrates. Large numbers of invertebrates colonized in the first 7 d, but densities did not increase after Day 7. Both shredders and total invertebrates occurred in significantly greater densities on maple and elm than on sweetgum and oak. Amounts of FPOM remaining in bags after 28 d were significantly smaller for maple and elm (P<.05), suggesting that shredders were eating the FPOM. Collectors occurred in similar densities in all natural FPOM bags. Only a few individuals of either functional feeding group colonized Styrofoam bags, suggesting that FPOM was being colonized for its nutritional value rather than as a refuge from predation.
3227239|Stomatopods, like many marine crustaceans, rely on their sense of smell to detect prey and to find mates (Ache 1982; Zimmer-Faust 1989; Atema & Voigt 1995). In lobsters, crabs, crayfishes, prawns, leptostracans, anaspidans, mysids, amphipods, tanaids, isopods, ostracodes, phyllopods, and cumaceans (Heimann 1984; Hallberg et al. 1992), this detection of odors from distant sources involves specialized chemosensory setae called aesthetascs locates on the antennules. The external structure of stomatopod sensilla appears to follow the typical crustacean aesthetasc pattern, but their internal structure has not been previously examined. In this study, we use serial reconstruction from transmission electron microscopy to show that the stomatopod sensilla are aesthetascs. For chemoreception to occur, chemical-containing fluid must be very close to the surface of the aesthetascs, such that odor molecules can diffuse to chemoreceptors on the olfactory receptor neurons inside the aesthetasc. Flicking of stomatopod antennules maximizes fluid penetration near the parts of the sensilla where the cuticle is thinnest, and where the outer dendritic segments are most fully branched with the greatest surface area. Thus, the external and the internal structure of the stomatopod aesthetasc are "matched" to maximize the efficiency of odor arrival at the surface of the olfactory receptor neurons.
3227114|Both dorsal body tissue extracts and dorsal body-conditioned medium stimulated in vitro polysaccharide synthesis in albumen gland explants in Helisoma duryi. This activity is heat- and protease-resistant. Dorsal body tissue extracts and dorsal body-conditioned medium were passed through solid-phase extraction cartridges, then eluted with increasing concentrations of methanol (20%, 70%, and 100%) and the various eluates tested for their biological activity. An active factor was found in the 100% methanol wash from both dorsal body tissue extracts and the conditioned medium. In addition, another bioactive factor in the conditioned medium eluted with 70% methanol. The endocrine dorsal bodies in the freshwater snail H. duryi were maintained in vitro, and following incubation, the culture medium was collected and tested for the presence of ecdysteroids. Radioimmunoassay of the culture medium demonstrated the presence of ecdysteroid-like immunoreactivity, suggesting the dorsal bodies are capable of secreting ecdysteroids in vitro. Identification of released ecdysteroids by HPLC/RIA revealed a number of immunoreactive fractions, which were tested for bioactivity. To test for possible physiological functions of ecdysteroids in Helisoma duryi, 20-hydroxyecdysone (a potent ecdysteroid in arthropods) was injected into non-egg laying (virgin) snails. Injections of ecdysteroid induced low egg-laying activity and the maturation of oocytes in the ovotestis. Incubation of albumen glands with ecdysteroid stimulated polysaccharide synthesis. The results are discussed in relation to the possible function(s) of ecdysteroids in pulmonate snails.
3227248| The reproduction of a recently described spionid polychaete, Polydora robi, is examined from the Philippines. Adults inhabit a burrow in the apex of gastropod shells occupied by hermit crabs. Females were found to deposit broods of 18-94 egg capsules in the summer (June-August) and winter months (January-March) sampled. Paired or single egg capsules are attached by stalks to the inside wall of the burrow and contain 40-106 eggs which average 97 m in diameter. The total number of eggs per brood ranges from 941-8761 eggs and is positively correlated with the total number of segments and length of female worms. Adults of P. robi are polytelic, producing 9 successive broods over a 3-month period; a mean of 6.7 d was exhibited between broods in the laboratory. Females utilize sperm stored in the seminal receptacles during successive spawnings. Development occurs within egg capsules until the 3segment stage, at which time the planktotrophic larvae are released. Juveniles of ~20 segments are competent to settle on gastropod shells inhabited by hermit crabs. Members of P. robi are relatively fecund, semicontinuous breeders; the life-cycle in this species is similar to the only other known obligate polydorid commensal of hermit crabs. 
3701509| The present experiments are part of a larger study designed to investigate the influence of husbandry parameters on the life history of the ramshorn snail, Marisa cornuarietis, in order to identify suitable husbandry conditions for maintaining multi-generation populations in the laboratory for use in ecotoxicological testing. In this paper we focus on the effects of a combination of food types and feeding frequencies (i.e., the frequency with which the snails were offered food) on juvenile growth and survival at different temperatures. Offspring produced in the laboratory by wild specimens of M. cornuarietis, from Puerto Rico, were used to test the effects of three types of food (lettuce, alginate with fish food, alginate with snail mix) fed at three frequencies (given ad libitum on 4/4, 2/4, or 1/4 d) on juvenile survival and growth. The 4-d feeding regimens were repeated four times, giving a total of 16 d for the experiments. The experiments were conducted at two temperatures (22 and 25C) under a 12 h light: 12 h dark photoperiod. Juvenile growth rates increased with increasing feeding frequency for all food types. The most rapid growth rates occurred in the high-frequency lettuce treatments and the slowest growth rates in the low-frequency lettuce and alginate with snail mix treatments. Juvenile snails grew faster at 25 than at 22C, and mortality was about twice as high at the lower temperature. Growth rates were used to provide a rough estimate of time to maturity, which was determined to take about twice as long at 22 than at 25C. The results showed that lettuce is the best food if supplied in abundance, but effects on growth are very dependent on feeding frequency and temperature. We conclude that 25C is a more appropriate temperature for maintaining populations than 22C, that lettuce provides a suitable food source, and that food should be supplied continuously for husbandry and toxicity testing of populations of M. cornuarietis. 
10.2307/3226918| Gemmules of the freshwater sponges Eunapius fragilis, Ephydatia muelleri, and Spongilla lacustris from southern New England differ in their resistance to exposure to extremely low temperatures. Eunapius fragilis appears to be most tolerant, with greater than 80% of the gemmules surviving exposure to -70 C for one hour. Ephydatia muelleri is slightly less tolerant, and Spongilla lacustris is the least tolerant with no gemmules surviving exposure to temperatures lower than -10 C. Gemmules of both Eunapius fragilis and Ephydatia muelleri lose cold tolerance with storage at 3 to 5 C for more than a few months, most probably due to the loss of cryoprotectants such as sorbitol. 
25623066|In many coastal environments, variation in salinity and organismal responses to that variation are important determinants of the distribution and abundance of species. This study examined the effects of acute salinity changes on sea stars (Pisaster ochraceus) collected from a high-salinity site (Bamfield, BC) and a low-salinity site (Vancouver, BC). Sea stars from both sites were exposed to salinities ranging 15-30 psu. Following a 24-h exposure, the osmolality, sodium concentrations, and chloride concentrations in the perivisceral fluid all varied directly with salinity and were very close to the treatment salinities in both the Bamfield and Vancouver sea stars. The righting response (measured as an activity coefficient) was salinity dependent, with the lowest activity levels at a salinity of 15 psu. Activity coefficients did not vary between the two source populations. Feeding rates on mussels were strongly salinity dependent, but the salinity pattern was population specific. Bamfield sea stars fed the most at 30 psu, whereas Vancouver sea stars fed the most at 20 psu. High post-experimental mortalities were observed in Bamfield sea stars that had been exposed to a salinity of 15 psu; no such mortality was observed in Vancouver animals. This study provides evidence that the sea stars from the lower salinity environment had been able to acclimatize or adapt to low-salinity conditions. However, the results also suggest that there are limits to this tolerance, and that future changes in salinity may have important consequences for marine communities via alteration of keystone predation.
3227072|The removal of rare or endangered individuals from wild populations for evaluation of genetic composition may have deleterious consequences to these populations. As a viable alternative, we recommend limb removal as a means to obtain tissue for genetic analysis of rare amphipods. The effect of limb amputation on the survival of amphipods has not been previously studied. Our experiments showed that survival of Gammarus troglophilus, a common amphipod of Midwest caves and springs, was similar (p=.74) between control (unmanipulated) and experimental (amputation of 1 or 2 of the walking legs, pereopods 5 through 7) groups of amphipods. After 42 d, 25 of 26 amphipods in the experimental group had regenerated limbs that were half the size of the original appendage. Post-amputation survival could allow sampling of tissue for genetic analyses without sacrificing individuals, an important asset when working with species that are endangered or for which population sizes are very small.
3227173|The ultrastructure of paraspermatogenesis is examined in the littorinid subfamily Littorininae, with special emphasis on Littoraria (Palustorina) articulata (Philippi 1846). In particular the study focuses on the fate of the nucleus and origin of the rod bodies during parasperm development. Parasperm of the Littorininae are rounded or oblong cells, which undergo an abortive meiosis and eliminate part of the nucleus but often retain a nuclear remnant. The cytoplasm is filled with numerous spherical vesicles in all Littorininae, but in Littoraria (and in certain species of Nodilittorina, Tectarius and Cenchritis) dense 'rod-bodies' also occur. Littoraria (Palustorina) are unique in possessing a flagellum-like structure termed the 'pseudotrich', which lacks an axoneme but contains microtubules during its development. Paraspermatogonia differ from euspermatogonia in the structure of the nucleus and in the extensive rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) and swollen cytoplasm. Two types of secretions develop in Littoraria: (1) numerous, spherical granules (composed of putative glycoprotein, also seen in other Littorininae) and (2) rhomboid granules (composition uncertain but reacting positively to RNA stains; these granules arising within RER cisternae close to the nucleus). As the rhomboid granules fuse to form the larger, rod-bodies (polygonal in cross section), the RER membrane enclosing the rod-bodies becomes confluent with the outer nuclear membrane, thereby forming a common compartment. Results of this study clearly show that the rod-bodies are secretions of the RER cisternae and not, as claimed in some light microscopic accounts, the product of fusion of eusperm nuclei which have entered the parasperm cytoplasm (either by active eusperm penetration or by phagocytosis). Developmental characteristics of littorinid parasperm show differences between species and may, in some cases, provide characters diagnostic of subgenera.
3227098|Two fluorescent calcium indicators, Calcium Green AM (CG) and Fura Red AM (FR), were used in conjunction with confocal microscopy to monitor hemocyte calcium dynamics following exposure to digenetic trematode larvae or relevant bioactive compounds. Changes in intracellular calcium levels, as measured by fluctuations in the CG/FR ratio, were correlated with hemocyte morphological changes. Hemocytes exposed to culture medium remained spread and had few calcium transients. However, following exposure to sporocysts, sporocyst secretory-excretory products, or small rediae of Echinostoma paraensei in culture medium, significantly more hemocytes both rounded up and exhibited calcium transients, though some hemocytes showed one response or the other but not both. Hemocytes did not respond significantly to large rediae, to sporocysts of another digenean (Schistosoma mansoni), or to bacterial lipopolysaccharides. Exposure to either zymosan particles or mannose BSA provoked responses similar to those seen with sporocysts of E. paraensei. Caffeine caused rounding but no calcium transients, and phorbol myristate acetate provoked calcium transients but no rounding. The results show that sporocysts and small rediae of E. paraensei have pronounced effects on hemocyte rounding and calcium dynamics, and that these two events can occur independently of one another. This suggests that parasites may influence hemocytes in at least two separate ways.
10.2307/3226915|The free swimming larvae of many marine invertebrates actively respond to light. Light cues can be used to regulate position in the water column and to facilitate encountering sites suitable for metamorphosis. We examined the ontogeny of larval phototaxis and the ontogeny of metamorphic competency in larvae from three congeneric species of bryozoans. Larvae of Bugula neritina are positively phototactic on emergence from the brood chamber, whereas larvae of B. simplex and B. stolonifera appear initially photoneutral when populations of larvae are examined. Larvae of all three species become photonegative with time. Temporally coincident with this change to negative phototaxis is an increase in the competency of larvae to initiate metamorphosis. This observation suggests that these events are either physiologically linked or co-occurring, but independent developmental processes. We tested these hypotheses by artificially changing the sign of phototaxis from positive to negative using 10
3227126|Among malacostracan crustaceans, intracerebral ocelli were first discovered in Isopoda, but they have been more recently reported from a crayfish (Cherax destructor) and a sandhopper (Talitrus saltator). This electron microscopic study increases the number of crayfish taxa in which intracerebral ocelli are now known to occur by two: Astacidae and Cambaridae. These photoreceptors are always integrated into the anteromedio-dorsal part of the brain and are not visible externally. Each ocellus is made up of 4-5 photoreceptor cells and is characterized by the presence of a fused rhabdom. The occurrence of different kinds of lysosomes in the cytoplasm is indicative of metabolic activity and perhaps membrane turnover. One typical feature of crayfish ocelli is their extraordinary variability in number. This trait is exemplified by individuals of Pacifastacus leniusculus, where as many as 14 ocelli were identified in a single brain. The arrangement of the ocelli is often not symmetrical with regard to the brain's midline and the ocelli always lack dioptric structures. Thus, it is difficult to see how they are involved in image formation. However, further research is needed to determine the precise role of these "hidden" receptors.
23016665|Clionaids are excavating sponges, which live in and grow into calcareous substrates. We studied the sexual reproductive cycles of two clionaid sponges coexisting in a Mediterranean coastal basin (Porto Cesareo, Italy), Cliona viridis and Cliona celata, by analyzing monthly tissue samples of ten specimens of each species collected over a 2-year period. From May to June of the second study year, supplementary samples were taken weekly. Up to 90% of the specimens of C. viridis and 70% of those of C. celata sampled were reproductive during the study. In both species, but particularly in C. viridis, reproductive investment, measured as the percentage of sponge tissue occupied by gametes, was high. Oocytes were present almost year-round in both species, except for a 14-month period after zygote release. In contrast, spermatogenesis occurred most frequently in May in both species, when (May June) oocytes reached their greatest diameters. Cliona viridis and C. celata are hermaphrodites, with oocytes and spermatic cysts coexisting in 10% of the studied individuals in the first year of the study, and in 30% during the second. No developing embryos or larvae were incubated in the sponge tissues, and fertilization was not observed. Temperature may play a role in triggering some important phases of the reproduction of these Cliona, such as oocyte maturation and spermatogenesis, which occurred when water temperature increased from 17C to 25C between May and June.
3701475|The spine morphology of all established species of Diadema and Echinothrix, including 2 color morphs of E. calamaris, were examined externally and internally via transverse sectioning to identify diagnostic species features and to assess the morphological relationship between species. Forty-nine different morphological characters were measured and analysed using ordination by multi-dimensional scaling (MDS) and cluster analysis. Specimens of Diadema paucispinum and D. setosum had very distinct spine structures. In D. paucispinum, the spines were more robust than those of other species of Diadema. This was evident in the spine's internal structure, with large, closely packed solid wedges, a small axial cavity, and rings of trabeculae throughout the spine's length. The spines in D. setosum were distinctive because of their length in relation to test size and the reduced flaring of their verticillations. The spines of other members of this genus were very similar to each other. Without careful sectioning, the spines from specimens of D. antillarum, D. ascensionis, D. mexicanum and D. savignyi were difficult to differentiate. The internal structures of spines for each species did, however, possess a combination of features that differentiated the species. Such features included the shape, orientation, and number of solid wedges, the presence or absence of spokes and rings of trabeculae between the solid wedges, and the presence or absence of tissue within the axial cavity. Individuals of Diadema palmeri also had spines morphologically similar to other species, however, the red pigmentation of these spines (in life and when preserved) made them easily distinguishable. The spine structures of the 2 species of Echinothrix were starkly different, while the white and brown color morphs of E. calamaris had morphologically distinctive ambulacral and interambulacral spines. The blunt, open-tipped interambulacral spines, with reticular tissue present in the axial cavity of the white color morph, were easily distinguished from the pointed, closed-tipped spines, with a hollow axial cavity found in the brown color morph. Such differences indicate that the brown color morph is either a subspecies or a separate species. Taken together the data show that each species has significant morphological differences in the structure of the spines. It is evident from our data that spine morphology is a useful tool to differentiate these commonly confused species.
40206245|In marine soft-sediment habitats, tissue loss by infuanal invertebrates can provide significant energetic input to higher trophic levels, have substantial impacts on individual behavior, growth, and fecundity, and resulting changes in bioturbation rates can secondarily affect community dynamics. The degree to which a community is affected by such sublethal predation depends in part on whether injured individuals can regenerate and on the speed at which they do so. Previously, we demonstrated differences in the rate of anterior segment and palp regeneration by the spionid polychaetes Pygospio elegans and Dipolydora quadrilobata. The current study examined the morphology of the anterior segment and palp regeneration in these species using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and indirect immunohistochemistry with confocal laser scanning microscopy at 3, 6, 9, and 12 d post-ablation. Antibodies for acetylated oc-tubulin and the neural tetrapeptide FMRFamide were used to label the regenerating nervous system. SEM revealed that the morphology of anterior tissue regeneration was similar for both species, but the ciliated food groove tended to form sooner on palps in P. elegans than on those of D. quadrilobata. In both species, palp regeneration and ciliated food groove formation were faster when only palps were removed. A shortened ciliated food groove is likely to reduce particle contact and transport efficiency in suspension and deposit feeding. Regenerating palp nerves were initially visible at 3 d following ablation of palps only, but at 6d following ablation of five anterior segments. Following ablation of anterior segments, the regenerating nervous system was largely complete by 9d, nuchal organs were innervated by 6d, and processes of palp sensory cells were visible at 12d. Contact chemoreception by sensory cells on the palps may be diminished during the early stages of regeneration, but chemoreception of waterborne cues via the nuchal organ should not.
10.2307/3226940|Larvae of many echinoderms and other benthic marine invertebrates depend on ciliary suspension feeding for growth and development, but some larvae may be superior feeding devices (with consequences for variation in growth, size, and fitness). I measured differences in feeding performance among larvae of 9 echinoderm species from 4 taxonomic classes (Asteroidea, Ophiuroidea, Holothuroidea, Echinoidea). Maximum clearance rates (relative to size of the feeding structure) of some larvae were much higher than the rates of others, indicating substantial variation in feeding capabilities among larvae of similar size. In order to interpret these differences in feeding capability, I also give some preliminary data on larval form, development, and organic content. Although incomplete in several respects, these data do not indicate a simple relation between larval feeding and growth. This surprising result indicates that functional morphology is not always the most appropriate perspective from which to examine variation in growth and development of planktonic larvae.
23016259|Here we report on the first quantitative survey of morphological variation in the sea urchin Heliocidaris erythrogramma within Western Australia and distinguish between two subspecies found to co-occur in this region. We surveyed urchins at multiple spatial scales along the Western Australian coastline to assess variation in dermis and spine color and, using landmark-based geometric morphometrics, spine morphology. Both color and morphology proved to be useful for separating subspecies within Western Australia. There were four major color morphs: red dermis/violet spines (56%), red/violet-green (23%), red/ green (7%), and white/green (10%). Members of the first two color morphs had bulbous spines with wide, flattened tips, a morphology that is unique to Western Australia and characteristic of H. e. armigera, and members of the latter two consistently exhibited the narrow, pointed spines typical of specimens of H. e. erythrogramma, which has a broader distribution. In Western Australia, H. e. armigera was relatively abundant both within and among sites, but H. e. erythrogramma was found only in a few localized patches. Shifts in the relative abundance of these two subspecies occurred at fine spatial scales (< 5 km), although environmental correlates of these transitions were unclear. Contrary to expectations, neither dermis color nor spine morphology varied with relative wave exposure: individuals with a red dermis or thickened spine morphology occurred at most sites regardless of exposure, and while white dermis and thinner spines only occurred at high-exposure sites, these features were not common across the majority of exposed sites. Both color morph frequencies and spine morphology remained stable within sites over the 3-year duration of this study. While the ecological significance of this morphological variation remains unclear, the consistency of the association between color and spine morphology, occurring across fine spatial scales, suggests that strong environmental or genetic factors are involved in maintaining morphological differentiation between these two subspecies.
4621904|The toxic effect of carbamate insecticide carbaryl on Spodoptera exigua (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) larvae was examined. Insects appeared to be highly sensitive to it; numerous malfunctions and malformations were observed. The first ultrastructural alterations, including biological membrane swelling, nuclear condensation, and disintegration, and abnormalities around the mitochondria were observed even before massive mortality was noted. Scanning electron microscopy revealed changes in cuticle. Carbaryl depleted the wet weight of fat body mass and changed (in most of the cases elevated) the activity of antioxidant enzymes. The majority of these malformations are rather non-specific and are common among animals exposed to xenobiotics. However, they all suggest serious disruptions in metabolism, in addition to indicating that reactive oxygen species may play an important role in the toxic effect of carbaryl.
10.2307/3227040|In the many species in which breeding between close kin yields deleterious effects (inbreeding depression), outbreeding is promoted by various mechanisms, such as kin recognition and, in hermaphrodites, barriers to self-fertilization. When the cost of inbreeding is not too high, hermaphrodites will be selected to self. The sexually reproducing, simultaneous hermaphroditic flatworm Dugesia polychroa does not self-fertilize, suggesting that selfing is too costly in this species. To ascertain whether kin recognition exists as a behavioral mechanism to avoid inbreeding in D. polychroa, experiments were designed using two genetically identical regenerates, or clonemates, from a single halved worm. The mating behavior of clonemates vs. unrelated worms was recorded, in pairs and in triads consisting of two clonemates and one unrelated worm. No clear differences in frequency or duration of copulations could be demonstrated between clonemates or unrelated worms, either in pairs or triads. Our results indicate that there is no kin recognition mechanism or selective mating for inbreeding avoidance in D. polychroa. We hypothesize that, in the field, dispersal in this species is sufficient to limit inbreeding.
3227175|Light and scanning electron microscopy were used to examine protoconch form in eight species of planktotrophic heterobranch larvae, including four nudibranch species with a coiled (type 1) protoconch, two nudibranch species with an inflated (type 2) protoconch, and two cephalaspid species with a coiled protoconch. The coiled protoconchs of the cephalaspids and nudibranchs have a similar form at hatching, and shell growth up to metamorphic competence is hyperstrophic. Shell added to coiled protoconchs during the larval stage overgrows all but the left wall of the initial protoconch that exists at hatching. The entire protoconch of cephalaspids, including overgrown areas, is retained through metamorphosis. However, during later larval development in nudibranchs with a coiled protoconch, overgrown shell is completely removed by dissolution. As a result, regardless of whether nudibranch larvae hatch with an inflated or coiled protoconch type, the protoconch is a large, hollow cup at metamorphic competence. The protoconch of nudibranchs is shed at metamorphosis and absence of a post-metamorphic shell is correlated with absence of visceral coiling in this gastropod group. Internal dissolution of the coiled protoconch in nudibranchs allows the left digestive gland to uncoil prior to metamorphic shell loss. Retention of overgrown protoconch whorls in cephalaspids allows the attachment plaque of the pedal muscle to migrate onto the parietal lip of the post-metamorphic shell. Release from this constraint in nudibranchs, in which the larval pedal muscles and the entire protoconch are lost at metamorphosis, may have permitted internal protoconch dissolution and precocious uncoiling of the visceral mass, as well as evolutionary emergence of the inflated larval shell type.
10.2307/3227055|The anatomy of the hadal, cocculinid limpet Macleaniella moskalevi is described. This species has a small, symmetrical, cap-shaped shell with a prominent internal transverse septum. As in other cocculinid genera, broad oral lappets and epipodial tentacles are present. Vestigial eyes are also present, but lack pigment and are modified into the basitentacular gland. The unique aortic vessel and associated hemal gland are present. Mantle cavity morphology is characteristic of cocculinid taxa; the cavity contains a pseudoplicatid gill, hypobranchial gland, and shallow brood pouch. Adults are simultaneous hermaphrodites, possessing a gonad with distinct egg and sperm producing regions; the common gonoduct is glandular. The single receptaculum seminis is connected to the anterior gonoduct via an enclosed duct. An enlarged right cephalic tentacle is inferred to function as a copulatory organ. The digestive gland occupies that part of the visceral mass confined above the septum and opens by way of two ducts into the distal esophagus. The anterior digestive tract is characterized by the presence of extremely well-developed esophageal pouches, a cuticularized sublingual pouch, and an unpaired jaw. A subradular sense organ and salivary glands are lacking. M. moskalevi is remarkably unique among previously described cocculinids in the anatomy of the reproductive tract and of the organs associated with the mantle cavity. In particular, the conformation of the nervous system in this species is unknown among cocculinids described thus far.
40663870|A new species in the cephalaspidean family Diaphanidae, Toledonia warenella n. sp., is described from New South Wales, Australia. Three-dimensional, computer-aided reconstructions of the anatomy, based on serial histological sections, show that T. warenella n. sp. has some features in common with other diaphanids, including lack of jaws, gizzard plates, or an operculum. A gill was not detected in the mantle cavity, which is dominated by large, triangular, opposed ciliary bands and a kidney with lobed edges. The buccal mass is large with thick, muscular walls, perhaps indicative of a suctorial feeding behavior. Comparison with other diaphanid genera was hindered by lack of detailed published anatomical data, but shell and radula morphology suggests a close relationship between the new species and the polar genera Toledonia and Bogasonia (members of Toledoniinae), and for this reason, it is provisionally included in Toledonia. The systematics of Diaphanidae are addressed in the light of the anatomical data presented here.
10.2307/3227021|Growth bands are evident in sections of the radial shields of Astrobrachion constrictum and on direct examination of dissected material. These bands result from the sequential addition of scales to the radial shields, a phenomenon not typical of ophiuroid radial shields. The rate of addition of these scales and the pattern of calcite deposition within them was studied using the skeletal growth marker calcein, and the validity of using the radial shield scales as age markers was examined. Individual brittle stars, injected intra-coelomically with calcein solution in the field at 6-month intervals, were collected and transverse fluorescent growth marks were found on radial shield scales. Measurement of the amount of stereom laid down between and after injections indicated the amount of growth in successive 6-month periods. Growth rate, as determined by measurement of the length of the radial shields, was faster during winter/spring, but the number of new radial shield scales increased during summer/autumn. Deposition of calcite within the scales also varied seasonally, greater amounts of large-pored stereom being deposited in winter. Growth bands were not laid down annually; as many as 11 bands appeared in a single year. Larger brittle stars did not appear to deposit new radial shield scales; 23 mm may be the maximum disc diameter for A. constrictum.
10.2307/3227018|Nuchal organs are known to be important sensory organs of many polychaete annelid species. This study describes the fine structure of the nuchal organs and associated glands of Parapionosyllis manca. In each nuchal organ, the ciliated epithelium of the nuchal cleft encloses an olfactory chamber through which sensory cilia and microvillus-like processes radiate. These sensory components originate from bulbs of sensory cells that are closely associated to form a sensory bundle. Each bundle of cells is encased in a palisade of support cells bearing motile cilia. Numerous secretory vesicles occur in the cytoplasm of the support cells and beneath the modified cuticle of the nuchal organ. The support cells of the olfactory region extend posteriorly to form the nuchal lobes, or glands. The cells are elongate and taper to a thin neck just before leaving the sensory area of the nuchal organ. There are essentially no nuclei in the sensory region as these and most of the other cellular organelles are concentrated in the lobes that extend into the body cavity but are contained by the epidermal basement matrix. The nuchal organ is innervated by the nuchal nerve, which extends posteriorly from the hind portion of the brain.
3227179|Attachment and gas exchange are design problems for the spheroidal egg masses that annelids and molluscs tether in sediments. At an intertidal site in Bodega Harbor, a high proportion of masses of arenicolid worms became detached, but they were not stranded higher than attached masses, and the embryos developed to advanced stages. The large masses, weighing 100-200 g, challenge predictions on limiting size for oxygen supply by diffusion. The estimated concentrations of embryos and thickness of the embryo layer exceed the limits predicted by a simple model for oxygen supply by diffusion from the surrounding water, but several features may enhance oxygen supply to embryos. (1) There is an internal cavity. Distal tears in the gel layer admit pulses of water into the center, thus adding an inner surface for gas exchange. (2) The motile embryos aggregate near the outer and sometimes inner surfaces of the gel layer. Embryos migrate in the gel toward regions of greater oxygen concentration. (3) Pennate diatoms colonize the masses, coating the surfaces and penetrating into the gelatinous matrix. Photosynthesis can exceed respiration when a mass is in the light. The pH in gel changes diurnally from a low of ~7 to as much as 9.5, indicating an excess of respiration over photosynthesis at night and at least sometimes an excess of photosynthesis over respiration by day.
10.2307/3227007|A new genus and species of South African sabellid polychaete, Terebrasabella heterouncinata, is described. The species lives in burrows in living gastropod shells and was first discovered in 1993 in red abalone aquaculture facilities in southern California. Shell abnormalities in cultured abalones, caused by heavy sabellid infestations, raised concerns about its potential impact on native gastropods. The species has eight thoracic and three abdominal setigers, and is distinguished by the following features: 1) two pairs of radioles; 2) uncini in thoracic setigers 2-6 acicular, with main fang surmounted by small teeth, companion setae present: 3) uncini in thoracic setigers 7-8 avicular, with no main fang and teeth in a rasp-like (serpuliform) arrangement; 4) abdominal uncini acicular with main fang surmounted by small teeth. Members of T. heterouncinata are simultaneous hermaphrodites, with sperm produced in setiger 8 and oocytes in setigers 9-10. Sperm have an elongate nucleus and short midpiece. Young are brooded in the adult burrow to a late larval stage with about 6 setigers, but are non-feeding, lacking a branchial crown. Released larvae crawl over the surface of the mollusc host shell and settle under the shell lip, in contact with the mantle tissue. Larvae are subsequently covered by shell from the host, forming the burrow. Crown formation and feeding commence after burrow formation. Cladistic analyses support the hypothesis that Terebrasabella is most closely related to Amphiglena, as part of the apomorphic Sabellinae clade, (Laonome (Terebrasabella, Amphiglena)). The early release of late-stage, non-feeding larvae, which enables the association of T. heterouncinata with gastropods, appears to have been independently derived in this species as well as several Amphiglena species.
3227078|A cladistic analysis of 87 morphological and life history characters of medusozoan cnidarians, rooted with Anthozoa, results in the phylogenetic hypothesis (Anthozoa (Hydrozoa (Scyphozoa (Staurozoa, Cubozoa)))). Staurozoa is a new class of Cnidaria consisting of Stauromedusae and the fossil group Conulatae. Scyphozoa is redefined as including those medusozoans characterized by strobilation and ephyrae (Coronatae, Semaeostomeae, and Rhizostomeae). Within Hydrozoa, Limnomedusae is identified as either the earliest diverging hydrozoan lineage or as the basal group of either Trachylina (Actinulida (Trachymedusae (Narcomedusae, Laingiomedusae))) or Hydroidolina (Leptothecata (Siphonophorae, Anthoathecata)). Cladistic results are highly congruent with recently published phylogenetic analyses based on 18S molecular characters. We propose a phylogenetic classification of Medusozoa that is consistent with phylogenetic hypotheses based on our cladistic results, as well as those derived from 18S analyses. Optimization of the characters presented in this analysis are used to discuss evolutionary scenarios. The ancestral cnidarian probably had a sessile biradial polyp as an adult form. The medusa is inferred to be a synapomorphy of Medusozoa. However, the ancestral process (metamorphosis of the apical region of the polyp or lateral budding involving an entocodon) could not be inferred unequivocally. Similarly, character states for sense organs and nervous systems could not be inferred for the ancestral medusoid of Medusozoa.
10.2307/3226852|Ultrastructure of the spermatophore and spermatozoon of the king crab Lithodes maja is described and illustrated. The spermatophore is a pedunculate structure of which the major components are the sperm-filled ampulla, stalk, pedestal, and a smaller accessory ampulla at the base of the main ampulla. Each spermatozoon features a subspherical, concentrically zoned acrosomal vesicle, capped by a centrally perforate operculum and posteriorly embedded in the cytoplasm, and a large globular nucleus. Three microtubular arms emerge from the cytoplasm below the acrosomal vesicle. The spermatophores and spermatozoa share many features with those of their nearest postulated relatives-members of the Paguridae (the genus Pagurus in particular). Spermatophore characters that link L. maja with pagurids are the presence of the accessory ampulla (synapomorphy, also with the parapagurids) and the homogeneous granular nature of the spermatophore wall. Sperm characters include the simple concentric zonation of the acrosomal vesicle, the shape and differentiation of the operculum (synapomorphic with Paguridae), the electron-dense plume in the base of the acrosomal chamber (synapomorphy with Pagurus), and absence of microvillar projections in this chamber. Several features in which L. maja differs from species in the genus Pagurus include the central perforation in the operculum, the absence of reticulated acrosome zones, and indications of an irregular flange in some planes of the acrosomal vesicle (possible autapomorphy).
3227262|Populations of Marenzelleria viridis in the Chester River (Kent County, Maryland) experience temperatures ranging from over 30 C in summer to near freezing in winter. Interestingly, M. viridis swims actively in winter. This observation led us to examine the relationship between locomotor capacity and temperature in individuals of M. viridis. Juvenile specimens were collected in February ("cold animals") and June ("warm animals"). Video analysis revealed that swimming is achieved by flexing the body in cyclic, helical waves. Wave frequencies were measured as an index of locomotor capacity at 5 C, 15 C, and 25 C. The mean wave frequencies of cold animals were 5.4 Hz at 5 C and 7.1 Hz at 15 C (Q<sub>10</sub> = 1.3); the mean wave frequencies of warm animals were 6.1 Hz at 15 C and 7.8 Hz at 25 C (Q<sub>10</sub> = 1.3). The effects of changes in water viscosity on wave frequency between 5-25 C were not significant. These results demonstrate that the temperature sensitivity of locomotor capacity in juvenile M. viridis is quite low. We conclude that low temperature sensitivity enables M. viridis to be active throughout the year.
4621899|Individual marking has long been used in many fields of biology. However, capture-mark-recapture (CMR) studies are not evenly distributed among taxonomic groups, with most studies focusing on vertebrates. For example, a limited number of studies have been conducted in gastropods, in sharp contrast to their important role as biological models or exploited natural resources. The lack of standard, validated marking techniques certainly contributes to the limited use of CMR. In this article, we evaluate two fundamental requirements for a marking technique to be suitable, i.e., tag loss (two experi) and impact on life-history traits (survival, growth, and fecundity, in three experiments). Five marking techniques for hard-shelled gastropods were tested in the freshwater snail Physa acuta (Pulmonata). The tag-loss rate per month was lower for glued plastic marks (0.01) than for paint marks (0.03-0.07), and the tag-loss rate varied among colors (gouache paint). Under laboratory conditions, the life-history traits were not significantly affected by marking. We thus recommend using glued plastic marks for long-term studies, and paint marks for mass marking, with double marking to account for tag-loss rate. Based on an extensive literature survey, we also review current CMR practices in gastropod studies and suggest general improvements that would prove useful in both this group and invertebrates in general.
4621891|Resource allocation between somatic and reproductive structures has important fitness consequences for individuals, and optimal trade-offs are expected to depend not only on mating system differences among species but also on levels of resource stress within species. We tested the prediction that polyandry (associated with increased sperm competition) will increase male reproductive allocation in bioluminescent fireflies in Photinus spp. by comparing the relative mass of testes, seminal vesicles, and reproductive accessory glands among a monandrous and several polyandrous species. In addition, we examined a single population of a polyandrous species, Photinus greeni, to see how reproductive allocation might shift between years in response to different levels of larval resource stress. As predicted, males of P. collustrans, a monandrous species, showed a fivefold lower allocation to sperm production and a 100-fold lower allocation to reproductive accessory glands compared with males from polyandrous species. We also found evidence within P. greeni of a trade-off between allocation either to reproduc or to somatic tissue; following larval resource stress, males eclosed at significantly shorter body lengths, yet showed a 35% increase in their reproductive allocation. These results demonstrate that mating systems strongly influence male allocation to reproductive accessory glands as well as to sperm production. Furthermore, these results suggest that under larval resource stress males of Photinus spp. increase their allocation to reproduction at the expense of somatic tissue, thus maximizing their ability to produce nuptial gifts required for reproductive success.
10.2307/3226896|The purpose of this investigation was to estimate inbreeding depression and self-fertilization depression from a comparison of self-fertilizing and outcrossing pulmonate snails, Physa heterostropha. We monitored lifetime survival and fecundity in 26 paired snails from three isofemale lines, using recessive alleles at two complementing albino loci to verify out-crossing. While demonstrably holding allosperm reserves, 10 of these individuals bore self-fertilized progeny at frequencies ranging from 1% to 35%. We designated these 10 individuals "mixed maters," leaving 16 individuals in our sample as more strictly outcrossers. Mixed maters and outcrossers produced comparable numbers of viable embryos per parent, and their embryos displayed negligible differences in survival to 7-14 days post-hatch. Outcrossing and mixed groups displayed nearly identical values for net reproductive rate (808 and 848 offspring/ parent, respectively) and intrinsic rate of natural increase (2.86 and 2.82 per four weeks). Thus in the benign environment of artificial culture, the low levels of self-fertilization occasionally displayed by the previously inseminated snails seem adaptively neutral. The fitness of both the outcrossers and mixed maters greatly exceeded that of 15 individuals isolated as juveniles and hence forced to self-fertilize entirely (R=286, r=1.57). There were no significant differences among selfers, outcrossers, and mixed-maters with respect to parental survival. But selfing parents produced fewer eggs over their lifetimes, higher proportions of apparently infertile eggs, and embryos of much-reduced survival. The estimated inbreeding depression of 0.353, together with an overall self-fertilization depression of 0.646, suggests strong selective pressure against self-fertilization, and evolution toward at least partial outcrossing.
40981232|We compared responses of adults and larvae of the brooding corals Pocillopora damicornis and Seriatopora hystrix to 12-h exposures to constant temperature treatments (21C, 28C, or 30C) and a treatment in which temperature fluctuated from 28 to 21C, simulating daily temperature variation generated by tidally driven upwelling in their natural habitat (Nanwan Bay, southern Taiwan). In all treatments, the maximum dark-adapted quantum yield of photosystem II (F V /F M ) of the larvae was ~49% lower than that of adult corals; F V /F M in the larvae also differed among temperature treatments, with the highest values in the fluctuating treatment. These results show that the larvae of at least P. damicornis are more sensitive to temperature than adults, and suggest that larvae are physiologically well suited to fluctuating temperature regimes. To assess whether the timing of larval release affected their performance, larvae of P. damicornis were compared among release days within a single reproductive event. Groups of larvae released on nine consecutive days differed significantly in size, Symbiodinium content, and F V /F M . This demonstration of functional differences among coral larvae that are released on different dates within a single reproductive event creates the potential for advantages to accrue from the coincidence of larval phenotypes with temporally varying conditions. Adult colonies may experience selective advantages by producing broods of functionally variable larvae, in order to match extreme phenotypes to unusual environmental conditions.
10.2307/3226943|The phylogenetic placement of the phylum Tardigrada among the Metazoa is somewhat uncertain. In analyses based on morphological characters, tardigrades are usually associated with arthropods but tardigrades have also been associated with a number of aschelminth phyla. We have sequenced the nearly complete 18S rRNA gene from a eutardigrade. Neighbor-Joining and Maximum-Parsimony analyses place tardigrades in a clade that includes arthropods and priapulids, but not other aschelminths.
10.2307/3227008|In 1993 an unusual sabellid polychaete was brought to our attention. It grossly deformed the shells of cultured abalones in some of the California abalone mariculture facilities. This worm is not native to California and was subsequently found in rocky intertidal and subtidal habitats in southern Africa, where it had not previously been recognized. The worm is hermaphroditic and has benthic larvae that are competent to settle within 12 h and soon secrete a mucous sheath. Development of the tentacular crown occurs within a week and generation time can be short, about one month. The worm has a unique association with host gastropods. Unlike all other known shell-fouling organisms, the sabellid routinely settles inside the aperture at the growing edge of the shell. The host responds by secreting a layer of nacre over the mucous sheath to form a tube enclosing the worm, whose crown of tentacles extends through the opening of the tube to the outer surface of the shell. Heavy infestations cause the cessation of linear growth of the host as prismatic shell deposition cannot be resumed after repeated settlement of larvae. The sabellid is not very host specific; many other California native gastropods are readily infested. Bivalves do not appear to be susceptible. Efforts to find a native California predator of the adult worms were not successful. The sabellid has caused great economic damage to some facilities commercially culturing abalones. An established population of this worm has been detected in California, and further risk of establishment and spread of this worm is great. Its unique biology suggests that it may be a useful experimental probe for studies of molluscan shell deposition and may also serve to reveal how molluscs defend themselves against organisms attempting to settle in and foul their apertures.
40206226|The syllid polychaete Odontosyllis phosphorea produces brilliant displays of green bioluminescence during mating swarms. We studied freshly collected individuals of O. phosphorea in the laboratory to understand the characteristics of its luminescent system. Light emission appeared as an intense glow after stimulation with potassium chloride, and was associated with secreted mucus. The mucus was viscous, blue in color, and exhibited a longlasting glow that was greatly intensified by addition of peroxidase or ammonium persulfate. The emission spectrum of mucus-associated bioluminescence was unimodal, with a maximum emission in the green spectrum between 494 and 504 nm. The fluorescence emission spectrum was similar, but the fluorescence intensity was low unless it originated from mucus that had already produced light, suggesting that the oxidized product of the light production is the source of fluorescence. Individuals as small as 0.5-1.0 nm produced bioluminescence that was mainly internal and not secreted as mucus. The early occurrence of bioluminescence in the life cycle of members of O. phosphorea suggests that bioluminescence may be used for purposes other than attracting mates. The luminous system was functional at temperatures as low as 2OC and was degraded above 4OC. Mixing hot and cold extracts of the mucus did not result in reconstituting original levels of light emission. Additionally, mucus samples exposed to oxygen depletion by bubbling with argon or nitrogen were still able to produce intense bioluminescence. These results suggest that bioluminescence from the mucus may involve a photoprotein rather than a luciferin-luciferase reaction.
3227070|Ultrastructural characteristics of the epidermis of 5 deep-sea vestimentiferan tube worms and an orbiniid worm were similar to those described from other organisms inhabiting sulfidic environments. The integument was composed of a simple or pseudostratified layer of columnar or cuboidal cells, covered by a cuticle of varying thickness, and rested on an extracellular matrix. Unusual mitochondrial morphology was observed in the peripheral region of the epidermis, characterized by an electron-dense matrix and granules. The abnormal size, shape, and reduced array of cristae in these mitochondria may have resulted from environmental stress. Mitochondria in the inner epidermal layers, where they are more protected from sulfide exposure, displayed normal morphology. The seep vestimentiferans (Seepiophila jonesi and Lamellibrachia cf. luymesi) exhibited numerous electron-dense organelles, similar in morphology to cytolysosomes and previously described as sulfide oxidizing bodies, while in the 3 vent vestimentiferans (Riftia pachyptila, Tevnia jerichonana, and Oasisia alvinae) and the seep orbiniid Methanoaricia dendrobranchiata, fewer of these organelles were observed. Energy dispersive x-ray microanalysis of these electron-dense organelles indicated the presence of sulfur, iron, zinc, and copper, as well as lesser amounts of other elements. We propose that these epidermal cytolysosomes are morphologically similar to previously described sulfide oxidizing bodies that have been hypothesized to play a role in maintaining aerobically poised animal metabolism in sulfide-enriched habitats.
40206203|The timing and spatial distribution of cells containing FMRFamide-related molecules in the embryogenesis of the polychaete Ophryotrocha labronica were studied immunocytochemically. FMRFamide-like molecules emerge early during embryonic development. They are found at the one-cell stage, are asymmetrically distributed in the first phases of cleavage, associated with gastrular movements, and label the central nervous system morphogenesis. Moreover, during embryogenesis, the pattern of gut cells with the FMRFamide-like phenotype that is present in adults is already established. The early occurrence of FMRFamide-like molecules in O. labronica suggests that these molecules are involved as pre-nervous growth signals in the regulation of basic neuronal cell behaviors.
4621919|The development of the hermaphroditic gonad, the infusorigen, was studied in fixed specimens of 16 species belonging to four genera (Conocyema, Dicyema, Dicyemennea, and Pseudicyema) of dicyemid mesozoans. In addition, the literature on the cell lineages of infusorigens of eight other species was reviewed. After an agamete (axoblast) undergoes an unequal first division, excluding a small cell (the paranucleus), the resulting large cell divides to form the infusorigen. Five infursorigen cell lineage patterns can be identified: type I, both the first oogonium and the first spermatogonium are produced at the third division; type II, the first spermatogonium is produced at the second division and the first oogonium is produced at the third division; type III, the first spermatogonium is produced at the second division and the first oogonium is produced at the fourth division; type IV, the first oogonium is produced at the second division and the first spermatogonium is produced at the third division; and type V, the first oogonium is produced at the second division and the first spermatogonium is produced at the fourth division. Later development is similar in members of all genera. Mature infusorigens are similarly organized in all species examined. Sizes of agametes and infusorigen axial cells, the number of infusorigens, and the type of reproductive strategy were not correlated with infusorigen developmental patterns or cell lineage patterns.
25623049|Two small cemented, cryptic, species of Dianadema (Bivalvia: Anomalodesmata: Clavagellidae) have been recorded from shallow waters of the Indian Ocean. These are Dianadema minima and Dianadema mascarensis. A study of their shells and adventitious crypt morphologies, however, suggests that the two species are conspecific, the former name taking precedence. This re-description of D. minima suggests that on settlement, the larva develops a juvenile shell that continues to grow until a length of  9.0 mm is reached, when it secretes around itself a primary calcareous crypt and cements itself ventrally into a concavity in coral rubble. Subsequently, a crown of tubules is secreted from the dorsal surface of the exposed mantle and an adventitious siphonal tube is formed, which is characteristically oriented at  45 from the horizontal. In the absence of preserved internal tissues and pre-adult life history stages, there is no possibility of fully comprehending exactly how such a remarkable adventitious structure is produced. Dianadema minima does, however, provide us with another example of the remarkable adaptive radiation of the Clavagelloidea and, in particular, the pattern of convergent evolution expressed not just between D. minima (Clavagellidae) and Humphreyia strangei (Penicillidae), but also between the two families that have independently evolved "watering pot" shells and tubes.
10.2307/3226980|The operculum of Macropora levinseni is a thick shelf of calcium carbonate in contact with external cuticle only at the distal and lateral margins; it apparently was derived from cryptocyst. The lophophore is protruded by parietal muscles, which originate on lateral and frontal walls, unite into tendons, pass through pores in the frontally convex frontal wall (also derived from cryptocyst), and insert on the cuticular epitheca. About 60 of these opesiular pores are scattered evenly over the frontal wall. Affinities of M. levinseni are puzzling. The only other cheilostomes known to possess cryptocystal opercula belong to the genus Cellaria, with a derived budding pattern unlike that of Macropora, whose budding pattern is closely related to those of early fossil (Mesozoic) cheilostomes. Furthermore, the hydrostatic mechanisms differ between the two groups and intermediate morphologies seem unlikely. However, multiplication of opesiules occurs in various species of the family Microporidae, and there is evidence of cryptocystal opercula in that family. Available evidence cannot exclude the possibility that Cellaria species and M. levinseni evolved independently, but it seems likely that they share an ancestor among the Microporidae. Cryptocystal opercula in these apparently distantly related taxa suggest that cryptocystal opercula may occur elsewhere among cheilostomes. Discovery of these surprising morphologies suggests unsuspected diversity among seemingly conservative structures such as frontal walls, opercula, and hydrostatic mechanisms. It is likely that surprises remain; monothetic taxonomies relying on morphological homogeneity are correspondingly suspect. The resemblance of opesiular pores to occasional pseudopores on the operculum may clarify the derivation of pseudopores among cheilostomes.
3701492|The subfamily Ambleminae is the most diverse subfamily of fresh-water mussels (order Unionoida), a globally diverse and ecologically prominent group of bivalves. About 250 amblemine species occur in North America; however, this diversity is highly imperiled, with the majority of species at risk. Assessing and protecting this diversity has been hampered by the uncertain systematics of this group. This study sought to provide an improved phylogenetic framework for the Ambleminae. Currently, 37 North American genera are recognized in Ambleminae. Previous phylogenetic studies of amblemines highlighted the need for more extensive sampling due to the uncertainties arising from polyphyly of many currently recognized taxa. The present study incorporated all amblemine genera occurring in North America north of the Rio Grande, with multiple species of most genera, including the type species for all but seven genera. A total of 192 new DNA sequences were obtained for three mitochondrial gene regions: COI, 16S, and ND1. In combination with published data, this produced a data matrix incorporating 357 gene sequences for 143 operational taxonomic units, representing 107 currently recognized species. Inclusion of published data provides additional taxa and a summary of present molecular evidence on amblemine phylogeny, if at the cost of increasing the amount of missing data. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses suggest that most amblemine genera, as currently defined, are polyphyletic. At higher taxonomic levels, the tribes Quadrulini, Lampsilini, and Pleurobemini were supported; the extent of Amblemini and the relationships of some genera previously assigned to that tribe remain unclear. The eastern North American amblemines appear monophyletic. Gonidea and some Eurasian taxa place as probable sister taxa for the eastern North American Ambleminae. The results also highlight problematic taxa of particular interest for further work.
3227103|The enchytraeid Grania americana has a dorsal statocyst within the peristomium. It is connected to the anterior end of the cerebral ganglion. Transmission electron and light microscopy were used to study this region of the head. The statocyst is divided into four membrane-bound chambers; each contains an electron dense statolith surrounded by numerous sensory cilia, so that it is a multi-chambered or compound statocyst. Cilia within the statocyst possess a 9x2 + 0 microtubule arrangement, with one of the doublets in a central position. All cilia that were observed in the statocyst and in the cerebral ganglion had this arrangement of microtubules. This is the first description of a statocyst in the Clitellata. The statocyst of G. americana is compared to those described in polychaetes and may provide useful information for phylogenetic and taxonomic studies of the genus, of clitellates, and of annelids.
3227250|After 8-10 segments of posterior ventral nerve cord were ablated in Lumbriculus variegatus, touch-evoked locomotor responses were evident both in segments anterior and posterior to the ablation site. However, responses in these two regions were independent and uncoupled. During recovery, four outcomes were observed at the ablation site: (Group 1) recovery of normal functions with no growth of new segments; (Group 2) formation of a laterally protruding, multi-segmented, ectopic head; (Group 3) formation of a laterally protruding, amorphous, and multi-segmented outgrowth; and (Group 4) segmental autotomy. In Groups 1 and 2, touch-evoked swimming and body reversal were studied. In addition, sensory fields and conduction properties of giant nerve fibers were examined near the ablation site. In some Group 1 worms, clear-cut behavioral and electrical signs of recovery and reconnection were seen by 3 d after ablation. By 8 d, all worms had recovered and exhibited response patterns comparable to those of normal worms. In Group 2 worms, with an ectopic head, segments posterior to the ablation (together with those in the ectopic head), exhibited touch-evoked swimming and body reversal responses resembling those of a complete worm. Segments anterior to the ectopic head were independently capable of locomotor responses. Medial and lateral giant fiber sensory fields in worms with ectopic heads reflected a pattern expected for two worms. Thus, through apparent morphallactic reorganization, a medial giant fiber sensory field emerged which included the ectopic head and 10-15 adjacent posterior segments. In contrast, electrical recordings showed longitudinal through-conduction of giant fiber spikes, across the ablation site. Histological examination revealed that the giant nerve fibers in the ectopic head were complexly interconnected with those in the main body axis.
25623065|Gonad and pyloric caecum indices are widely used indicators of reproductive effort and nutritional condition in asteroids. Current methods of quantification generally require sacrificing multiple animals and the resulting reduction in local sea star density could have an unintended impact on benthic communities. Using the intertidal sea star Pisaster ochraceus, we developed and tested a method for estimating organ indices through the non-lethal sampling of single arms. Indices estimated via dissections of single arms accurately predicted the values obtained by sacrificing whole animals. In laboratory and field trials, we compared two methods of sampling single arms: (1) arm removal, and (2) organ extraction through an incision (without arm removal). Two years after these treatments, organs had regenerated in the affected arms of most sea stars, but were small relative to those in unmanipulated arms. The extent of organ recovery did not differ between the two treatments, but sea stars in the arm removal group were relocated in the field more frequently than those in the arm incision group. Our results suggest that sampling via the removal of single arms can be an effective, non-lethal method for estimating gonad and pyloric caecum indices in asteroids.
3227172|Laser scanning confocal microscopy is used to reveal the changes that occur in the RFamide-positive nerve net as a free-swimming, solid hydrozoan planula larva is transformed into a sessile, hollow, young polyp. Seven stages of development in Pennaria tiarella are described: planula competent to metamorphose, attaching planula, disc, pawn, crown, developing polyp, and developed primary polyp. The RFamide-positive nervous system undergoes dramatic reorganization during metamorphosis: (1) larval neurons degenerate; (2) new neurons differentiate and reform a nerve net: and (3) the overall distribution pattern of the nervous system changes. This study confirms earlier observations on RFamide-positive neurons of Hydractinia which also show the loss of these cells after the onset of metamorphosis.
10.2307/3226962|When offered an egg of the land snail Anguispira alternata, the carnivorous land snail Haplotrema concavum manipulates it, rotating the egg with its foot and rubbing its mouth on the surface of the egg shell. After ~24 minutes of such manipulation, the egg is transported by the carnivore to a covered location where it is consumed. Transport is accomplished by a repetition of the following steps: disengagement and movement away from the egg, turning back toward the egg, extension of the body from the shell toward the egg, contact with the egg, and retrieval of the egg by pulling back toward the shell. Consumption of young hatchlings of other snail species involves a similar manipulation and transport of the prey.
3701454|This paper reports the second occurrence of a sand-grain encrusting interstitial epifauna dominated by bryozoans and polychaetes at a site thousands of kilometers from the first described occurrence of such a fauna 20 years ago. Such faunas seem to have gone almost unrecorded in the marine ecological literature, but they are potentially geographically widespread and ecologically significant, deserving recognition and further study by benthic ecologists. Although rooted-erect and free-living lunulitiform bryozoans can be abundant in soft-bottom habitats, the presence of encrusting forms was, until recently, considered to be limited to patches of hard substrata. In 1985 and 1988, a new and seemingly unique habitat for encrusting bryozoans and other organisms on single grains of shell or sand was reported from the coastal waters of Florida, USA. Here we report a second discovery of an interstitial encrusting fauna from the continental shelf off the state of Sao Paulo, Brazil. In addition to the cupuladriid Discoporella umbellata, several species of bryozoans (9 cheilostomes, 3 ctenostomes, and 1 cyclostome) were found encrusting on or boring into sand grains from the 4 stations examined. Four species were found exclusively on sand to gravel size grains. The most abundant colonies, with
3227146|The oligochaete, Tubifex tubifex (Oligochaeta, Tubificidae), is capable of the autotomization and regeneration of missing body parts. The posterior end of the worm is subject to autotomy (e.g., after predation or after exposure to toxic substances) and can be regenerated thereafter. Despite the ecological importance of T. tubifex, processes of autotomy and regeneration have been little studied. This work describes daily morphological and histological observations of caudal regeneration of this worm. We also compared regeneration processes when autotomy was induced by artificial transsection of the worms (control worms) and by exposure to copper ion, a frequently encountered environmental contaminant. The worms regenerated a functional posterior end (defecation possible) in 7 d as well as a prepygidial zone from which new segments could be regenerated. In T. tubifex, regeneration involved the presence of activated mesoblastocytes in the worm, increased number of neoblasts, and the increased migration of these cells. However, Cu
40206229|Tunic cells are free cells distributed in the tunic, the integumentary matrix of tunicates. In ascidians, various types of tunic cells have been described both in solitary and in colonial species. Many of them are functionally specialized and are related to the protection of the animal, such as phagocytosis to prevent infection, acid storage to avoid predation, and pigmentation to protect against solar radiation. While some tunic cells are known to play a role in colonial allorecognition, bioluminescence, and algal symbiosis, the functional roles of many cell types still remain to be determined. The composition of tunic-cell types varies among ascidian species, most likely reflecting the functional requirements of the tunic in each species. Although some cell types, e.g., tunic net cells and tunic bladder cells, are restricted to particular taxa of ascidians, tunic phagocytes are found in all known ascidians. Therefore, tunic phagocytes are hypothesized to be basal and shared with ancestral tunicates. In some ascidians, phagocytic cells are involved in other functions, such as pigmentation, intracellular photosymbiosis, and bioluminescence. These specialized phagocytic cells are hypothesized to be derived from tunic phagocytes, suggesting that tunic cells have a high potential to diversify and evolve a wide variety of cellular functions.
3701512|Xyloplax janetae n. sp. is described from the northeast Pacific Ocean. This is the third species recognized for the monogeneric Concentricycloidea. Skeletal structures are elaborated by scanning electron microscopy and compared with those of Xyloplax medusiformis from New Zealand and Xyloplax turnerae from the Bahamas. Critical-point-dried specimens show fibrous connective tissue emerging from openings on the abactinal surface, on the abactinal spine bases, and at broken cross sections of the adambulacral spines. Knob-like structures emerging through the stereom openings of the abactinal spine base are also observed. Tube feet have round, swollen knobs and show few striations relative to other asteroids. Cosmopolitan bathyal-abyssal echinoderm species tend to exhibit few morphological differences over broad geographic ranges; this generalization is true of Xyloplax. The Concentricycloidea is proposed as an infraclass within the Asteroidea, as the sister branch to the Neoasteroidea (the crown-group asteroids) within the subclass Ambuloasteroidea. The hypothesis presented is compatible with recent phylogenetic data supporting affinities between Xyloplax and the Asteroidea. Characters plesiomorphic in basal neoasteroids are consistent with a sister-group relationship to concentricycloids. Actinal plate presence, an important synapomorphy for the Neoasteroidea, is absent from concentricycloids. The substantial morphological departure of Xyloplax is considered to be associated with the post-Paleozoic diversification of crown-group asteroids rather than from modification of an established and conservative morphology.
3227100| The reproduction and development of symbiotic polynoid polychaetes in the genus Arctonoe were examined with light and electron microscopy. Around San Juan Island, Washington, the 3 described Arctonoe spp. have very similar reproductive periods and ontogenies. Free-spawned eggs 80 m in diameter fuse with sperm and develop into planktonic, feeding larvae that bear a prototroch, but no metatroch or food groove cilia. Larvae begin feeding only after the development of episphere ciliary bands and an oral brush, consistent with the hypothesis that these structures are involved in particle capture and handling. Metamorphosis occurs in the laboratory in the absence of hosts after 6-12 weeks of feeding and growth. Juveniles begin feeding using the pharyngeal jaws several days after metamorphosis is complete. In the laboratory, worms reach sexual maturity 4-6 months after metamorphosis. The long planktonic larval period of Arctonoe spp. probably leads to high dispersal, suggesting that geographic differentiation in host preferences is unlikely except over large spatial scales. Naive juveniles of Arctonoe spp. can now be obtained from laboratory cultures to test the hypothesis that genetically based host preferences are important in determining host-use patterns in these symbionts. 
10.2307/3226861|A previous study showed negative effects of inbreeding on reproductive success in the simultaneously hermaphroditic land snail Arianta arbustorum. Different mechanisms of inbreeding avoidance such as kin recognition, sex-biased dispersal patterns, and variation in mating systems have evolved in a variety of organisms. We performed mate-choice tests to examine whether individuals of A. arbustorum discriminate between full-sibs and non-sibs from the same population, and whether incestuous matings reduce the snails' subsequent reproductive success. Snails mated randomly with respect to degree of relatedness, indicating a lack of inbreeding avoidance by selective mating. Snails which mated with full-sibs did not differ in number of eggs, hatching success of eggs, and number of offspring produced from those mated with unrelated conspecifics. Our results indicate that there is no kin recognition mechanism in A. arbustorum. We suggest that multiple mating with different partners, as observed in the field, may reduce inbreeding effects in this species.
3227097|Rotifera and Acanthocephala are generally regarded as separate phyla sharing a basal position among triploblast protostomes. This paper presents the first molecular phylogenetic examination of the relationship of Acanthocephala to all three rotifer classes, Seisonidea, Monogononta, and Bdelloidea. Inclusion of Acanthocephala within Rotifera, probably as a sistertaxon to a clade composed of Bdelloidea and Monogononta (the Eurotatoria), is strongly supported by both parsimony and distance methods, using a region of the nuclear coding gene hsp82. Previous molecular evidence for the inclusion of Acanthocephala in the Rotifera suggested that Acanthocephala is a sister-taxon of Bdelloidea, forming the clade Lemniscea. No support is found for this clade, and evidence is presented that the monogonont rotifer used in those analyses, Brachionus plicatilis, may be evolving in an anomalous manner.
40206205|Parasites can influence the population dynamics of their hosts by affecting life-history strategies and behavior. The hematophageous mite Riccardoella limacum lives in the lung cavity of terrestrial gastropods. We used correlational and experimental approaches to investigate the influence of parasite infection on the behavior and life-history traits of the simultaneously hermaphroditic land snail Arianta arbustorum, a common host of R. limacum. Naturally infected individuals of A. arbustorum, collected in the wild, showed a decreased activity compared with uninfected snails. The reproductive output, expressed as the number of eggs deposited in a reproductive season, was reduced in mite-infected hosts. However, the hatching success of the eggs laid by parasitized snails was slightly higher than that of uninfected individuals. We also examined winter survival in 361 adults of A. arbustorum collected from four natural populations. The prevalence of mite infection ranged from 44.8% to 70.1% in three populations (snails in the fourth population were not infected). Winter survival was reduced in infected snails in two out of three populations. Furthermore, experimentally infected snails from an uninfected population showed a reduced winter survival compared with control snails. Our results indicate that parasite pressure imposed by members of R. limacum may influence life history in A. arbustorum.
10.2307/3226949|Abathymermis fiseri n. sp. and Abathymermis shocki n. sp., two closely related species of mermithid nematodes, are described from adult chironomids emerging from Lake Itasca, Minnesota in early June of 1992 and 1993. These are the first two species of Abathymermis reported outside the Palearctic Realm. The species are distinguished from other sufficiently described members of the genus by their larger size, long protractor and abbreviated bursal musculature, longer spicules, and the position of the posterior extention of the trophosome in the male. A. fiseri n. sp. and A. shocki n. sp. are separated by several quantitative characteristics including spicule lengths, body widths at most levels, and number of genital papillae. In addition the pointed tail and the presence of cephalic superficial cuticular annuli in A. shocki n. sp. differ from the rounded tail and absence of annuli in A. fiseri. n. sp. Eggs of A. fiseri n. sp. require fertilization to initiate embryogenesis, while eggs of A. shocki n. sp. can develop parthenogenetically, although males are known-the first demonstration of parthenogenesis resulting in viable offspring in an aquatic mermithid. The host chironomid species remain unknown. Eleven species of mermithids from eight genera have now been reported from Lake Itasca chironomids.
3227274|To determine patterns of resource allocation among ascidians, we studied 16 colonial and solitary species. We measured investment in reproductive vs. structural material (tunic) both in terms of weight and caloric content, as well as fecundity and degree of larval complexity in the colonial species. Measurements in weight and caloric content were highly correlated in the species studied. A wide range of investment in reproduction was found. Tunic production was related to the growth form of the species, stolonic and solitary species investing less in tunic than massive species. but no significant relationship was found between investment in tunic production vs. reproduction. In colonial species we found that in species with small zooid size, the reproductive investment per zooid was significantly higher. There was a significant negative relationship between investment in reproduction and fecundity. We also found a significant relationship between reproductive investment and larval complexity. The overall trend was that species with low fecundity had large complex larvae and invested the most energy in reproduction.
10.2307/3226890|The porcellanid crab Porcellana sayana is usually found associated with gastropod snails or hermit crabs that occupy gastropod shells. In this study, we examined chemical mediation and host selection by P. sayana collected from hermit crabs. Chemical detection tests were done in a four-chamber choice apparatus. Odors tested were from the co-occurring symbiotic sea anemone Calliactis tricolor, the non-symbiotic anemone Aiptasia pallida, the hermit crab Dardanus venosus, and the gastropod snail Polinices duplicatus. In addition to odors from live animals, frozen and thawed snail muscle was tested. P. sayana was attracted chemically only to C. tricolor. In host selection tests involving sea anemones and gastropod shells, P. sayana chose C. tricolor over shells, but chose shells over A. pallida. When given no other choice, P. sayana still avoided the non-symbiotic anemone while readily going to C. tricolor in separate trials. Apparently, a symbiosis between P. sayana and C. tricolor has ensued from the porcellanid/hermit crab association.
3227238|Ecdysis in scorpions has some common features in all species in which it has been examined. Immature scorpions about to molt become less active, and the cuticle changes in appearance. When humidity and other conditions are suitable, the animal begins ecdysis with cheliceral and pedipalpal movements and internal processes that tear the pleural membrane just ventral to the anterior and lateral edges of the carapace. The carapace is pushed upward from within, and the animal starts to emerge through the opening made by the elevated carapace. This is usually done in the prone position. As the anterior body emerges, the pedipalps and walking legs are stretched posteriorly with their distal ends temporarily confined within the old exoskeleton. The buthid scorpions Androctonus australis and Parabuthus transvaalicus become supine before they begin to emerge. Ecdysis is completed lying supine, and the animal rights itself shortly thereafter. A turnover from upright to supine is not seen at any other time in scorpions. After prone or supine extraction, the exuvium includes the cuticle of booklungs, bristles, and sensilla and is relatively intact except for the wedge-shaped opening at the anterior end.
10.2307/3226897|Lamellibranch gills are used for various vital functions ranging from food capture to ion regulation. The foundation for many of these functions is the transport of water through the gill. Few studies have examined the role of intrinsic gill muscles and their ability to control water flow by altering the dimensions of the water passageways of the gill. In this report we examine the organization of intrinsic gill muscles and associated connective tissue in zebra mussels, Dreissena polymorpha. Two sets of muscles lie within the hemocoel of the gill and are bathed with hemolymph. In those muscles associated with the connective tissue sheets (which underlie external and internal gill epithelia), the orientation of the muscle fibers is consistent with a role of regulating the external and internal ostial area. Those muscles encased in connective tissue bands and oriented perpendicular to the bases of gill filaments reduce interfilament distance in the gill; these muscles are antagonized by dense connective tissue cross-struts that push the gill filaments apart when the muscles relax. The two sets of muscles are oriented to serve complementary functions in reducing ostial openings, thus affecting water flow through the gill. The muscles of the gill respond to application of exogenous acetylcholine, FMRFamide, and serotonin. The gill contracts in response to acetylcholine and FMRFamide but relaxes with serotonin application. Microscopic observation of live gill tissues reveals complex and dynamic changes in gill dimensions consistent with a role in regulating water flow.
10.2307/3226903|Two new species of solitary ascidians from the deep sea off Oman, Arabian Sea, are described. Agnezia monnioti n. sp. is from the abyssal plain at 3162 m depth. Whereas many deep-sea ascidians have reduced branchial ciliation and exploit the velocity gradient in the benthic boundary layer to induce internal flow, this species has strong ciliation and a siphonal arrangement that appears inappropriate for using ambient water currents for filtration. Styela gagetyleri n. sp. is found at a depth of 368 m, which is in the middle of a persistent oxygen minimum zone. The branchial sac of this species has a reduced number of folds and therefore fewer cilia for food collection and less surface area for oxygen exchange than shallow-water congeners. We hypothesize that reduced filtration capacity is made possible by an unusually high flux of organic material to the sea floor in this region. The observed reduction in branchial surface area in a persistent hypoxic zone suggests that branchial complexity in ascidians is more important for feeding efficiency than gas exchange. Affinities of these species with other members of their respective genera are discussed and an appendix with the synonyms and localities of species in the genus Agnezia is included.
10.2307/3226989|We investigated factors that influence larval color in black flies of the Simulium vittatum complex. In the laboratory, larvae were exposed to different light sources (ultraviolet and fluorescent "cool white"), background colors (black and white), and diets (periphyton, Spirulina, and fish food). Larvae were significantly darker when exposed to ultraviolet radiation, when reared in black containers, and when fed periphyton. Larval color was independent of sex. In the field, larvae on rocks were significantly darker than those on in-stream vegetation. Larval color also varied among seasons. Pigment analyses suggested that field-collected larvae contain a carotenoid. To investigate the adaptive significance of larval color, visual predators (Gambusia holbrooki) were introduced to a recirculating flume that contained dark larvae on black and white backgrounds. The predatory fish consumed significantly more dark larvae on white squares than expected by chance. Larvae, however, did not select a background that matched their body color. Our investigations show that a significant component of color is under environmental control.
10.2307/3226869|Recent papers by R.M. Rieger and colleagues explore the possibility that bilateral metazoans have evolved from colonial ancestors. More conventional theories derive them from motile, ciliated ancestors, usually of small size, resembling either flatworms or placozoans. This paper examines the related issue of whether a colonial origin may explain some features of deuterostome metazoans, specifically: (1) whether the deuterostome body might be a composite entity, with the mouth and anus being derived from the mouths of separate zooids-the anus from the mouth of the oozooid or larva; the definitive mouth from the mouth of the first blastozooid of the adult colony-and (2) their developmental flexibility in comparison to protostomes, using echinoderms and tunicates as examples of how extremely well developed this capability is in deuterostomes. The idea of a composite body, referred to here as the "diplozoon hypothesis," has potentially important implications for how homologies between protostomes and deuterostomes are interpreted.
3227156|With few exceptions, spermatozoa-encapsulating packages in molluscs are known mostly from cephalopods and pulmonate gastropods. Among non-stylommatophoran gastropods, the marine Cerithioidea are second only to the Neritimorpha in the number of species that posess a spermatophore, but they have only rarely been found in freshwater taxa of this superfamily. We describe and compare here the sperm packages of 11 paludomid cerithioideans as part of an ongoing study on the evolution and systematics of the thalassoid (i.e., "marine-like") endemic species flock from Lake Tanganyika. Stereomicroscopic and SEM examination revealed unexpected complexity in shape and structure of spermatophores within paludomids. In addition, we present a survey of other Cerithioidea, which revealed that spermatophores are in general structurally simple and confirmed their presence in 12 marine species (five families) and 15 limnic species (four families), including those of 10 thalassoid species for which spermatophores are described herein. Based on histological sections of the male genital tract, we hypothesize that spermatophores are formed anteriorly, wholly or in part, by the so-called spermatophore-forming organ, and which is considered a synapomorphy of the Paludomidae. In addition, we briefly discuss functional aspects inferred from morphological study of the spermatophore-forming organ, with possible implications for spermatozoan transfer and fertilization. Finally, we place the features of the spermatophores and the spermatophore-forming organ in a phylogenetic framework of cerithioidean and paludomid systematics, which suggests that the spermatophore-forming organ is a synapomorphy of Paludomidae, that a bifurcate spermatophore structure is plesiomorphic, and that the evolution of structurally complex, spiny spermatophores has occurred independently in disparate lineages within the thalassoid species flock.
23016710|The polychaete Dipolydora commensalis is an obligate symbiont of hermit crabs and produces a burrow along the columella of the gastropod shells they inhabit. Adults of D. commensalis have short palps that they use to feed on particles dropped or brought in by the respiratory currents of hosts. To determine whether hermit crabs influence palp length, specimens of D. commensalis were isolated in glass capillary tubes and the growth of palps was measured over a 3-week period. Palp length was also measured in worms isolated in gastropod shells with or without hermit crabs for 2 weeks. In addition, to determine whether adults of D. commensalis have regeneration capabilities like those of free-living relatives, worms were cut at the fifth or 15th setiger and then monitored for 35 d. Worms extracted from shells and placed into capillary tubes had initial palp lengths of 1.00.4 mm (n = 17); after isolation, palps were 40% longer (1.40.4 mm, n = 17). Worms in gastropod shells with hermit crabs had an average palp length of 0.90.4 mm (n = 31), whereas worms in shells without hermit crabs had palps that were 33% longer (1.20.5 mm, n = 40). Adults of D. commensalis are capable of regeneration; 35 d after ablation at setigers 5 or 15, the average number of anterior setigers regenerated was 5 (n = 15) and 91.3 (n = 13), respectively. The average number of posterior setigers regenerated from the 15 setiger anterior fragments was 116 (n = 10). The findings suggest that the palps (and sometimes anterior ends) of the worms are exposed during feeding and are cut during movement of the hermit crab. In the laboratory worms can live for >4 years, considerably longer than the functional life span of most gastropod shells inhabited by hermit crabs.
41408397|Symbiotic crustaceans are expected to live solitarily with their hosts when members of their host species are small (relative to symbiont body size) and structurally simple. We tested the hypothesis of a solitary lifestyle in Ascidonia flavomaculata, symbiotic shrimp that inhabits the branchial chamber of the relatively small and structurally simple tunicate Ascidia mntula in the subtidal zone of the Islas Baleares, Spain. We found that members of A. flavomaculata dwell as solitary individuals in the branchial chamber of ascidians at a higher frequency than expected by chance alone. Given this host use pattern of A. flavomaculata, we hypothesized that males actively move among host individuals in search of receptive females. We provide several lines of evidence consistent with that hypothesis. First, a positive correlation between shrimp and host body size was detected for females, but not for males, during one of the sampling seasons. If males as well as females spend long periods of time within their host individuals, a positive correlation between shrimp and host body size should have been found for both males and females. Second, the body sizes of individuals in the few male-female pairs observed during this study were poorly correlated. If males of A. flavomaculata shared their host individuals with females for long periods of time, a positive correlation between the sizes of males and females in a pair should have been found. Lastly, the body sizes of paired males were larger than those of solitary males during summer, when reproduction was more intense. This difference in body size between paired and solitary males additionally suggests competition among putatively roaming males for receptive females. Manipulative experiments and behavioral observations are necessary to reveal the details of the mating system of A. flavomaculata and other symbiotic crustaceans with a solitary lifestyle.
41408398|Factors controlling sperm production in members of the Orthoptera have not been fully elucidated. In this study, the influence of intermating interval and ad libidum mating on sperm number was investigated in black field crickets (Teleogryllus commodus). Remating at a variety of time intervals was not characterized by a significant change in sperm number compared with the first mating. Ad libitum mating (i.e., continuous availability of unmated females) had two main effects on spermatophore production and sperm number: first, there was a trend toward increased time between copulations with each successive remating, and second, the number of spermatozoa encapsulated in the transferred spermatophore declined after most rematings, with 61.8% of the initial sperm number being produced for the second spermatophore and 51.3% of the initial sperm number being produced for the third. The decrease in mean sperm number was accompanied by increased variance in sperm number in later rematings. This study suggests that males are willing to suffer a decrease in sperm number if a mating opportunity occurs before the completion of sperm production.
3227169|Classical studies of horseshoe crab development have provided relatively little information about the earliest stages, and the contribution of yolk cells and yolk nuclei-a deficiency due in large part to the difficulty of preparing the eggs and embryos for sectioning. Using newly developed histological resins, we show that the yolk nuclei undergo a series of changes during embryogenesis, before cellularizing and forming the midgut epithelium during the first larval stage. The digestive diverticulum forms in a 2-step process. A mesodermally derived lamina divides the yolk mass into distinct lobes, defining the boundaries of the digestive caeca. The yolk nuclei then cellularize to form the midgut epithelium.
10.2307/3227016| Comprehensive ultrastructural investigation of spermiogenesis and the mature sperm in Thylacorhynchus ambronensis revealed a number of features valuable for cladistic analysis. Two basal bodies lie on either side of an intercentriolar body in the zone of differentiation of the spermatid, but only one develops into a normal flagellum while the other remains as a small bud, eventually disappearing. Structures within and surrounding the two basal bodies differ, and, contrary to observations in another monoaxonemal schizorhynch (Baltoplana magna), the two basal bodies become separated and only that of the normal flagellum is carried distally from the cytophore which unites an isogenic group of spermatids. A spiralling ridge develops on a projection of the spermatid that is distal to the flagellar basal body; the normal flagellum becomes incorporated into the shaft of the sperm, paralleling its long axis, in the distal to proximal orientation; and the nucleus and a string of mitochondria become tightly coiled around the axoneme. Cortical microtubules surrounding the nucleus, mitochondria, and axoneme are also helically wound around the shaft, except at the proximal end. Mature sperms are very long and filiform, with a corkscrew structure ~7 m long at the distal end. The nucleus extends throughout most of the length of the sperm, while mitochondria and the central axoneme terminate some distance from the proximal end. There are no dense bodies in any region of the sperm. Although terminal corkscrew structures and, separately, monoaxonemal sperms have been found in other platyhelminth taxa, evidence suggests that neither of these features is homologous between T. ambronensis and those taxa. 
40206224|Diminished populations of eastern oysters Crassostrea virginica in Chesapeake Bay have stimulated proposals to introduce Crassostrea ariakensis from Asia to restore oyster stocks. As part of a program evaluating possible ramifications of such an introduction, we studied how invertebrate predators responded to this non-native oyster. We compared predation activity under laboratory conditions by oyster drills (Urosalpinx cinerea; Eupleura caudat) that bore through an oyster's shell and by the seastar Asterias forbesi that pulls shell valves apart. These three predators preyed significantly (p < 0.05) more on the familiar C. virginica than on the novel C. ariakensis. We previously reported that five crab species preyed significantly more on C. ariakensis than on C. virginica, with predation by polyclad flatworms similar between oyster species. Thus, the drills and the seastar differed from the crabs and the flatworms in their response to novel prey. When Urosalpinx cinerea was placed in a Y-maze after being held for 40 d with oysters of one species or the other, the drills moved toward C. virginica effluent more than toward C. ariakensis effluent. This response did not depend on the species of oyster the drills had been held with, suggesting that the drills were responding to more familiar infochemicals from eastern oysters than from the non-native oysters.
3701500|New data on shell reactions elicited by larval digeneans in bivalves from Recent sub-Antarctic populations and late Holocene Patagonian deposits are reported. Shell alterations, which are traces of digenean trematode infections, were found affecting intertidal bivalve populations from Malvinas (Falkland) Islands, Burdwood Bank, Beagle Channel, and from Holocene deposits at Tierra del Fuego (Argentina). The bivalve species involved belonged to the families Nuculanidae, Cyamiidae, and Neoleptonidae. Such reactions consisted of quite unusual dome or igloo-shaped calcifications on the inner shell surface; the similarities and uniqueness of this reaction in different bivalve species reported here suggest that the invasive agent is the same. Based on previous findings of morphologically identical shell alterations in Gaimardia trapesina (Bivalvia, Gaimardiidae) from Magellanic and sub-Antarctic waters, it is suggested that the parasites responsible for the traces reported here belong to a digenean platyhelminth species of the Gymnophallidae genus Bartolius. The host bivalves reported here belong to three different superfamilies, and share a similar crystalline shell microstructure: aragonite with homogeneous structure. After a review of the available information dealing with bivalve shell-mantle reactions against digeneans, it is hypothesized that parasites are responsible for the modeling of the host response they elicit. However, although the specific characteristics of the reaction depend on the parasite, they would probably be constrained by some characteristics of the host shell structure.
3227190|A mermithid, a parasite of a spider (Araneae: Thomisidae) in Baltic amber (40 mya), is described as Heydenius araneus n.sp. (Nematoda: Mermithidae) and represents the first fossil record of a nematode parasite of an arachnid. After a critical examination of reports of naturally occurring helminths of extant spiders, I conclude that although mermithid parasitism is well established in this host group, previous reports of hairworm parasites of spiders are "nomina dubia," putative records, or refer to mermithid nematodes.
40206225|Octopodids are a globally distributed group of marine molluscs. Despite this, our knowledge of their reproductive biology rests heavily on inference, as all phases of copulation, beginning with sperm transfer, occur within the mantle cavity. Male octopuses insert a spermatophore into the female's oviduct, which is predicted to release a sperm-filled sac that either bursts to release sperm for storage or to itself be stored in a gland in the middle of the oviduct. To test whether female octopuses use sperm from multiple males to fertilize their eggs, as may be predicted from anatomy and anecdotal accounts, we apply microsatellite analysis to a partial clutch of Graneledone boreopacifica collected at 1600-m depth to test for multiple paternity. At least two genetically distinct sires contributed sperm to the hatchlings analyzed, demonstrating for the first time multiple paternity in octopodids.
40206228|The extraordinary parasitic metanauplius larva of Caribeopsyllus amphiodiae is sexually dimorphic, with conspicuous gonads, and elaborate lens-bearing eyes. The parasites usually occur singly within their host, and grow for 5 months within the stomach of burrowing ophiuroids (Amphiodia urtic). They transform into free-living, semelparous, non-feeding adults that live only 2 weeks. The species' life-history pattern, with a larval period ~ 10  longer than the adult life span, is contrariwise to that of other copepods but not for animals with non-feeding adults of both sexes. It appears that the life cycle of C. amphiodiae is pedomorphic, and probably evolved through a delay of metamorphosis regulated by developmental hormones. We attribute the dominance of the larval phase to the greater potential for survival and growth of the enterozoic parasitic stages than of the free-living, post-metamorphic stages. We note that among marine invertebrates, non-feeding adults of both sexes occur exclusively in taxa with a complex life cycle, and that non-feeding adults of both sexes are never found in taxa that have small larvae and delayed maturation. They occur only when there is a large larva that can provide the adult stage with sufficient nutrient reserves for reproduction.
3227185|The corallimorpharian Rhodactis rhodostoma appears to be an opportunistic species capable of rapidly monopolizing patches of unoccupied shallow substrate on tropical reefs. On a fringing coral reef at Eilat, Israel, northern Red Sea, we examined patterns of abundance and clonal replication in R. rhodostoma in order to understand the modes and rates of spread of polyps across the reef flat. Polyps were abundant on the inner reef flat (maximum 1510 polyps m
10.2307/3226956| The fluorescent dye acridine orange (C.I. 46005) was found to be useful for differentiating cuticular layers and therefore can aid in determining the molt stage of decapod crustaceans. For Procambarus clarkii and Callinectes sapidus, best results were achieved by staining 10-m sections of alcoholic formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue with a 0.1% aqueous solution at pH 4.0. The sections were viewed with an epifluorescence microscope after being excited with three specific wavelength ranges: blue, violet, and ultraviolet. Sections also were examined with bright-field illumination. The exocuticle, which emitted red to orange metachromatic fluorescence, was easily distinguished from the endocuticle, which emitted green to blue orthochromatic fluorescence. 
40206200|For simultaneous hermaphrodites, a male-to-female shift in sex allocation with growth, and weak sexual selection on the male function, is predicted by many theories, although empirical data for both predictions are insufficient for internally fertilizing hermaphrodites with nonreciprocal mating. To address these issues, I studied mating and egg-laying behavior of the sea hare, Aplysia kurodai (Gastropoda: Opisthobranchia) in the laboratory. Both frequency and duration of egg laying increased with body weight, indicating that fecundity increased with weight. On the other hand, frequency and duration of mating as males did not increase with body weight, suggesting that sperm usage was independent of weight. Therefore, sex allocation shifted from male to female functions with growth. The lack of a relationship between body weight and mating activities as males also suggests that there was no "female" choice for large partners. However, the frequency of mating as females increased with body weight, suggesting "male" choice for large partners. This "male" choice is further supported by the presence of size-assortative mating and a longer duration of mating when the female partner was large. In addition, the variance in mating frequency as females was larger than that as males. As a whole, the mating behavior in A. kurodai can be summarized as choosy as males and unchoosy as females, the opposite of the patterns known in most gonochoric and hermaphroditic animals.
3701447|The snail Helix lucorum has been used as a model to study the adaptation of a nitric oxide (NO)-forming enteric neural network to the long-term resting period of summer estivation or winter hibernation. Quantification of the NO-derived nitrite established that NO formation is confined to the nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-containing myenteric network of the mid-intestine. In active snails but not in resting snails, NO production could be enhanced by the NOS substrate L-arginine (L-ARG, 1 mM). We followed the enteric NO synthesis in a snail population kept at natural conditions for 1 year. Our findings indicate that NO synthesis was depressed in July during entry to the estivation, had a peak in autumn before hibernation, and finally was reduced during hibernation. Monoamines (histamine, serotonin, and adrenalin) could inhibit the NO liberation in active snails. Cofactors of NOS (
10.2307/3226912|The discovery of a fungal commensal on the gills of Bathynerita naticoidea, the dominant gastropod at petroleum seep communities located along the Gulf of Mexico upper continental slope (500-800 m), is reported. Light and electron micrographs revealed filamentous fungi of the class Ascomycetes and unidentified fungal bodies associated with the gill tissue of each of the 7 freshly collected specimens of B. naticoidea examined. Fungi were found attached to the surface of the gill cells, intercellularly, within the gill blood spaces, enclosed in otherwise empty intracellular vacuoles, and external but adjacent to the gill tissue. The exact nature of this fungal association is unknown; the fungi may act to detoxify the hydrocarbons and sulfide compounds of the seep environment, or may be parasites that have infected the gill tissue. Although chemoautotrophic and methanotrophic bacterial symbionts have been found previously within the gills of deep-sea (2200-3000 m) hydrothermal vent gastropods, there was no evidence of bacterial symbionts within the gills of B. naticoidea. This is the first report of a fungal association within gastropods endemic to hydrocarbon seep or hydrothermal vent communities.
3227167| Life-history attributes and the reproductive biology of Enchytraeus coronatus (Oligochaeta, Enchytraeidae) were studied in agar cultures, as a basis for using this species in toxicity tests and other experimental studies. The use of agar allows daily examination of the behavior, reproduction, and mortality of the worms. At 20C, E. coronatus had a generation time of 21-22 days and an embryonic period of 7-10 days. Hatch rate was high (>80%) and worms became sexually mature 8-10 days after hatching. Cocoon production and number of eggs per cocoon were positively correlated. Mortality in the first stages of the life cycle (embryonic period and first week after hatching) was about 38%. Three different periods of cocoon production were distinguished: a period characterized by a regular increase in the number of cocoons produced (weeks 4-9), a period of production at a constant high rate of ~5 cocoons per week (weeks 10-20), and a period of decline in production rate (weeks 21-32), down to a mean value of 1.6 cocoons per adult in the last week. This study showed that synchronized agar cultures of cohorts can provide adults for long-term experimental tests, with the age for optimum reproduction being 8-20 weeks. 
3701508|The functional morphology and the topographic distribution of tissues in the reproductive system of specimens of Dugesia leporii, an endemic Sardinian free-living planarian, are investigated. Data are provided on the nature of epithelial and glandular secretions, spermatophores, and cocoons by histochemistry, light microscopy, and scanning electron microscopy. All secreting epithelial cells produce strongly acidic sulfated glycoproteins. Glandular cells secrete strongly acidic sulfated glycoproteins or keratohyalin-like material in the penis bulb, and prekeratin-like material in atrial glands. Secretions of the bursa copulatrix may be involved in the activation of sperm while material produced by the bursa canal and oviducts probably serves to propel spermatophores or sperm and eggs. Mucous secretion of the seminal vesicle may serve to dilute and activate sperm before copulation. The viscous secrete of the ejaculatory duct and vasa deferentia may play a protective role to maintain sperm viability. Materials produced by the penis papilla and atrium probably lubricate the epithelial surface. The bilayered wall of spermatophore made of keratohyalin-like material and strongly acidic sulfated glycoproteins is produced by two gland types of the penis bulb. The bilayered shell of cocoon made of prekeratin-like and keratohyalin-like materials is secreted by both atrial glands and vitelline cells. The cocoon stalk is made of keratohyalin-like material produced by cement glands. Shell glands, producing GAG, are not involved in cocoon formation, but they may be implicated in the dilution and activation of seminal material to favor sperm movement toward the oviducts.
10.2307/3226894|Epibiont ciliates on the exoskeleton of the decapod crustacean Liocarcinus depurator, a portunid crab collected off the Mediterranean coast of Spain, included 11 species, belonging to three subclasses. The chonotrich Chilodochona quennerstedti, the most abundant species, colonized specific sites on the crab, the mouthparts. The peritrichs, identified as Zoothamnium sp. and Cothurnia sp., and the suctorians, identified as Acineta tuberosa, Acineta papillifera, Ephelota gemmipara, Actinocyathula homari, Paracineta limbata, Conchacineta constricta, Corynophrya anisostyla, and Acinetides symbiotica, were generally less site-specific. Feeding activities, burying behavior, and molt state of the host crab, and competition between ciliate species, are mentioned as the most important factors in the occurrence of ciliates on the crustacean body.
40981236|We examined the nuchal organs of adults of the nereidid polychaete Platynereis dumerilii by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The most prominent features of the nuchal organs are paired ciliary bands located dorsolaterally at the posterior margin of the prostomium. They are composed of primary sensory cells and multiciliated supporting cells, both covered by a thin cuticle. The supporting cells have motile cilia that penetrate the cuticle and are responsible for the movement of water. Subapically, they have a narrowed neck region; the spaces between the neck regions of these supporting cells comprise the olfactory chamber. The dendrites of the sensory cells give rise to a single modified cilium that crosses the olfactory chamber; numerous thin microvillus-like processes, presumably extending from the sensory cells, also traverse the olfactory chamber. At the periphery of the ciliated epithelium runs a large nervous process between the ciliated supporting cells. It consists of smaller bundles of sensory dendrites that unite to form the nuchal nerve, which leaves the ciliated epithelium basally and runs toward the posterior part of the brain, where the perikarya of the sensory cells are located in clusters. The ciliated epithelium of the nuchal organs is surrounded by non-ciliated, peripheral epidermal cells. Those immediately adjacent to the ciliated supporting cells have a granular cuticle; those further away have a smooth cuticle. The nuchal organs of epitokous individuals of P. dumerilii are similar to those described previously in other species of polychaetes and are a useful model for understanding the development of nuchal organs in polychaetes.
4124902|Life cycles, ploidy levels, reproductive modes, and regeneration capacities of laboratory populations of the southern Brazil freshwater planarians Girardia tigrina and Girardia schubarti were studied. The mating behavior and life cycle of different populations from both species were analyzed regarding their karyotype, body size, modes of reproduction, and regeneration potential. Reproduction was evaluated according to fecundity, fertility, and fissiparity indices. In both species we observed that diploid planarians are ~25% larger than triploid or mixoploid ones and that sexually reproducing populations have more offspring than asexual ones. Cocoon incubation time was shorter for G. tigrina, and G. schubarti showed a higher frequency of spontaneous malformations. G. tigrina was both more fecund (produced more cocoons) and more fertile (produced more hatchlings) than G. schubarti. The effects of alternative food sources (liver or egg yolk), demographic density, and water salt concentration were evaluated in different populations of both species. All evaluated environmental factors had effects on fecundity and fertility indices and were more prominent for G. schubarti than for G. tigrina. Our data suggest that the populations of G. schubarti were more sensitive to environmental factors, and thus may be useful as bioindicators.
3227066|Colonies of the branching Caribbean gorgonian Pseudopterogorgia elisabethae were subjected to partial mortality at 2 sites in the Bahamas to study how colony growth responds to disturbances such as harvesting, grazing, and storm damage. Colonies were clipped so that either 4 branches or 10 branches remained. Growth rates of branches were then monitored over 1 year and compared with nearby unclipped colonies. No significant differences were found between branch extension rates among the 3 treatments. Extension rates of newly formed branches were significantly greater in all treatments than among branches present at the start of the experiment. Per capita branching rates were greater on the more severely clipped colonies and were smallest on control colonies. The absolute number of branches that became mother branches did not differ among treatments. Colonies clipped so that 4 and 10 branches remained had the same average number of mother branches per colony, and there was no significant difference between treatments in the average number of new branches formed on the colonies. Per capita branching rates were significantly different among treatments only because the relative proportion of branches that became mother branches was higher in colonies with four branches than in treatments with more initial branches. Total growth (cumulative growth on all branches) was not significantly different between the 2 clipped treatments. Many of the control colonies suffered extensive damage, which may have obscured the comparison of clipped and unclipped treatments; however, within the range of these clipping treatments, differing levels of partial mortality did not lead to different recovery rates. The lack of treatment effects is particularly relevant to assessing the effects of harvest techniques on the recovery and productivity of harvested, naturally occurring, colonies.
23016671|Intraspecific variation in eye size in relation to ecological factors has not been well studied. Here, for the first time, we show that larger eyes in a freshwater crustacean may be associated with the presence of predators. In central Pennsylvania (USA), individuals of the amphipod crustacean Gammarus minus have significantly larger eyes in two freshwater springs with numerous fish predators (Cottus cognatus) than in three springs with few or no fish predators. Although we do not know the precise causes of these differences, this study and previous work on cave populations of G. minus suggest that eye size is an evolutionarily malleable trait that may respond to multiple selection pressures, either directly or indirectly. Three plausible explanations for the eye-size variation observed among our study populations include (1) larger eyes may enable amphipods to better detect and avoid fish predators, (2) fish predation favors nocturnal or shallow interstitial activity that is facilitated by larger, more light-sensitive eyes, or (3) the presence of fishes is associated with other environmental factors that may favor relatively large eyes. Available evidence suggests that the first hypothesis is the most viable explanation, but further study is required.
10.2307/3227017|The nervous system of the adult pike-tapeworm Triaenophorus nodulosus was studied to identify nerve cells and fibers immunoreactive to serotonin (5-HT) and RFamide (RF) on whole-mount preparations and frozen sections. Neurons immunoreactive to 5-HT were seen solely in the central nervous system, while those immunoreactive to RF occurred in the peripheral nervous system as well as in the central nervous system. In the scolex, both types of nerve fibers were found. While the gonads were not innervated by either fiber type, the reproductive tract showed RF-immunoreactive nerves. On the ultrastructural level, five types of neurons and three types of release sites and a neuromuscular junction could be distinguished. Levels of 5-HT, measured spectrofluorimetrically, were found to be lower in the tapeworm than in the tissues where it resides in its host, indicating a possibility that the parasite absorbs this bioamine from its environment.
10.2307/3226887|Hearts were implanted heterotopically into the hemocoel of the snail Biomphalaria glabrata from members of 7 pulmonate genera: Bulinus truncatus, Drepanotrema kermatoides, Helisoma trivolvis, Physa virgata, Planorbis atticus, Pseudosuccinea columella, and Segmentina hemisphaerula. Hearts from H. trivolvis withstood an initial host hemocytic response and continued to contract for 6 months. However, xenografts from the other 6 species were infiltrated and encapsulated by host hemocytes and underwent destruction between 1 and 15 days post-implantation. Graft destruction may have involved both immunological rejection and physiological incompatibility with recipient plasma, but the former was probably more important because (1) necrosis of heart myofibers occurred rapidly and only following hemocytic infiltration, and (2) some donor hearts possessed mostly euchromatic nuclei and continued to contract for up to 2 weeks when cultured in isotonic saline.
4124907|In many ways, the apposition eye of the erotylid fungus beetle Neotriplax lewisi resembles that of chrysomelids: its 400-500 mostly hexagonal ommatidia are of the acone type and possess "open rhabdoms," a tapetum is not present, and axons penetrate the basement membrane in distinct bundles of eight. The eye also shows some unusual features that, at present, defy clear functional interpretation. Firstly, the cuticle of the interfacetal areas stains differently from that of the corneal lenses and, secondly, the two rhabdom systems in each ommatidium (central and peripheral) both possess microvilli that are oriented in such a way as to permit e-vector discrimination. On the basis of comparisons with other open rhabdom eyes, it is postulated that vision in N. lewisi involves neither high resolving power nor superior absolute sensitivity. However, this beetle can distinguish illuminated from shaded areas, and seems specialized to make use of sky polarization (probably in the UV and green regions of the spectrum) and/or the position of the sun as a course-stabilizing function during flights.
3227069|The ability of an olfactory-dominant organism, the land snail Anguispira alternata, to negotiate an odor-permeable barrier to obtain food in still air was tested. Thirty-nine snails were challenged with a "V"-shaped wire mesh fence that allowed them to get within 1 cm of their food but required them to turn away from the food to move around the fence. Fifteen snails were tested under the same conditions but without a food odor source present. Of the 39 snails tested with food, 22 moved up the odor gradient directly toward the food. Twentyone of these snails altered their foraging behavior by moving away from the odor source after they encountered the barrier. Twelve of these 21 moved along the fence to the food. The other 9 snails moved away from the fence and wandered about within the arena. Of the 39 snails tested, 17 did not move toward the food but by-passed the fence by either following the arena edge or moving toward the gap between the fence and the arena wall. Since some of these snails obtained the food without encountering the fence, a second experiment challenged 19 snails with a "J"-shaped fence in which one of the possible detour paths was blocked. There was no difference in the number of snails taking the blocked path vs. snails taking the open path. Therefore it is unlikely that these snails were able to detect the fence and plot a path around it before actually moving. In the 2 experiments, 91% of the snails that followed the odor gradient directly toward the food subsequently switched their foraging behavior. The ability of these snails to switch their foraging behavior was unexpected in an olfactory-dominant animal and suggests that their behavior is based on a significant amount of sensory processing.
3227135|It has long been speculated that Physa acuta, a pulmonate snail widespread and invasive in fresh waters of the old world, may have originated in North America. But the identification of a new-world cognate has been complicated by the confused systematics and taxonomy of the Physidae in America. More than 40 species of physids are currently recognized in the United States, many with variable and overlapping morphology. We have previously established that premating reproductive isolation is negligible among physid snails. Here we report the results from no-choice crosses each involving 2 populations of the widespread American species Physa heterostropha and Physa integra, both with each other and with P. acuta, designed to compare measures of reproductive success between species and between populations within species. Samples of P. acuta were collected from France and Ireland, P. heterostropha from eastern Pennsylvania and South Carolina, and P. integra from southern Indiana and northern Michigan. The 6 intrapopulation controls varied quite significantly in their survival, age at first reproduction, parental fecundity, F
10.2307/3227019|We interpret reduction of the claws on the fourth pair of legs as a convergent adaptation of interstitial soil-dwelling tardigrades. The eutardigrades Hexapodibius degenerans, Macrobiotus pseudohufelandi, and M. xerophilus are re-examined and H. degenerans re-described. Due to the absence of true claws on the fourth pair of legs and to the symmetry of its claws on the first three pairs of legs, H. degenerans is attributed to a new genus, Pseudohexapodibius, belonging to the family Macrobiotidae. On the basis of the peculiar type of claws, without a distinct peduncle, M. pseudohufelandi and M. xerophilus are attributed to another new genus of Macrobiotidae, Xerobiotus.
3227099|Haplotrema concavum, a carnivorous land snail, responds differently to the same prey when hunting versus when transporting food. The ability of these animals to distinguish between fresh, unmanipulated or uneaten prey and manipulated or partially eaten prey was tested by switching prey items while the predator was in the process of transporting the prey. Predators responded to a switch from a manipulated egg of Anguispira alternata to an unmanipulated egg by suspending transport behavior while the new egg was manipulated. Seven of ten predators responded to a switch from an egg of A. alternata to a conspecific (H. concavum) egg by stopping transport and abondoning the less-preferred food. Predators responded to a switch from partially eaten hatchlings of A. alternata to fresh but injured hatchlings by stopping transport after the retrieval stage to eat the new hatchling, after which transport was resumed. Predators which were not engaged in transport behavior attacked rather than retrieved fresh, injured hatchling prey. These results suggest that by manipulating its prey, the predator alters the sensory stimulus of the prey by marking the prey with predator mucus which, in turn, elicits the transport behavior by the predatory snail.
10.2307/3226874|Some 19 valid species of rotifers in the genus Colurella have been described from all parts of the world, mostly from littoral or interstitial habitats of fresh and salt waters. Colurella monodactylos and C. althausae, described from marine interstitial sands of the Black Sea and Caribbean, respectively, are significantly different from their congeners. Although no type specimens were deposited for either species, published drawings or photographs provide enough evidence to conclude that both of these "rotifers" are in fact ciliated protists of the family Dysteriidae, probably of the genus Dysteria.
40206210|We compared growth rates and final morphological states of the athecate colonial hydroid Podocoryna carnea in two nutritional environments: one varying the quantity of food provided at a fixed interval and the second varying the time between feedings of a fixed quantity. In both environments, replicate colonies were either fed uniformly, or fed on only one side and starved on the other. In addition, we fed colonies fluorescence-labeled cultures of Anemia salina and documented the subsequent distribution of label. We found that both the growth rates and the final morphological state varied logarithmically with food supply. Heterogeneous feeding had a marked effect on colony morphology, with a sharp boundary in polyp number, stolon density, and polyp size forming at the fed-unfed interface. The distribution of fluorescence was correlated with sites of colony growth. These results confirm and extend early work on the priority of growth zones in colonial hydroids, and present new challenges for understanding the relationship among energy metabolism, gastrovascular circulation, and colony form.
3227079|After feeding, polyps of colonial hydroids contract regularly, dispersing food throughout the colony via the gastrovascular fluid. Such contractions may trigger signaling pathways that allow colonies to grow in an adaptive manner, i.e., to initiate development of more polyps in food-rich areas and to suppress polyp development in food-poor areas. In this context, we investigated the structure and potential signaling of the junction between polyps and stolons in colonies of the hydroid Podocoryna carnea. Using transmission electron microscopy, we found that the density of mitochondrion-rich epitheliomuscular cells was low in polyp and stolon tissues except at or near the polyp-stolon junction, where many of these mitochondrion-rich cells occur in ectodermal tissue. In vivo fluorescence microscopy suggests that these mitochondria are a principal source of the metabolic signals of the colony. Both native fluorescence of NAD(p)h and fluorescence from peroxides (visualized with H
10.2307/3226924|In the literature, 69 references altogether have reported 76 predators on holothurians. In terms of the number of predatory species, the most important predators are fishes (26 species), seastars (19 species), and crustaceans (17 species). Seastars are the predators most often cited as regularly ingesting large quantities of holothurians. Toxicity seems to be an effective defense against a generalized predator but, against a specialist on holothurians, escape by swimming movements or shedding of a piece of body wall are the only behaviors that occasionally end with a successful escape. Escape behaviors may be a factor in providing the apparent size refuge from predators. Impacts of predators on holothurian populations have rarely been reported or evaluated, and predation on the earliest life stage is unknown.
4621921|Morphological criteria defining the Nudipleura and sister group relationships among the three nudipleuran subgroups (pleurobranchoideans, anthobranch nudibranchs, and cladobranch nudibranchs) have been controversial. Analysis of larval stages may help resolve these uncertainties by identifying additional phylogenetically informative characters, but existing information on pleurobranchoidean larvae is meager. We studied larval development and metamorphosis of the pleurobranchoidean Berthella californica using histological sections, scanning and transmission electron microscopy, and immunolabeling of neurons within the larval apical ganglion. We also provide comparative data on other nudipleuran larvae that may be useful for phylogenetic reconstruction. Berthella californica fills a previously unoccupied place within an evolutionary scenario that derives nudibranchs from pleurobranchoideans, two groups in which the larval mantle fold forms the post-metamorphic notum (dorsal epidermis). In B. californica, reflection of the mantle fold epithelium to form the notum begins at metamorphosis, as also occurs in nudibranchs, whereas mantle reflection in other pleurobranchoideans begins well before metamorphosis. Dissolution of overgrown shell walls inside the protoconch and formation of the post-metamorphic notum from the inner epithelium of the larval mantle fold may be synapomorphies of the Nudipleura. The larval shell in B. californica is additionally noteworthy because it acquires bilateral symmetry later in development, which is very unusual among larval opisthobranchs. We demonstrate an osphradium in the larvae of two pleurobranchoideans and one anthobranch nudibranch, although adults lack this trait. We also identified an autapomorphy of cladobranch nudibranchs in the form of five ampullary neurons within the larval apical ganglion, whereas other planktotrophic opisthobranch larvae have only four of these neurons. Although our data provide morphological criteria defining both the Nudipleura and the cladobranch nudibranchs, they are insufficient to resolve sister group relationships within the Nudipleura.
4621924| Glacial cycles and other climatic events have been widely invoked as factors promoting divergence, secondary contact, and hybridization between populations of terrestrial organisms, but the origin and fate of secondary contact in the sea is much less well understood. We studied the distribution of morphological and genetic variation in a northwest Atlantic zone of secondary contact between congeneric sea stars of Asterias that probably separated after the Pliocene as part of the trans-Arctic interchange. These species have similar reproductive biology and can hybridize in the laboratory. However, multivariate analysis of morphological traits scored from sea stars inside and outside the zone of secondary contact clearly indicated two clusters of phenotypes that corresponded to the two taxonomic species. A quantitative analysis of this clustering pattern did not support the hypothesis of a third grouping that might correspond to intermediate hybrid phenotypes. Known F hybrids from laboratory matings grouped with one of the two taxonomic species. However, a survey of mtDNA sequence variation clearly indicated that 13% of individuals of one species (Asterias forbesi) are descendants of hybridization events that resulted in introgression of haplotypes of Asterias rubens into populations of A. forbesi. We conclude that morphological phenotypes are inadequate to identify hybrids of Asterias and their descendants, and that hybridization and introgression might be common in this secondary contact zone. 
3227195|We studied the effects of brackish water on larval attachment, events of metamorphosis, and juvenile mortality in three colonial ascidian species that live in a Florida coastal lagoon. Eudistoma olivaceum and Eudistoma hepaticum are restricted in their adult distribution to areas of relatively high and constant salinity near inlets, whereas Ecteinascidia turbinata extends more than 20 km into the Indian River, where salinity can be much more variable. In all three species, metamorphosis proceeded more quickly at 33 ppt than at lower salinities. The thresholds for successful metamorphosis differed among species in a manner that corresponded to the adult distributions, with E. turbinata being capable of completing metamorphosis at salinities as low as 22 ppt, E. hepaticum as low as 24 ppt, and E. olivaceum as low as 26 ppt. Larvae of both Eudistoma species delayed settlement in very low salinity water, whereas those of E. turbinata settled very quickly, then failed to complete metamorphosis. Juvenile mortality at salinities lower than 22 ppt was 100% for all three species. Survival in salinities higher than 22 ppt was strongly correlated with salinity in E. olivaceum and E. hepaticum, but not E. turbinata.
3227154|The problem of similarity is one of explaining the causes of striking resemblances between patterns and architectural themes that recur in organisms at various scales of biological organization. Classical explanations that have considered only the alternatives of homology and analogy overlook similarities of form that are primarily a consequence of fabrication, conveying little information about evolutionary relationships or functional role. When viewed at successively higher magnifications and when mapped onto a phylogeny, patterns of delicate cancellate microsculpture and granular microprotuberances on the surfaces of larval shells of marine gastropods fail to meet the predictions of exclusively historical or exclusively functional explanations, but are shown to be rich in fabricational information. Similar patterns suggest that early biomineralization of the initial organic shell is under weaker biological control than the processes that modulate assembly of the multi-layered, hierarchically-organized composite materials of the adult shell. Some patterns suggest remote biomineralization, without direct influence of living tissue. Scanning electron microscopy of larval shell features reveals previously undetected variation on basic themes that may have implications for the traditional disciplines of systematics, functional morphology, and fabricational morphology. The integration of the approaches of the traditional divisions of biology is required for full explanation of similarity and to generate a unified set of principles for the analysis of form in living and fossil organisms.
3701445|Species-level identification is difficult in the symbiotic bivalve-inhabiting hydrozoans of the genus Eugymnanthea (Cnidaria, Hydrozoa). Morphological differences are detected only in the adult medusoid stage. Eugymnanthea is known only from the Mediterranean and the western Pacific, and doubt persists over whether the two localities are inhabited by different species. Because the bivalve host, Mytilus galloprovincialis, is thought to have been introduced by humans from the Mediterranean to the western Pacific, there has been speculation that the Mediterranean Eugymnanthea was also introduced along with its host. Here, we evaluate the species status of the two hydrozoan forms with breeding experiments, morphology, and two recently developed tools for discrimination: a mesoglea cell adhesion and spreading test, and 16S rDNA comparison. Reciprocal crosses of the two forms failed to produce normal offspring, providing evidence that they are indeed different species according to the biological species concept, and suggesting that the Pacific form is not an invasion of the Mediterranean form. The tissue-grafting test failed to distinguish between the two forms, while the morphological and genetic evidence corroborated the breeding results.
10.2307/3227051|In hermaphrodites, the cost of sexuality can favor the spread of parthenogenesis in two ways. First, it can promote higher female fecundity in parthenogens that have reduced allocation to the male function. Second, if parthenogens have retained a fertile male function, they can spread genes for parthenogenesis into a coexisting sexual population. We present evidence for both effects in a natural population of the flatworm Schmidtea polychroa. Parthenogens, which have a reduced male function, had 42% higher female fecundity than coexisting sexuals. New, presumably parthenogenetic, triploids arose out of the diploid sexual population at a frequency of 1.3%, probably as a result of gene flow from parthenogens to sexuals. However, we could also identify a strong compensating fitness benefit for sexuals: they had substantially higher female fertility than coexisting parthenogens, both in terms of cocoon fertility (93% and 74% respectively) and offspring per fertile cocoon (3.6 and 2.8 respectively).
10.2307/3226932|The technique of endoscopic examination and video-image analysis has allowed for in vivo observations of adult, bivalve molluscs and has led to a more accurate understanding of suspension-feeding processes in these animals. Several mechanisms, however, needed to be examined further. For example, the process by which particles are captured by the ctenidia remained unclear, and current models of this process did not adequately explain in vivo observations of capture events. In addition, the kinematics of particle processing by the labial palps and mode of particle ingestion have remained undefined. In this study I use results from endoscopic observations of nine species of bivalves to provide an integrated description of suspension feeding. These observations reveal that particle feeding is accomplished by both mucociliary and hydrodynamic mechanisms that often act simultaneously on the pallial organs. I introduce a model of particle capture that focuses on the ctenidial filament as the capture unit, unlike previous work that emphasized the laterofrontal cilia or cirri. The model is consistent with accepted fluid dynamic principles. In vivo observations in bivalves indicate that the suspension-feeding complex as a whole is, functionally, more than merely the sum of its parts.
10.2307/3226985|Secondary sex characters appear in many heterotardigrades and a limited number of species of eutardigrades. In the eutardigrades Milnesium tardigradum and Pseudobiotus megalonyx, males are considered to always have modified claws on the first pair of legs; the basal branch of both claws in Milnesium and of the inner claw in Pseudobiotus is shaped like a robust hook. We examined one gonochoristic population of both Milnesium tardigradum and of Pseudobiotus megalonyx to evaluate the association of the modified claws with the presence of male germ cells in the testis. Three additional populations of Milnesium tardigradum were examined to provide data on the frequency of the modified claw among all individuals. In both species, molting animals were found with normal claws on the front legs of the old cuticle and modified claws on the front legs of the new cuticle. Examination of the gonad revealed that both species may have males with and without the modified claws. The appearance of the modified claw probably occurs at the last molt, and is used in mating when the male attaches to the female during copulation. Since this secondary sex character is not always present during the life of the tardigrade, but appears after a molt, a sex ratio determined only by the presence of the modified claw is not valid.
10.2307/3226863|The most basal clades of gastropods may lack feeding larval stages in all surviving species, although many species have planktonic veliger larvae with a preoral (prototrochal) band of cilia for locomotion. We examined subvelar cilia and currents for comparison with feeding larvae of other gastropods. The larvae represented three major groups of archaeogastropod grade: the lottiid limpets Lottia pelta and Tectura scutum, the fissurellid limpet Diodora aspera, and the trochid Calliostoma ligatum. Subvelar cilia immediately adjacent to the prototroch were longer than those farther posterior. Subvelar currents were from posterior to anterior along dorsal areas of the velum and from anterior to posterior along ventral areas of the velum. These observed particle paths and inferred directions of beat of subvelar cilia suggest a cleansing function, with currents exiting the mantle cavity in an anterior direction dorsally and laterally and moving posteriorly to join ciliary currents along the foot ventrally. Only in C. ligatum were particles sometimes transported in the dorsal to ventral direction just below the prototrochal band and then only when the prototrochal cilia were arrested. Particles were not captured between bands of cilia with opposed ciliary beat, transported toward the mouth in a ciliated food groove, or ingested by the archaeogastropod veligers, whereas these events were observed easily in other gastropod veligers. Fluorescence of algae was absent in guts of the archaeogastropod veligers exposed to phytoplankton but present in guts of other gastropod veligers. These observations support the hypothesis that veligers of the Patellogastropoda and Vetigastropoda do not feed and that the subvelar cilia serve other functions. If capacity to feed has been lost, subvelar ciliation has been modified for other functions, perhaps cleansing. If the ciliation represents the ancestral condition, then ciliation for cleansing may have been modified for feeding.
3227249|Access to the ventral nerve cord in living specimens of Lumbriculus variegatus, an aquatic oligochaete, is normally impossible because surgical invasion induces segmental autotomy (self-fragmentation). We show here that nicotine is a powerful paralytic agent that reversibly immobilizes worms, blocks segmental autotomy, and allows experimental access to the nerve cord. Using nicotine-treated worms, we transected the ventral nerve cord and used non-invasive electrophysiological recordings and behavioral analyses to characterize the functional recovery of giant nerve fibers and other reflex pathways. Initially, after transection, medial giant fiber (MGF) and lateral giant fiber (LGF) spikes conducted up to, but not across, the transection site. Reestablishment of MGF and LGF through-conduction across the transection site occurred as early as 10 h (usually by 20 h) after transection. Analyses of non-giant-mediated behavioral responses (i.e., helical swimming and body reversal) were also made following nerve cord transection. Immediately after transection, functional reorganization of touch-evoked locomotor reflexes occurred, so that the two portions of the worm anterior and posterior to the transection site were independently capable of helical swimming and body reversal responses. Similar reorganization of responses occurred in amputated body fragments. Reversion back to the original whole-body pattern of swimming and reversal occurred as early as 8 h after transection. Thus, functional restoration of the non-giant central pathways appeared slightly faster than giant fiber pathways. The results demonstrate the remarkable plasticity of locomotor reflex behaviors immediately after nerve cord transection or segment amputation. They also demonstrate the exceptional speed and specificity of regeneration of the central pathways that mediate locomotor reflexes.
3227216|Androdioecy is a rare form of mating system in which species comprise males and hermaphrodites. One recently described case of androdioecy is the freshwater crustacean Eulimnadia texana. A mathematical model of the mating system of this shrimp suggests that males and hermaphrodites should only coexist under limited circumstances. One possible factor not considered in this model would extend the conditions for coexistence: the possibility of sperm storage in the hermaphrodites. Here we use genetically marked matings between males and hermaphrodites to determine if hermaphrodites can store male sperms. Eggs were collected from hermaphrodites both in the presence of a male and after the male was removed. A total of 30 of these matings had successful hatches, but only 14 of these 30 could be used to test for sperm storage. In these 14 cases, an average of 35% of the eggs were outcrossed when males were present, but only 0.4% were outcrossed after males were removed. Thus, sperm storage by hermaphrodites was an insignificant factor in the production of offspring. These data suggest that sperm storage cannot help explain the coexistence of males and hermaphrodites in natural populations of this crustacean.
23016260|Pachechinus bajulus is an endemic Australian sea urchin with an unusual mode of brooded larval development. We used mitochondrial and nuclear gene sequences to estimate the phylogenetic relationships among Pachechinus and other Echinometridae, including well-studied species of Heliocidaris with planktonic development. We found strong evidence for the planktotrophic species Heliocidaris tuberculata as the sister group to a clade of three closely related species in which development is known (Heliocidaris erythrogramma, P. bajulus) or suspected (Pachechinus australiae) to be lecithotrophic. Clade support values and likelihood ratio tests rejected monophyly of Heliocidaris species. The sister group to H. erythrogramma is most likely the two Pachechinus species. We resolve the paraphyly problem by reassigning the Pachechinus species to the genus Heliocidaris (the senior synonym), which has six extant species including Heliocidaris australiae and Heliocidaris bajulus. The phylogeny has potentially important implications for comparative studies of developmental morphology and genetics that have assumed a close sister-group relationship between H. erythrogramma and H. tuberculata, and highlights the need for such data from H. bajulus and other Heliocidaris species.
3701498| The parasitic mite Riccardoella limacum sucks blood in the lung of its host, the land snail Arianta arbustorum. The infection of various host populations was examined in Switzerland. In a lowland snail population, prevalence of infection did not vary among seasons. However, intensity of mite infection in dissected individuals of A. arbustorum was high in autumn, but low in winter and spring when 100 mite eggs were found attached to the lung epithelium. A novel, non-invasive parasite screening method was used to estimate the number of mites on living host snails. An analysis of repeatability revealed that 92.9% of the snails were correctly classified as infected or non-infected with this non-invasive method. Prevalence of mite infection was examined in 997 adults of A. arbustorum from 11 natural populations distributed over an altitudinal gradient ranging 335-2360 m. No infected snails were found in 7 populations, while in the remaining 4 populations the prevalence of mite infection ranged 45.8-77.8%. Intensity of infection also differed among the 4 host populations. No geographic pattern in prevalence of infection was found. However, parasitic mites did not occur in snail populations situated at elevations of 1290 m or higher. A possible explanation for this finding could be that the host's hibernation period may be too long at high elevations for mites and their eggs to survive. At low elevations, other factors may affect the presence of R. limacum in the lung of A. arbustorum. 
10.2307/3227057|In contrast to the Annelida, no trace of the developing coelomic cavities persists in the body cavity of postembryonal stages of Onychophora and Euarthropoda; instead, a primary body cavity or haemocoel is characteristic for these stages. Transitory coelomic cavities, which appear in certain developmental stages of arthropods, are generally regarded as recapitulation of paired and segmental coelomic cavities of the common ancestor of annelids and arthropods. If this is true, a specific organization of these cavities with respect to the annelid coelom is to be expected. In order to test this assumption, the transitory coelomic cavities of the onychophoran Epiperipatus biolleyi are investigated ultrastructurally and compared with data on the coelomogenesis of the polychaetous annelids Ophelia rathkei, Spirorbis spirorbis, and Pectinaria koreni. The somatic wall of the transitory coelom of Epiperipatus biolleyi is thicker than the visceral (splanchnic) wall; the lining cells are apically connected by adhaerens junctions and possess a rudimentary cilium, and are otherwise largely undifferentiated. The latter observation is clearly in contrast to comparably differentiated coelomic cavities in annelids. During further development the haemocoel is formed in Epiperipatus biolleyi. A survey of the older literature reveals that in the Onychophora the haemocoel is formed by fusing interstices within the subepidermal and peri-intestinal matrix, and not by a fusion of such interstices and the coelomic cavities.
3227273|In contrast to marine bryozoans, the lophophore structure and the ciliary filterfeeding mechanism in freshwater bryozoans have so far been only poorly described. Specimens of the phylactolaemate bryozoan Plumatella repens were studied to clarify the tentacular ciliary structures and the particle capture mechanism. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the tentacles of the lophophore have a frontal band of densely packed cilia, and on each side a zigzag row of laterofrontal cilia and a band of lateral cilia. Phalloidin-linked fluorescent dye showed no sign of muscular tissue within the tentacles. Video microscopy was used to describe basic characteristics of particle capture. Suspended particles in the incoming water flow, set up by the lateral 'pump' cilia on the tentacles, approach the tentacles with a velocity of 1-2 mm s
3701503|The terrestrial hermit crab Coenobita compressus H. Milne Edwards undergoes larval development in the sea and then moves to land as a megalopa, where it metamorphoses and remains for the rest of its life. As a small organism (generally < 3 mg), in a body adapted for pelagic life, the megalopa must avoid desiccating in air to make a successful sea-to-land transition. In this study, I measured rates of water loss in 1 to 26-day-old megalopae without mollusk shells to determine if there is an improvement in desiccation resistance with age. I also exposed 26-day-old megalopae with or without shells to different relative-humidity conditions for 1 h to determine if shells worn by megalopae allow them to function in air that is not fully saturated. Megalopae without shells did not survive exposure to a relative humidity (RH) of less than 99%, while those with shells survived 52% RH. Older megalopae lost water more slowly than younger ones. However, the amount of body water explained more of the variation in water-loss rate than age; individuals with smaller body-water masses showed lower rates of absolute water loss. Though megalopae of C. compressus become less water permeable as they approach metamorphosis on land, most of their ability to avoid desiccation comes from the shell. Shell-wearing can be considered a pre-adaptation to a terrestrial life-style because shell-wearing behavior predates land invasion in hermit crabs, and desiccation-proofing in air is a novel function for shells.
10.2307/3226862|The ultrastructural features of the ovary and oogenesis have been examined in the neritid gastropod Bathynerita naticoidea, a bathyal species endemic to oil and gas seeps in the Gulf of Mexico. This is the first ultrastructural study of vitellogenesis in any archaeogastropod. The ovary is an acinous organ containing oocytes in all stages of oogenesis. Oocytes are closely associated with hypertrophic follicle cells that may play a role in oocyte nutrition. Vitellogenesis is a complex process involving both autosynthetic and heterosynthetic pathways that contribute to the formation of at least three types of yolk bodies. Type I yolk bodies appear to be synthesized autosynthetically through the combined efforts of the Golgi complex and rough endoplasmic reticulum. Type II yolk bodies have an uncertain origin but share many ultrastructural characteristics with mitochondria, suggesting that they may be derived from the latter organelles. Type III yolk bodies appear to form through the heterosynthetic uptake of extra-oocytic precursors via receptor-mediated endocytosis. Oocytes also accumulate lipid droplets and glycogen granules. Vitellogenesis in this species shows similarities with that described previously in a caenogastropod and some heterobranch (opisthobranchs and pulmonates) species.
4621905|The germinal epithelium of sea urchin gonads contains two interdependent populations of cells: somatic cells called nutritive phagocytes (NPs) and germ cells-ovarian and testicular gonial cells and their derivatives, gametocytes and gametes. Annually, NPs vary their structure and function to produce a changing microenvironment for germ cells during gametogenesis and after spawning. Here, we describe seasonal changes in the NPs as they interact with germ cells during successive gametogenic stages in both sexes of the green sea urchin, Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis. Monthly samples were collected from the Gulf of Maine at a depth of 10m and analyzed with light microscopy and stereology. Shorter day length and falling seawater temperatures were correlated with nutrient mobilization from NPs, initiation of gonial cell mitosis, and subsequent gametogenesis. During gametogenesis, NPs in both sexes were depleted of nutrients and eventually phagocytize residual ova or spermatozoa. Observations from this study are important for understanding both the cellular aspects of the reproductive biology of sea urchins and those environmental factors that affect the onset and progress of gametogenesis.
10.2307/3226930|Euchaeta rimana, a pelagic marine copepod, roams a 3-dimensional environment and its antennular setal sensors are oriented to detect water-borne signals in 3 dimensions. When the copepod moves through water or moves water around itself, it creates a fluid disturbance distinct from the ambient fluid motion. As it swims and hovers, the copepod's laminar feeding current takes the unstable nature of small-scale turbulence, organizes it, and makes the local domain a familiar territory within which signals can be specified in time and space. The streamlines betray both the 3-dimensional spatial location (x, y, z) as well as the time (t) separating a signal caught in the feeding current and the copepod receptor-giving the copepod early warning of the approach of a prey, predator, or mate. The copepod reduces the complexity of its environment by fixing information from a turbulent field into a simpler, more defined laminar field. We quantitatively analysed small-scale fluid deformations created by copepods to document the strength of the signal. Physiological and behavioral tests confirm (a) that these disturbances are relevant signals transmitting information between zooplankters and (b) that hydrodynamically conspicuous structures, such as feeding currents, wakes, and vibrations, elicit specific responses from copepods. Since fluid mechanical signals do elicit responses, copepods shape their fluid motion to advertise or to conceal their hydrodynamic presence. When swimming, a copepod barely leaves a trace in the water; the animal generates its flow and advances into the area from which the water is taken, covering up its tracks with the velocity gradient it creates around itself. When escaping, it sheds conspicuous vortices. Prey caught in a flow field expose their location by hopping. These escape hops shed jet-like wakes detected by copepod mechanoreceptors. Copepods recognize the wakes and respond adaptively.
40206233|Animal genitalia are often complex and thought to vary little within species but differ between closely related species making them useful as primary characters in species diagnosis. Spiders are no exception, with nearly all of the 40,462 (at the time of this writing) described species differentiated by genitalic characteristics. However, in some cases, the genitalia of putative species are not uniform, but rather vary within species. When intraspecific variation overlaps interspecific variation, it can be difficult (if not impossible) to place a name on a specimen. The quantification of shape variation in genitalia has not often been attempted, probably because until recently it was not a methodologically and computationally simple process. In the two currently recognized species of the spider genus Homalonychus, genitalic variation is rampant in both male and female structures, with some parts of the genitalia (e.g., the retrolateral tibial apophysis) differing in each specimen examined. In this study, geometric morphometric analysis employing landmark data is used to quantify both intra- and interspecific variation in this genus. The large amount of variation is condensed into two or three groups depending on the structures examined, and these groups correspond to either the two species or to previously established mitochondrial DNA clades within one of the species. The results also show that analyses of female structures do not separate the groups as readily as the analyses of the male structures. The large amount of variation present in some structures is not correlated with geography or population genetic structure.
10.2307/3227035|The cheilostome bryozoan Fenestrulina rugula is a major component of the encrusting fauna of physically disturbed shallow water habitats in Antarctica. On rocks collected from Rothera Point, Adelaide Island, F. rugula was the dominant occupier of space (88% of all bryozoans, 76% of all fauna), though spirorbid polychaetes showed more colonisation events per unit area. Growth rate was relatively rapid in comparison with other polar bryozoans, but slower than temperate or tropical species. In fully reproductive colonies almost 80% of zooids carried ovicells. Colonies whose growth brought them into contact with other encrusting fauna (usually another colony of F. rugula) produced smaller zooids and initiated ovicell production earlier than unrestrained colonies. Analysis of overgrowth interactions showed that F. rugula was a relatively poor competitor compared with other encrusting bryozoans, and most within-species interactions were indeterminate. Population mortality was relatively high, averaging 89% per annum, although not as high as in some other species from ephemeral habitats. F. rugula is thus a typical early coloniser in being relatively fast-growing, quick to mature, short-lived and a relatively poor competitor. The population dynamics and ecology of this assemblage dominant appear to have been influenced primarily by the ephemeral nature of its habitat.
40206204|Crustaceans in the class Branchiopoda exhibit a wide range of breeding systems, including dioecy (gonochorism), androdioecy, parthenogenesis, cyclic parthenogenesis, and hermaphroditism. The largest subgroup of the Branchiopods, the Diplostraca, is reported to encompass all five of these breeding systems. However, many of these reports are based primarily on simple observations of sex ratios in natural populations. Herein we report the beginnings of a more rigorous approach to breeding system determination in the Diplostraca, starting with the family Limnadiidae. We combine measurements of sex ratio, offspring rearings, and behavior to identify three breeding systems within the Limnadiidae: dioecy, androdioecy, and selfing hermaphroditism. To date, no instances of parthenogenetic reproduction have been identified in this family. Comparisons of breeding system determination via simple population sex ratios with our more controlled studies show that simple sex ratios can be useful when these sex ratios are ~ 50% males (=dioecy) or 5-30% males (androdioecy). However, population sex ratios of 0-5% males or 35-45% males necessitate further investigation because estimates in these ranges cannot distinguish selfing hermaphroditism from androdioecy or androdioecy from dioecy, respectively. We conclude by noting that the genetic sex-determining system outlined for one of these limnadiid species, Eulimnadia texana, provides a parsimonious framework to describe the evolution of the three breeding systems observed within the Limnadiidae.
10.2307/3226996|Electron microscopical studies of sperms and spermiogenesis, and of the pigment-cup eyes of four species of Pogaina (suecica, natans, kinnei, and an undescribed species) revealed features common to the genus, as well as intrageneric variation. In common with many other free-living platyhelminths, sperms of these Pogaina spp. are filiform and biflagellate and lack an acrosome. Sperm characters distinctive to the genus include an arching formation over flagella during development, a spiralling ridge on the anterior sperm projection, globular condensations in the nucleus, and a tendency for the two flagella to fuse with one another. In sperms of the two sympatric species P. natans and P. kinnei the paired flagella are joined by a double bridge structure. The eyes of the four species have massive lens elements of mitochondrial origin, connected to the pigment cell by cytoplasmic bridges. The number of these elements, however, varies between species, as does the number of photoreceptor sensory cells. Sperm data suggest that P. natans and P. kinnei are the most closely related, while P. suecica may be a sister taxon to the other three. Sperm and eye data reveal substantial variability within the genus and emphasize the need for taxonomic depth in ultrastructural studies to inform cladistic phylogenetic analyses.
4621902|Serpulidae encompasses polychaete species whose members have fused anterior ends bearing a tentacular crown, a heteronomous segmented body with a thorax and abdomen, and "chaetal inversion" between the two tagmata. The sessile filter-feeding organisms live in self-built, coiled, calcareous tubes on algae. The F-actin muscular subset of Spirorbis cf. spirorbis was stained with phalloidin and three-dimensionally reconstructed by means of cLSM, aiming to investigate (1) how the tentacular crown is organized and moved, (2) whether the internal structures, e.g., musculature, follow the thorax-abdomen inversion, and (3) whether circular muscles are present in serpulids. The third aim is by reason of recent investigations suggesting that lack of circular muscle fibers may be a common situation rather than a rare variation in polychaetes. In this manner, this article is part of a comparative evaluation of polychaete muscle systems. We found that longitudinal muscles of the body wall project into the tentacular crown, and that radioli and pinnulae possess three muscle types each, facilitating their great mobility. Operculum, collar, and a pair of unidentified organs possess distinct F-actin filaments. The trunk is mainly moved by five longitudinal muscle strands, most obvious in the abdomen: two dorsal, two ventral, and an unpaired ventromedian one, out of which the dorsal ones are the strongest. In anterior regions, the two dorsal strands form a single continuous layer; the separated strands lessen posteriorly. Solitary transverse fibers are located ventrally in the middle of each segment, stretching between longitudinal muscles and coelomic lining laterally, where they end. Peripheral and central dorsoventral muscles, two pairs per segment each, are present. Circular fibers as well as bracing muscles were not detected. The results indicate that the musculature does not follow the thorax-abdomen inversion and Serpulidae represents the 15th polychaete taxon in which circular fibers are totally missing.
40206212|We examined the soft tissues of live freshwater mussels, Eastern elliptio Elliptio complanata, via magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), acquiring data with a widely available human whole-body MRI system. Anatomical features depicted in the profile images included the foot, stomach, intestine, anterior and posterior adductor muscles, and pericardial cavity. Noteworthy observations on soft tissue morphology included a concentration of lipids at the most posterior aspect of the foot, the presence of hemolymph-filled fissures in the posterior adductor muscle, the presence of a relatively large hemolymph-filled sinus adjacent to the posterior adductor muscle (at the ventral-anterior aspect), and segmentation of the intestine (a diagnostic description not reported previously in Unionidae). Relatively little is known about the basic biology and ecological physiology of freshwater mussels. Traditional approaches for studying anatomy and tissue processes, and for measuring sub-lethal physiological stress, are destructive or invasive. Our study, the first to evaluate freshwater mussel soft tissues by MRI, clarifies the body plan of unionid mussels and demonstrates the efficacy of this technology for in vivo evaluation of the structure, function, and integrity of mussel soft tissues.
10.2307/3226864|Nudibranch molluscs typically are semelparous, undergoing a single period of repeated spawning, and these opisthobranchs generally are categorized as obligately cross-fertilizing simultaneous hermaphrodites. The tropical corallivorous aeolid nudibranch Phestilla sibogae has a sub-annual life cycle, with individuals cycling from egg to egg in ~40 d and adults commonly attaining 30-40 mm in body length (~800-1700 mg live weight). Spawning (egg laying) may commence at 15-25 mm length (~90-480 mg). In a preliminary experiment, 22 individuals from batch cultures were paired at sizes expected to be pre-reproductive (5-7 mm; 3-8 mg) and the isolated couples further reared to first spawning. Larvae from each pair's first egg mass were cultured and juveniles reared to sizes at which they also could be typed electrophoretically. Comparisons between the parental and offspring genotypes for up to three allozyme loci revealed that, for 6 of the 11 pairings, certain offspring did not conform to parental genotypes: in total, 18% of all offspring typed were non-conforming, ranging up to 75% in one pair. Evidently P. sibogae can become inseminated at very small sizes, and may store sperm, despite the opportunity for continued and repeated copulation with a large adult partner. The first received allosperm may display high levels of fertilization success. Three further experiments involved the batch culture of post-larval juveniles and the subsequent isolation of individuals at varying sizes and ages. These latter experiments confirmed that P. sibogae can inseminate, and be inseminated, at extremely small sizes (~5-8 mg) and well in advance of their ability to lay fertile eggs. The relevance of sperm competition models to these data is discussed in the context of apparent first-partner precedence.
3227245|Neurocalcin is a calcium-binding protein that has been localized in neural and non-neural tissues of vertebrates, the arthropod Drosophila melanogaster, and in juveniles and adults of the mollusc Aplysia californica. We examine the distribution of neurocalcin in pre-hatching stages of the molluscs A. californica and Lymnaea stagnalis to elucidate where this calcium-binding protein functions in early development, as well as to localize novel neuronal populations in early stages of ontogeny. Aplysia neurocalcin (ApNc)-like immunoreactivity was localized in shell-secreting cells in embryonic stages of both A. californica and L. stagnalis. In A. californica, central and anterior regions of the embryo were diffusely labeled, as were a few identifiable neurons in veliger stages. On the other hand, in L. stagnalis, ApNc-like immunoreactivity was clearly detected in cells and fibers in the same locations as neuronal elements that have been previously identified very early in development and throughout the embryonic period using techniques to localize specific transmitters and peptides. Furthermore, additional neurons are also identified with anti- ApNc in this species. Establishing the distribution of neurocalcin-like proteins in embryonic stages of these two molluscs provides the first step to understanding the role of such proteins during development.
3227176|We describe the genital system of the aeolid nudibranch gastropod Aeolidiella glauca as a basis for our ongoing analysis of the mating system of this hermaphroditic species. In addition we give a short account of its mating behavior. A. glauca has an androdiaulic genital system with a proximally situated semiserial seminal receptacle. There is no bursa copulatrix. After fertilization, eggs pass through six glands, i.e., the capsule gland and the female gland mass which is comprised of five histologically differentiated parts. The prostate is a long, glandular tube. The everted, unarmed penis is very large and bears a series of 3-4 hook-shaped lobes consisting only of a simple, ciliated epithelium on its ventral side. Their function is unknown. After courtship, which involves moving in circles followed by resting in a head-to-head position, reciprocally touching each other with the tentacles, the slugs glide into a position where the everted genital atria are in contact. The huge penes are protruded simultaneously shortly after this contact occurs. Each animal strokes its partner's back with the penis and deposits a spermatophore of undetermined shape onto the partner's notum. Sperm enter the recipient through histolysis. How the sperm find their way to the seminal receptable is not known.
10.2307/3226879|The structure of the sperm storage organs found in females of the fabriciin sabellid species Manayunkia aestuarina and Fabricia stellaris is described. In both species, adult females have a pair of prostomial spermathecae, lying anterior and dorsal to the buccal opening, in the base of the radiolar crown. The spermathecae are epidermal structures; each ends blindly with a single opening into the surrounding water. In each spermatheca of M. aestuarina, a short duct from the narrow opening extends into the larger lumen of the ellipsoid spermathecal sac. The spermathecal cells have large nuclei and numerous dark (and electron-dense) granules. No cilia are present in any part of the spermathecae. The spermathecae are either completely empty, or contain 25-50 sperm. The spermathecae of F. stellaris are more complex than those of M. aestuarina and have three distinct regions. They closely resemble spermathecae previously described from another fabriciin, Parafabricia ventricingulata. The opening into each spermatheca leads ventrally into a ciliated chamber, or atrium, which extends posteriorly and laterally into the base of the radioles. The atrium terminates at the connecting piece which in turn leads to the heavily pigmented, but non-ciliated, sperm receptacle. The sperm receptacle is the most posterior region of each spermatheca and is dorsal to the connecting piece and atrium. Several hundred sperm can be found in each receptacle of F. stellaris. Comparing these spermathecae with those of other fabriciins, I conclude that sperm storage structures and mechanisms will provide useful characters in the systematics of the Fabriciinae.
3701469|Here we report the effect of food concentration on the recovery from anhydrobiosis of a bdelloid rotifer, Macrotrachela quadricornifera. Cohorts were either starved, or fed high or low concentrations of food, before being dried and their subsequent recovery rates determined. The rotifers starved for 3 d before anhydrobiosis recovered in significantly higher proportion, and those fed lower food concentration recovered better than those fed higher food concentration. In addition, starvation did not decrease the recovery of other bdelloid species (Philodina roseola and Adineta sp.1) which were either fed or starved before anhydrobiosis. These results suggest that a successful recovery from anhydrobiosis is not dependent on prior resource level supplied to the bdelloids. However, the lack of resources might not be the only factor in a successful recovery from anhydrobiosis. Observations using scanning electron microscopy of fed individuals of M. quadricornifera entering anhydrobiosis showed that some food remained in the digestive tract. Thus, we propose that the negative effect of rich food may be due to a purely mechanical effect and may be interfering with a proper folding of the rotifer body at the onset of anhydrobiosis. This contribution results from studies carried out in preparation for biological experiments scheduled on the International Space Station (ISS).
10.2307/3227022| The ascidian Protostyela longicauda broods larvae that have a unique, non-locomotory tail. In hatched larvae, the tail is a simple strand of tunic without cellular components or external fins, extremely elongated and anteriorly directed. Before hatching, the tail consists of a mass of secretory cells that release fibrillar material to the tunic. Notochord, neural tube, and muscle cells are absent, but presumptive chordal cells are found at earlier embryonic stages. The anterior part of the trunk bears three conical adhesive papillae and five pairs of ampullae, which elongate at metamorphosis. The tunic of the trunk and tail is sticky from the first moment after hatching and adheres readily to any object; the papillae make contact later. This species attaches to algal fronds in wave-swept, rocky intertidal habitats. Field observations on adult populations revealed a strongly aggregated, philopatric pattern of distribution, as well as within-patch patterns of colonization of some algal species as substrate. Restricted dispersal of short-lived larvae in these communities diminishes the risk of being swept away and is consistent with the aggregated pattern found. We suggest that, upon release of the larva, the sticky tail rapidly becomes entangled with algae, thereby allowing the papillae, oriented at about 30 to the tail, to contact the substrate and achieve permanent fixation. We therefore interpret these non-swimming larvae as facilitating philopatry. 
3227096|Free-swimming trophonts of a sessiline peritrich ciliate were discovered in plankton samples from the Rhode River, Maryland, and main-stem Chesapeake Bay. Cultures revealed that the species comprises both free trophonts that swim with their peristomial cilia and sessile trophonts that attach to substrates with a contractile, helically-twisted stalk. Trophonts with a short, rigid stalk or no definite stalk also were seen in culture. Binary fission of free-swimming trophonts usually produced a pair of trophonts attached scopula to scopula by a short, rigid stalk. These persisted for some time as distinctive, spinning doublets before their stalks broke and they separated. Binary fission of free-swimming trophonts also yielded trophont-telotroch pairs that stayed together for only a short time. Telotrochs from these pairs were presumably the source of attached trophonts. Conjugation occurred in both free and attached trophonts. Formation of microconjugants involved at least 2 successive divisions of a trophont. Possession of a helically-twisted, contractile stalk placed the peritrich in the family Vorticellidae, but its unique combination of life-cycle stages marks it as a new genus and species, Planeticovorticella finleyi. The morphology and life cycle of P. finleyi raise questions about the present classification of sessiline peritrichs and suggest that it may be at least partly artificial. Stalkless planktonic peritrichs that swim with their oral cilia as do trophonts of P. finleyi may have evolved from sessile ancestors by an alteration in the life cycle that created unstable clusters of trophonts on a single parental stalk. Free-swimming trophonts would originate from breakup of these clusters.
3227090|Bathymodiolus platifrons, a chemosynthetic mussel from cold seeps off Japan, relies for its nutrition on the productivity of methylotrophic or methanotrophic endosymbionts. High densities of bacterial symbionts appearing to be type I methanotrophs were observed in transmission electron micrographs of gill tissues. Methanol dehydrogenase activity in gill tissue from a single individual was positive compared to non-methanotrophic control samples, indicating a high potential for methanotrophy. Stable isotopic ratios of carbon in symbiont-containing gill tissue, as well as host tissues, were extremely depleted in
4621884|The spermatozoa of two species of Macrodasyida (Gastrotricha), Urodasys anorektoxys and U. acanthostylis, show an ultrastructural organization diverging from one another and from other gastrotrichs: their main peculiarity is in the absence of mitochondria. In U. anorektoxys, the acrosome is a long, twisted column inserted into the nucleus, which is basally cylindrical, and the flagellum shows rows of peculiar, large globules parallel to the axonemal doublets. In U. acanthostylis, the acrosome is completely cork-screwed and surrounds the nucleus, and the tail shows columnar accessory fibers. At present, the absence of mitochondria in the mature sperm, and the peculiar fingerprint aspect of condensed chromatin are the only traits shared by the two species. The features of the spermatozoa of these two species of Urodasys widen the range of different models of gastrotrich spermatozoa, and place the genus in a peculiar position, from the spermatological point of view, within the Macrodasyida. The loss of mitochondria in mature spermatozoa is possibly related to either the dysoxic habitat of the two species or a peculiar fertilization mechanism.
10.2307/3226851|The arrangement of muscle and connective tissue fibers in the columellar muscle of three prosobranch gastropods, Calliostoma euglyptum, Littorina littorea, and Ilyanassa obsoleta, was analyzed. The columellar muscle in the three snails is a flat, sheet-like muscle that originates on the columella of the shell and inserts on the operculum. The muscle was found to comprise a densely packed three-dimensional array of muscular and connective tissue fibers, supporting the hypotheses of previous authors that it functions as a muscular hydrostat. The fiber arrangement is not uniform throughout the entire muscle; instead it includes three regions that grade into one another. Nearest its origin, the muscle consists primarily of longitudinal muscle fibers with few dorsoventral or transverse fibers, and no oblique fibers. The middle portion of the columellar muscle in the region posterior to the head consists of longitudinal, dorsoventral, and transverse fibers wrapped by two opposed layers of oblique fibers. The third region of the columellar muscle extends through the foot and includes longitudinal, transverse, and dorsoventral fibers with a layer of oblique fibers on the dorsal surface. A narrow band of spherical spaces divides the columellar muscle into dorsal and ventral halves in this region. The morphological zonation within the muscle suggests that different regions perform different functions. In addition, compared to a muscle that is circular in cross section, the elliptical crosssectional shape may increase the muscular force necessary to twist the foot relative to the shell and may decrease the resistance to buckling.
10.2307/3226954|The introvert of Priapulopsis australis and P. bicaudatus was investigated by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The scalids, clustered normally in groups of 5 and arranged in 25 longitudinal rows, differ slightly between the two species. All scalids are sensilla containing three kinds of bipolar sensory cells with apical cilia. The cilia of one cell type reach the surface through cuticular tubules. The cilia of the other two receptor cell types are surrounded by 7 stereovilli and lie entirely beneath the cuticle. What previously was considered to be the first ring of pharyngeal teeth in P. australis may be seen by scanning electron microscopy to be a series of 10 conical sensilla. This condition may be derived by reduction from 5 pairs of teeth as found in P. bicaudatus. In turn, each pair of first-ring pharyngeal teeth in P. bicaudatus may have arisen by reduction of the median cusp of each of the 5 teeth in an ancestor, leaving two halves.
40206237|Decorator crabs (Brachyura: Majoidea) are known for attaching sessile organisms to specialized velcro-like hooked setae. Here we describe behavioral and morphological aspects of decorating for a common northern Pacific majoid, Oregonia gracilis. Members of O. gracilis decorate with a diverse array of sessile organisms. These are attached to hooked setae, and also physically interact with long, pappose setae that occur in the same body regions as hooked setae. We describe these pappose setae and document the occurrence of similar setae in 36 other decorating majoids across seven families. In O. gracilis , the density of pappose and hooked setae independently covary with decoration amount, which is sexually dimorphicjuveniles and adult females decorate heavily, whereas adult males decorate sparsely. Adult males have reduced numbers of hooked and pappose setae, but the ontogenetic patterns for the two setal types are different, suggesting that they are quasi-independent characters. We experimentally ablated pappose setae to ask if they functionally contribute to decorating in O. gracilis. Surprisingly, we found that pappose setae are not necessary for decorating under laboratory conditions. Pappose setae could play an auxiliary mechanical role or a sensory role in decorating, or may have another as-yet-unidentified function distinct from decorating.
23016668|The intertidal hoplonemertean Prosorhochmus americanus is a common inhabitant of the fouling community of rock jetties of the southeast coast of the United States. We undertook a laboratory investigation of the feeding rate of this nemertean, which is a suctorial predator of amphipod crustaceans that co-occur in abundance in the fouling community. While submerged in water (simulating high tide), worms fed on the tube-building amphipods Jassa falcata and Corophium cf. insidiosum at rates of 0.19 amphipods nemertean<sup>1</sup> d<sup>1</sup> (n = 10) and 0.26 amphipods nemertean<sup>1</sup> d<sup>1</sup> (n = 14), respectively. These predation rates were not significantly different (two-tailed t-test, p>0.05), and are similar to those estimated in laboratory studies of other suctorial nemerteans. Many nemerteans are typically more active at night, and indeed, adults of P. americanus consumed more individuals of J. falcata during dark periods than during light periods (<sup>2</sup> analysis, p<0.05). However, no difference in consumption of individuals of C. cf. insidiosum was observed in dark versus light. We attribute these contrasting results to differences in tube-building behavior exhibited by these two species of amphipod under laboratory conditions. Our results and those of other laboratory investigations suggest that nemerteans that prey on amphipods feed at a rate of 0.2 prey items nemertean<sup>1</sup> d<sup>1</sup>, but under natural conditions this rate may not be obtained because of limited feeding time, longer foraging distances, and emigration of prey from regions of high nemertean activity.
10.2307/3226913|The entire headfoot (HF) of small snails, Biomphalaria glabrata, was implanted into the hemocoel of allogeneic adults and examined histologically at 30 and 60 days postimplantation (DPI). Although displaying varying degrees of abnormal morphology, the HF allografts continued feeding motions with the buccal mass and showed muscular contractions of the foot muscle. The transected esophagus fused shut and became distended with amorphous material, possibly ingested and/or secreted substances. The buccal mass grew, and pieces of the exfoliated radular ribbon were found in the esophageal sac. Although most major structures of the HF appeared quite normal at the cell and tissue level, the tentacles and epithelium covering the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the HF apparently were lost when in direct contact with the recipient's hemolymph, but persisted if folded or invaginated below the implant surface. No host hemocytic response was observed at either 30 or 60 DPI. These results demonstrate not only considerable physiological plasticity by the implant but also immunological tolerance to histologically complex allografts by the recipient, and support the hypothesis that allorecognition is poorly developed in molluscs.
3227222|Recent investigations into chaetogenesis of certain types of annelid setae provide important results for unravelling the phylogenetic relationships within several taxa of polychaetous annelids. This paper presents data on ultrastructure and development of 2 types of orbiniid setae. The analysis of the crenulate capillaries in Orbinia latreillii reveals a formation process which clearly differs from the development of Equisetum-like setae of lingulid brachiopods. For the investigation of forked setae, which up to now have been neglected in the discussion on the phylogenetic significance of annelid setae, notopodial setal sacs of O. latreillii and O. bioreti were studied by light- and electron microscopy. In the setal sacs, stages of forked setae are restricted to a dorsocaudal pouch, which represents the site of setal formation. The 2 diverging, stout tines of the fork bear spines on their inner margins, each of which is preformed by a single microvillus. After retraction of the microvilli, a characteristic pattern of the setal canals inside of the spines remains. The present study belongs to a series of comparative studies into chaetogenesis of forked setae. These special setae are also found in other orbiniid taxa as well as some paraonids, scalibregmatids, and nephtyids. Ultrastructural investigations into the development of these forked setae might suggest homology.
3701513| The highly modified development of the brittle star Amphiodia occidentalis is described from post-fertilization to the juvenile stage. Fertilized eggs are negatively buoyant, ~190 m in diameter, surrounded by a thick hyaline layer and a tough fertilization envelope. After gastrulation, embryos flatten into a bilaterally symmetrical disk with a U-shaped ridge surrounding an indented stomodeum on the oral surface. Internally, a ring of ~22 calcitic ossicles grows at the edge of the disk. Vestigial ophiopluteal structures such as a ciliated band, paired larval spicules, or larval arms are not expressed during development. Although the fertilization envelope disintegrates on day 3, developmental stages remain immotile for five more days until they move with podia. At hatching, five hydrocoelic lobes are evident on the left side of the post-gastrula, and these migrate clockwise around the stomodeum, establishing pentamerous radial symmetry. Central and radial plates originate on the right side and migrate to a dorsocentral location as pentamerous symmetry is established. Development of the juvenile oral skeletal frame follows closely that described by Hendler (1978) for Amphioplus abditus except that A. occidentalis did not form buccal scales. The juvenile mouth opened by day 12. Fifty-five days after fertilization, juveniles had not added their first arm segments, although the first lateral arm plates had appeared. Developmental stages identical to those described here have been found in plankton tows taken in Oregon usually after storms that bring high waves. The unusual development of this species probably occurs in both benthic and pelagic environments. 
3227256|We describe the morphology and ultrastructure of the free-swimming larvae of the sponge Crambe crambe, one of the most abundant encrusting sponges on shallow rocky bottoms of the western Mediterranean. Larvae of C. crambe are released in July and August. The larva is uniformly flagellated except at the posterior zone. Flagellated cells are extraordinarily slender, elongate, and sinuous and form a pseudo-stratified layer. Their distal zone contains abundant mitochondria, some small vesicles, a Golgi complex, and the basal apparatus of the flagellum. Abundant lipid droplets are present throughout the cell. The nucleus is most often in a basal position. The flagellum projects from the bottom of an asymmetrical socket formed by cytoplasmic expansions. The basal body extends in a conical tuft and a laminar rootlet in close association with the Golgi system. The cells at the posterior pole are flat and polygonal on the surface, with long overlapping pseudopodia in the typical shape of a pinacoderm. Sparse collagen is present throughout the whole larva including the flagellated layer. Archeocytes and sclerocytes are abundant in the posterior region. Typical collencytes and spherulous cells seem to be absent. Intracellular and extracellular rod-like bacteria with conspicuous fimbria occur exclusively in the posterior region of the larva. The asymmetrical cytoplasmic prolongations, which surround the flagellum, and the basal apparatus of the flagellum are suggested as the sites of stimulus reception and triggering of locomotor responses, respectively. This ultrastructural study of the larva of C. crambe has shown features directly linked to its behavior and ecology.
40981224|Plasticity in hatching can balance risks of benthic and pelagic development and thereby affect the extent of larval dispersal. Veligers of the nudibranch Phestilla sibogae hatched from their individual capsules if the encapsulated embryos were scattered from a torn gelatinous egg ribbon. Hatching occurred as early as day 4 at 2325C. The early hatchlings lacked a propodium, swam, and were not yet competent to settle and metamorphose. Hatching may be induced by predation: crabs consumed egg ribbons, and a portunid crab, caught in the act of tearing an egg ribbon, scattered encapsulated embryos. Undisturbed egg masses hatched as late as 9-11 d at 2325C, or as early as 8 d in a trial at 26C. Late hatchlings had a well-developed propodium, and 20 100% metamorphosed within a day of exposure to the inducer from the nudibranch's coral prey. A few metamorphosed nudibranchs were found within hatching egg masses. Thus, the veligers can hatch so late that many are competent to metamorphose or so early that the obligate planktonic period can last 4 or more days. An attack by a predator means the benthic habitat is dangerous for the embryos, and swimming is presumably the safer option. In the absence of disturbance, the veligers hatch when ready or nearly ready to settle.
3227236|The aeolid nudibranch Aeolidia papillosa is an important predator on the sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima, a host to two kinds of endosymbiotic algae: zooxanthellae and zoochlorellae. The possible influence of the algae on the nudibranch's predatory response to this anemone was examined in a laboratory study. In chemosensory experiments, the nudibranch detected and chose anemone scent over a seawater control, but in both chemosensory and feeding experiments showed no preference for zooxanthellate or zoochlorellate anemones. Ingestive conditioning on zooxanthellate or zoochlorellate anemones had no effect on choice of these two anemone types in chemosensory experiments. Comparisons of the productivity and photosynthetic pigments of algae obtained from nudibranch feces and from anemones show that both algae survive passage through the nudibranch gut. The productivity of fecal zooxanthellae was 1.6x greater than that of zooxanthellae freshly isolated from anemones, although the chlorophyll a content of fecal zooxanthellae was reduced. The productivity and amount of pigments were the same for zoochlorellae in nudibranch feces and freshly isolated from anemones. Comparing fecal and isolated algae, there was no significant difference in the percentage of zooxanthellae in the process of cell division. However, the percentage of dividing cells was 2.6x higher in fecal than in freshly isolated zoochlorellae (18% and 6.9% respectively). Although the endosymbiotic algae do not make their host more or less attractive to the nudibranch, this predator may play an important role in maintaining the symbiotic relationship of Anthopleura elegantissima with zooxanthellae and zoochlorellae by providing viable algae in its feces as a source for the anemone host.
3227074|Induction of metamorphosis in larvae of the marine bryozoan Bugula stolonifera was examined for potential roles of G protein-linked cell-surface receptors. Two compounds that modulate components of the G protein system were tested in a bath-applied experimental design over concentrations of 10
4621903|Waitkera waitakerensis occupies lowland forests of New Zealand's North Island, where temperatures decrease in a southwestward direction. The mean annual temperatures of 18 collecting sites, as extracted from GIS data, are directly related to the first femur length of adult females. Neither site elevation nor phylogeny affected spider size or other variables examined. The direct relationship between spider body size and environmental temperature followed a pattern observed in other terrestrial arthropods with a univoltine life cycle and can probably be explained by the longer growing season of warmer regions. Egg diameter was uniform across the species. Site temperature and female first femur length were each directly related to the number of eggs deposited in egg sacs. The date of egg sac collection was inversely related to egg number, suggesting that clutch size declines during the reproductive season. Females deposit eggs beneath a triangular platform and then cover them with a lower silk sheet. The area of this upper platform and the volume of the egg sac were each directly related to egg number, but not to female first femur length. The depth of the lower covering was not related to egg number or to spider first femur length. This suggests that spiders use information about the volume of eggs in their abdomens to construct an egg sac whose volume will accommodate the vol of eggs to be laid and that females do so principally by adjusting the size of the sac's upper triangular platform.
10.2307/3227010|The tunic morphology of the tropical ascidian Phallusia nigra was studied with regard to its protective functions by means of light and electron microscopy. The tunic has a smooth surface free of epibionts. Beneath the tunic surface, phagocytic cells containing pigment granules (pigmentary tunic phagocytes) are densely distributed and form the pigmentary layer. These pigments may protect the body from irradiation. When poorly pigmented specimens growing in a dim location are transplanted to a bright location, pigmentation is induced and the tunic becomes black. In this process, tunic phagocytes probably produce pigment granules and migrate to the pigmentary layer. The tunic under the pigmentary layer is packed with highly vacuolated cells (tunic bladder cells). Vital staining with LysoSensor, a fluorescent pH indicator, demonstrated that the vacuoles contain strong acid. Acidic fluid leaks out when the tunic is injured. Leaking acid could serve to disinfect the injured area, be an irritant to potential predators, and/or be involved in anti-fouling.
40206185|Polyclad flatworms are acoelomate bilaterians found in benthic communities worldwide, predominantly in marine environments. Current polyclad systematics is unstable, with two non-concordant classification schemes resulting in a poor understanding of within-group relationships. Here we present the first phylogenetic framework for the suborder Cotylea using a morphological matrix. Representatives of 34 genera distributed among all cotylean families (except four, excluded due to their dubious taxonomic status) were investigated. The number of families included ranges from a conservative eight to a revisionary 11. Outgroup analysis indicated that the suborder is monophyletic and defined by the presence of a ventral adhesive structure, a short posteriorly positioned vagina, and cement glands. Of the eight to 11 families included, we confirmed that three were monophyletic: Boniniidae, Prosthiostomidae, and Pseudocerotidae. Boniniidae was consistently recovered as the sister group to other Cotylea, based on the retention of the plesiomorphic Lang's vesicle. The clade consisting of Anonymus, Marcusia, and Pericelis is sister to the Boniniidae and the rest of the Cotylea. Above this clade there is little resolution at the base of the sister group. The Euryleptidae are found to be paraphyletic and give rise to the Pseudocerotidae. Neither classification scheme received unequivocal support. The intrafamilial relationships of the diverse Pseudocerotidae and Euryleptidae were examined. Color pattern characters (used for species identification) were highly homoplasious but increased cladogram resolution within genera. The monophyly of seven genera within the Pseudocerotidae and Euryleptidae was not supported and many genera showed no autapomorphies, highlighting the need for taxonomic revision of these families.
40663866|Sponges can serve as hosts to invertebrate assemblages that live and reproduce within them. Sponges also constitute a major part of the benthic epifaunal community on the continental shelf of the southeastern United States; however, little is known about these sponges and the assemblages they harbor. In this study, the associated fauna from a variety of sponges and one species of tunicate collected by submersible from the continental shelf and slope of the southeastern United States at depths in the range 18-875 m were examined. Seventeen sponges, comprising eight species (Ircinia Topsentia sp., Geodia sp., Characella sp., Erylus sp., Apylsina archeri, Cliona sp., and Pheronema carpenteri), and three tunicate colonies (Didemnidae) were fully dissected and all associated organisms were identified and counted. Additionally, the sponges Pheronema annae (951m) and P. carpenteri (770 m) represent new records for the region. The diversity (H') and density of associates varied considerably among hosts; the densities of associates ranged 0.4-11,684 per 1 L of host volume. Polychaete worms were the most common organisms found, with one species, Haplosyllis spongicola, being especially abundant in I. campana, Topsentia sp., and Cliona sp. The amphipods Ericthonius punctatus and Leucothoe cf. spinicarpa, as well as decapods such as snapping shrimp (Synalpheus sp.) and crabs (e.g., Pilumnus floridana, Micropanope urinator), were also common. The number of symbiont taxa did not significantly increase as the sponge size increased. However, weak positive trends were found between the diversity of associates and increasing canal diameter. Sponges and tunicates were judged to represent legitimate ecological communities harboring a complete food web as well as gravid and juvenile individuals.
3701472|The outer surfaces of the shells of living marine gastropods are often colonized by other organisms. However, only one species, the sabellid worm Terebrasabella heterouncinata, is able to settle in the aperture of living gastropods. Native to South Africa, and introduced to California, this worm is a pest of abalone aquaculture and has been a threat to native gastropods in California. We investigated the intrinsic susceptibility of 15 marine gastropods from California to this apertural fouling organism. Intrinsic susceptibility was significantly different among gastropod species. Overall, caenogastropods tended to be more resistant than were the vetigastropods and patellogastropods. This suggests that variability in susceptibility could be due to characteristics associated with closely related gastropod hosts. However, this only partially explained the variation in susceptibility to individuals of T. heterouncinata. Intrinsic susceptibility was not associated with potential host species from similar habitats. We discuss host susceptibility to T. heterouncinata, including implications for potential control of this pest species, and for understanding factors enabling this polychaete to inhabit the apertural region, an area typically free of all other epibionts.
3227211|Setae of the first segment of the marine annelid Sthenelais berkeleyi (family Sigalionidae) are arranged in the shape of an antero-dorsally directed tube. When the worm is in resting position buried in sediment, this setal tube projects slightly from the sediment surface. A current of water is drawn into it by cilia on the parapodia of the first segment. The water is then diverted to a pair of lateral spaces between the body wall and elytra, moved posteriorly in these spaces along the length of the body by segmental cilia, and eventually exits posteriorly or ventrally. This flow permits the worm to respire while remaining buried and immobile for long periods of time, waiting for prey to move over the sediment near it. Setae of the first segment are probably used as snorkels in some other infaunal sigalionids as well.
10.2307/3226839|In the Hawaiian turrid gastropod Carinapex minutissima, secretory reorganization at the boundary between the larval protoconch and the juvenile teleoconch is a gradual process, a sequence of events occurring over 5-7 days rather than an instantaneous reprogramming. I argue that such a staged sequence yields useful information not only for phylogenetic reconstruction and systematics but also for grounding the comparative study of gastropod metamorphosis and life-history evolution. Secretion of juvenile shell follows a retreat of the mantle, so that the first material is deposited beneath the surface of the protoconch rather than at its margin. Growth continues by advance and retreat of the mantle, resulting in progressive imbricate thickening of the shell. The two velar notches fill sequentially. The anterior siphonal canal elongates before accretionary growth begins along the outer lip and before juvenile lip shape and juvenile ornamentation are established. The velum is lost through a combination of gradual disintegration and resorption during the period of secretory reorganization. The larval and early juvenile shells of other gastropods record many kinds of change. Sculptural zonation is common and provides indirect evidence of sequential reprogramming. Additional studies of larvae in culture are required to provide direct evidence and to establish the comparative data base for phylogenetic analysis.
3701453|The role of houseflies as agents in the spread of bacterial diseases has been thoroughly investigated, yet the fate of bacteria ingested by flies has not. We examined the physical location of the bacterial enteropathogen Aeromonas caviae in the midgut of laboratory-reared adult houseflies. Food ingested by houseflies was separated from the midgut epithelium by a double-layered peritrophic matrix (PM). The inner PM intimately enveloped the food as fecal pellets (food boluses), while the outer PM appeared as a long continuous tube. In flies fed a suspension of A. caviae, live bacteria were not observed within the inner PM, but were compartmentalized between folds of the PM in the inter-PM space. Similar observations were made for flies fed a suspension of Serratia liquefaciens and for highly contaminated feral flies. Isolates of both A. caviae and S. liquefaciens were chitinolytic (as demonstrated by clearing zones on chitin agar), but the potential role of bacterial enzymes in the alteration of PM morphology or formation needs further investigation.
10.2307/3226920|Recent observations, from a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) working in the Monterey Submarine Canyon in the northeast Pacific and from the Johnson Sea Link II in the northwest Atlantic, revealed the presence of the trachymedusa Benthocodon pedunculata near the bottom in both oceans. Although feeding was not observed in the field or in the lab, gut contents indicate a preponderance of benthopelagic crustaceans although a wide variety of zooplankton have been found. Two morphologically different tentacle types both possess cnidae with a 3:1 ratio of euryteles to stenoteles. Unencysted metacercariae of a trematode parasite were found in the manubrium of more than half the medusae examined.
4124895| The male reproductive system of the caterpillar-hunting wasp Ancistrocerus antilope was composed of the testes, seminal vesicles, accessory glands, the penis, and the connecting ducts. The testes, which were paired structures lined with a thin layer of squamous epithelium, were composed of several lobes that contain developing spermatozoa. These spermatozoa began as spermatocytes in the distal portion of the testicular lobe and, as they matured, they moved proximally toward the seminal vesicles. Upon maturation, the spermatozoa were long, thin structures with a nucleus of ~ 10-15 m in length and 1-2 m in width. Their tails, which were not morphologically distinct from their heads at the gross level, aver-aged 388 25 m in length. Once the spermatozoa had fully developed, they traveled from the testes to the seminal vesicles, where they were stored. The walls of the seminal vesicles were composed of a ciliated, pseudostratified, columnar epithelium. A layer of fibrous connective tissue termed the testicular capsule encapsulated both the testes and the seminal vesicles. Upon ejaculation, the spermatozoa moved through the deferent ducts, where they combined with granular fluid from the accessory glands. From here, they traveled via the ejaculatory duct to the penis, where they were expelled. In this study, these anatomical descriptions are discussed in reference to other species of the Hymenoptera. 
10.2307/3226975|Particle capture, transport, ingestion, and selection mechanisms used by Dipolydora commensalis, a symbiotic worm that inhabits burrows it produces in hermit crab shells, were studied in the laboratory. Worms removed from shells inhabited by Pagurus longicarpus were placed in capillary tubes for observation and video-microscopy of feeding. Particles were captured by the palps and transported to the mouth by ciliary and muscular action. Mean transport rates for cysts of Artemia from the distal ends of the palps to the mouth ranged from 0.7 to 1.3 mm/sec; those for glass beads, from 0.2 to 0.8 mm/sec. Upon reaching the mouth, particles were engulfed by the lateral lips and ingested. Worms feeding on large particles (>0.2 mm) repeatedly arched the anterior end of the body. Nauplii of Artemia were used to determine the ability of the worms to feed on small motile organisms over a 24-h period in the dark. In six trials the percentage of nauplii ingested ranged from 58% to 76%. In particle selection experiments, worms were offered uncoated glass beads and beads coated with fluid from the ribbed mussel, Geukensia demissa. In two experiments 91% and 89% of coated glass beads were ingested as compared to 15% and 4% of uncoated beads, respectively. Video-analyses of feeding sequences showed that cysts were often partially ingested and then ejected from the mouth. Uncoated beads transported along the palps often never reached the mouth. These results indicate that D. commensalis can actively select particles at the mouth and possibly during transport along the palps.
3701497| Pre-settlement events play an important role in determining larval success in marine invertebrates with bentho-pelagic life histories, yet the consequences of these events typically are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to examine the pre-settlement impacts of different seawater temperatures on the size and population density of dinoflagellate symbionts in brooded larvae of the Caribbean coral Porites astreoides. Larvae were collected from P. astreoides at 14-20 m depth on Conch Reef (Florida) in June 2002, and incubated for 24 h at 15 temperatures spanning the range 25.1-30.0C in mean increments of 0.40.1C ( SD). The most striking feature of the larval responses was the magnitude of change in both parameters across this 5C temperature range within 24 h. In general, larvae were largest and had the highest population densities of Symbiodinium sp. between 26.4-27.7C, and were smallest and had the lowest population densities at 25.8C and 28.8C. Larval size and symbiont population density were elevated slightly (relative to the minimal values) at the temperature extremes of 25.1C and 30C. These data demonstrate that coral larvae are highly sensitive to seawater temperature during their pelagic phase, and respond through changes in size and the population densities of Symbiodinium sp. to ecologically relevant temperature signals within 24 h. The extent to which these changes are biologically meaningful will depend on the duration and frequency of exposure of coral larvae to spatio-temporal variability in seawater temperature, and whether the responses have cascading effects on larval success and their entry to the post-settlement and recruitment phase. 
25623060|Since the 18th century, the medicinal leech Hirudo medicinalis has been thought to comprise a single species with several different color morphs, but recently some of these color morphs have been assigned to separate species based on morphology, geographical distribution, and molecular sequence data. This research was aimed at testing the ability of three of these species, H. medicinalis, Hirudo verbana, and Hirudo orientalis, to interbreed. We found that in the laboratory, all three species were able to mate with each other and produce hybrid offspring. This suggests that the reproductive isolation is not strong among these species of the genus Hirudo. However, fewer offspring were produced from interspecific crosses compared with intraspecific crosses. This decrease of fecundity (and in some cases, offspring viability) indicates some degree of reproductive isolation between H. medicinalis, H. verbana, and H. orientalis.
40206249|The phylogenetic relationships within the Order Aplousobranchiata (Ascidiacea) are largely unexplored. In this work, we study the phylogenetic status of the genera Clavelina and Pycnoclavella. Traditionally, both genera had been included in the family Clavelinidae, until the new family Pycnoclavellidae was defined, removing the genus Pycnoclavella from Clavelinidae. Not all authors accept the validity of Clavelina and Pycnoclavella as distinct genera, let alone their belonging to different families. In addition, the assignment of species to these genera, as well as to the genus Archidistoma, has been controversial. We analyzed sequences of the mitochondrial gene cytochrome c oxidase subunit I belonging to ten species of Pycnoclavella (including several formerly assigned to Archidistoma and Clavelina), 11 species of Clavelinidae, and ten species of other aplousobranch genera belonging to seven families, plus two outgroups. Two different tree construction methods (maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference) showed similar results. Pycnoclavella and Clavelina appeared in distinct clades but formed a monophyletic group relative to representatives of the main families of the order Aplousobranchiata. Our phylogenetic results indicate that both genera are valid but should be included within a single family, with the name Clavelinidae having precedence. The monotypic clavelinid genus Nephtheis branches in our trees within the clade of the genus Clavelina. Our results also confirm that some forms assigned to Archidistoma and Clavelina have been misplaced and belong to the genus Pycnoclavella. Pycnoclavella martae n. sp. is described.
10.2307/3226993|Endobionts associated with the coral reef sponge Theonella swinhoei (Lithistida, Demospongiae), from the Red Sea and Indian Ocean, were characterized through histological and ultrastructural investigations. Prokaryotes included unicellular heterotrophic bacteria (mean concentration, 20% of the sponge tissue), unicellular cyanobacteria (Aphanocapsa feldmanni, 15% of the sponge tissue), and non-photosynthetic filamentous forms, probably in the Beggiatoa-group (sulfur bacteria, family Beggiatoaceae, 40% of the sponge tissue). Evidence of ingestion of small pieces of filamentous bacteria by sponge cells was observed. The worm Haplosyllis spongicola (Syllidae, Polychaeta) inhabited the canals of the sponge aquiferous system (mean density, 73 worms/cm
10.2307/3226958|A new species of the ascidian genus Bathypera (Ascidiacea: Pyuridae), B. feminalba, is described from deep-water habitats of Saanich Inlet and Barkley Sound, British Columbia, Canada, with data on the depth distribution, substratum use, reproduction, embryology, and larval development. The species is characterized by hourglass-shaped spicules topped with a single large spine and several smaller spines, a branchial sac with 7 folds per side, and irregular and curved stigmata. B. feminalba spawned in response to light following dark adaptation during the month of June. Development was similar to that of other pyurids. The tadpole larva, the first to be described in this genus, has the same sensory organs found in shallow-water relatives: an ocellus, a statocyst, and 3 large conical adhesive papillae. The ocellus is sensitive to monochromatic light between 475 and 600 nm with peak sensitivity in the blue region of the spectrum. This species occurs below 20-30 m depth, where it occupies vertical cliffs, the sides of boulders, and also smaller cobbles. It shares this habitat with a characteristic assemblage of ascidians, brachiopods, serpulid polychaetes, and sponges, few of which are found in shallow water. On a small scale, the distribution of B. feminalba is aggregated, with the pattern suggesting gregarious larval settlement. At the upper end of its depth range, this species appears to be excluded from surfaces with coralline algae; competition with algae or interactions with some organism associated with the coralline algal community may determine its upper limit.
40981234|The phylogenetic relationships among the "archaeogastropod" clades Patellogastropoda, Vetigastropoda, Neritimorpha, and Neomphalina are uncertain; the phylogenetic placement of these clades varies across different analyses, and particularly among those using morphological characteristics and those relying on molecular data. This study explores the relationships among these groups using a combined analysis with seven molecular loci (18S rRNA, 28S rRNA, histone H3, 16S rRNA, cytochrome c oxidase subunit I [COI], myosin heavy-chain type II, and elongation factor-1 [EF-1]) sequenced for 31 ingroup taxa and eight outgroup taxa. The deep evolutionary splits among these groups have made resolution of stable relationships difficult, and so EF-1 and myosin are used in an attempt to re-examine these ancient radiation events. Three phylogenetic analyses were performed utilizing all seven genes: a single-step direct optimization analysis using parsimony, and two-step approaches using parsimony and maximum likelihood. A single-step direct optimization parsimony analysis was also performed using only five molecular loci (18S rRNA, 28S rRNA, histone H3, 16S rRNA, and COI) in order to determine the utility of EF-1 and myosin in resolving deep relationships. In the likelihood and POY optimal phylogenetic analyses, Gastropoda, Caenogastropoda, Neritimorpha, Neomphalina, and Patellogastropoda were monophyletic. Additionally, Neomphalina and Pleurotomariidae fell outside the remaining vetigastropods, indicating the need for further investigation into the relationship of these groups with other gastropods.
3227180|The terrestrial polychaete Hrabeiella periglandulata has many features in common with the Clitellata and the polychaete taxon Parergodrilidae. An ultrastructural investigation of the central nervous system and the sense organs of H. periglandulata individuals was undertaken to look for structural similarities with these taxa as well as to elucidate whether these structures might exhibit adaptive characters typical of terrestrial annelids in general. The central nervous system of H. periglandulata is subepidermal and consists of a brain situated in the first achaetigerous segment. The circumoesophageal connectives are without dorsal and ventral roots, and the ventral nerve cord has closely associated connectives and ill-defined ganglia. In contrast to clitellates and the terrestrial parergodrilid Parergodrilus heideri, nuchal organs are present. They are internal and highly modified compared with those of marine polychaetes but are similar to those of the intertidal parergodrilid Stygocapitella subterranea. A pair of ciliary sense organs is present inside the brain, resembling similar structures in many microdrile oligochaetes. These observations indicate that there are, in fact, structural similarities between the nervous system and the sense organs of clitellates, parergodrilids, and Hrabeiella individuals. These similarities may very likely be the result of convergent evolution in adaptation to the terrestrial environment.
4124888| Specimens of the sponge Tethya orphei, collected in February 2005 on the underside of coral stones on Ar Athol (Maldives), have been processed for histological and ultrastructural investigations. The cortical layer of the sponge was found to be permeated by filamentous cyanobacteria, the trichomes of which measured 45-63 m on average and were composed of 10-14 cells. The fine organization of the filaments was consistent with their taxonomic identification as Oscillatoria spongeliae. These filaments filled the cortical region of the sponge and penetrated inward into the upper choanosomal region, where they sometimes overlapped the siliceous spicule bundles. A budding specimen of T. orphei showed that the filaments were also present in the single bud protruding from the sponge surface, demonstrating that asexual reproduction can vertically transmit these symbionts from sponge to sponge. The occurrence of filaments in all the specimens studied is consistent with the assumption that filamentous cyanobacteria are not mere intruders but mutualistic symbionts with members of T. orphei. 
4621900| Seasonal maturation of the gonad (hermaphrodic gland) was examined in the terrestrial slug Lehmannia valentiana in Osaka, Japan. The ratio of the gonad weight to body weight was low in June-September, rapidly increased in October, and gradually decreased thereafter. In May-September, most slugs had only spermatogonia and spermatocytes, and all slugs had mature sperms in October-April. The oocyte size increased in September and large oocytes were observed in late October-April. Under natural temperature and photo-periodic conditions in Osaka, slugs laid eggs in early November-May. Therefore, this species reproduces from late autumn to spring, in contrast to many terrestrial slugs. In January-early February, however, the number of laid eggs was small and oviposition activity showed a bimodal seasonal pattern. In contrast, the hatching pattern was unimodal and most hatching was observed in spring. After a 1-h exposure to 33C, the survival rate was 100% in juvenile slugs but 0% in eggs. Although hatching success was >85% at 15-20C, no eggs hatched when they were maintained at 25C. The heat susceptibility of eggs in this species may be one of the key factors restricting oviposition from late autumn to spring. 
3227116|The hypothesis that bioluminescence produced by larvae of the New Zealand glowworm, Arachnocampa luminosa, attracts prey was tested experimentally in Reserve Cave, Waitomo, New Zealand, and in its bush-clad entrance over a total of 200 days during winter, spring, and summer. We compared catches on transparent adhesive traps placed either over glowworms or over areas from which glowworms had been removed. Adhesive traps over glowworms caught significantly more invertebrates per trap per day than did control traps. Glowworms in bush attracted greater numbers and types of invertebrates than did glowworms in the cave. Dipters predominated in both bush (86% of the total catch) and cave (89%). Also caught were small numbers of Araneae, Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, Orthoptera, Trichoptera, Gastropoda, Acarina, and Neuroptera-listed in order of abundance-but no adults of A. luminosa were caught. Glowworms under adhesive traps survived with little or no food for up to 78 days.
41408395|The dynamics and consequences of the varied reproductive modes of marine invertebrates is a rich and vibrant field of inquiry for ecological and evolutionary studies. One mode of reproduction that is not as well-studied as others is "spermcasting" or "spermcast mating," when males broadcast sperm and females retain eggs and brood developing embryonic stages. This type of reproduction occurs in two small (maximum adult shell length ~5-6 mm) venerid bivalves, Nutricola confusa and N. tantilla, that live in protected bays of the temperate eastern Pacific. Females of these species brood developing embryos in chambers formed by the inner demibranchs, and release fully formed juveniles. We discovered that upon exposing clams to fluvoxamine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, males release spermatozeugmata, clusters of sperm cells attached by their heads to a central core. Spermatozoa of Nutricola have unusually long, needle-shaped heads that are approximately one quarter of the total length of the cell. These heads are curled and "packaged" into the hemispherical-shaped cores of spermatozeugmata. The cores are about one-third as long as the heads, and the tails protrude out of the opposite side of the cap of the core. The spermatozeugmata display two different swimming patterns, one where the tails beat in synchrony, and the other where they do not. The size of the cores is not significantly different in the two species, but spermatozeugmata of N. tantilla have significantly longer and wider tails than those of N. confusa. Advantages to spermcasting spermatozeugmata instead of individual spermatozoa may include enhanced dispersal and increased probabilities of fertilization. One consequence of spermatozeugmata (rather than individual spermatozoa) entering female brood chambers might be lowering of the effective population size. For species like these, which lack pelagic larvae, spermatozeugmata could increase dispersal and gene flow.
3701460| This histochemical and ultrastructural study describes the epidermal gland cells of a tubicolous polychaete, Branchiomma luctuosum. The histochemistry was carried out using standard techniques and FITC-labelled lectins. Four types of secretory cells were identified in two categories: orthochromatic cells (Type 1) and metachromatic cells (Types 2, 3, and 4). The secretory product of the Type-1 orthochromatic cells contains neutral glycoproteins with Gal1,3GalNAc residues. Metachromatic cells produce acidic, mainly sulfated, glycoconjugates with Gal1,3GalNAc residues (Type 2) or glucosidic and/or mannosidic residues (Types 3 and 4). In sialylated chains, terminal sialic acid is bound to the penultimate GalNAc and Gall,3GalNAc residues. The complex composition of the mucus produced by epidermal gland cells of B. luctuosum may be correlated with its different functions. Ultrastructural studies of the epidermal gland cells showed differing morphology, and the presence in the gland cells of Types 3 and 4 of a funnel-shaped structure for the extrusion of the secretory material. 
25623048|I describe an unusual case of follicular oogenesis in a bivalve, Gaimardia trapesina, a common marine bivalve from the Magellan Region and adjacent Sub-Antarctic waters, whose members brood their developing larvae. The gonad in G. trapesina is an acinus organ that infiltrates the perivisceral connective tissue; the walls of the acini are formed by tall, slender cells with distal nuclei, supported by a thin conjunctive tissue layer. At the onset of vitellogenesis, each developing oocyte becomes surrounded by a one-cell-thick layer of follicle cells, which may originate from the wall of the acinus. The cells form a follicle that completely encompasses single oocytes, except at the basal zone, where oocytes are in contact with the acinus wall. The follicle persists beyond the end of vitellogenesis and spawning. After gamete release, the persistent follicle participates in the attachment of ova and developing embryos to the interfilamental junctions of the inner and outer demibranchs of the gill, where embryos are incubated until hatching as late-stage pediveliger larvae. Ripe eggs are large ( 250 m diameter), suggesting that development is entirely lecithotrophic. The follicle cells that mediate connections between developing embryos and the maternal individual probably have a mechanical role only, providing support and possibly facilitating the accommodation of a large number of embryos to maximize the branchial space available for brooding.
40663843|The nervous system of the meiobenthic priapulid species Tubiluchus troglodytes is described by immunohistochemistry and confocal laser scanning microscopy. The brain is circumpharyngeal, consisting of a central ring of neuropil and both anterior and posterior somata. From the brain emerges a ventral nerve cord, which shows ganglion-like swellings in the neck and caudal region. The introvert includes longitudinal neurite bundles running below and between the rows of scalids, with a small cluster of sensory cells under each scalid. In the body wall of the neck and trunk region, longitudinal and circular neurite bundles are present in an orthogonal pattern. The tail is innervated from the caudal swelling of the ventral nerve cord; it also includes longitudinal and circular bundles in an orthogonal pattern. The pharynx has a reticulated system of neurite bundles running between the pharyngeal teeth and fimbrillae. Below each tooth and fimbrilus is a ganglion-like cluster of somata. The intestine is surrounded by a nerve net. The data on the nervous system are compared within other priapulids and with other species of Scalidophora (Kinorhyncha and Loricifera).
10.2307/3226939|The ultrafiltration barrier of Mytilus edulis, Chlamys hastata, and Mercenaria mercenaria was studied (1) to resolve whether the basal lamina or the substructure of the ultrafiltration slits (slit diaphragm) is the principal filter and (2) to address the question of permselective behavior of the ultrafiltration barrier. The ultrafiltration slits in M. edulis are 15-22 nm wide. In grazing sections of the filtration barrier, projections from adjoining pedicels protrude into the ultrafiltration slits. These projections have a periodicity of about 20 nm and occur in both staggered and opposing patterns. However, considerable variability characterizes the organization of the slit diaphragm. Tracer experiments (mostly in Chlamys hastata and Mercenaria mercenaria) revealed that horseradish peroxidase (HRP, 40 kDa) is passed through the ultrafiltration barrier; colloidal gold (16 nm) and native ferritin (400 kDa), on the other hand, are retained at the level of the basal lamina. In addition, the distribution of HRP indicates that podocyte and pedicel surfaces are negatively charged. Highly anionic sites in the basal lamina were detected with ruthenium red. We conclude that (1) the basal lamina is the principal filter, and (2) the cutoff range for ultrafiltration is larger than 40 but smaller than 400 kDa. We hypothesize that the negative charges are important in filtration barrier function and maintenance. Finally, comparing bivalve ultrafiltration and mammalian glomerular filtration, we conclude that they share important characteristics: the basal lamina/basement membrane is the principal ultrafiltration barrier and the basal lamina/basement membrane and podocyte/pedicel surfaces are negatively charged.
3701450|Leeches are common terrestrial and aquatic annelids, parasitizing or feeding on a wide range of host taxa. Here we report evidence for an unusual feeding behavior of egg-feeding in the piscicolid leech Cystobranchus virginicus. We identified distended specimens of C. virginicus in the nests of at least 4 different fish species: Campostoma anomalum, Moxostoma carinatum, Moxostoma sp. (either M. anisurum and/or M. breviceps), and Nocomis leptocephalus. We collected a total of 41 leeches from the nests of these host species and documented at least 1 leech in 19 of 55 nests (35%), with many sites containing multiple leeches. Individuals of C. virginicus were not identified feeding on any of the 41 adult specimens of Moxostoma spp. or the 635 adult specimens of Nocomis leptocephalus examined, and were never found in the absence of active host spawning (26 sites). These results are consistent with individuals of C. virginicus being an opportunistic or possibly even an obligate egg-feeder, potentially timing their own reproductive activities with the spawning of their fish hosts. The current distribution of C. virginicus has been expanded to include North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. The potential for leech species to induce mortality in developing fish eggs could be a concern for fish conservation and merits further investigation.
3227206|Examination of the living bathyal feather star, Atelecrinus, using light and scanning electron microscopy reveals a series of morphological features, some apparently unique within the Crinoidea, which forces a reassessment of the relationship of the genus to other living feather stars. In the cavernous centrodorsal cavity, interradial buttresses end with a shallow oral concavity or deep pit. Two adjacent axils each bear a large distolateral calcareous process of unknown function that resembles a shoe with a deeply ridged sole. These processes project into the visceral mass with their "soles" apposed-the only known case among living crinoids in which a skeletal feature appears asymmetrically on two of five rays. Articular facets of distal brachials bear one distally-projecting, distal muscular fossa that overlaps a recumbent muscular fossa on the succeeding ossicle. Apposed projecting and recumbent fossae alternate sides on successive ossicles. The arm terminates in a long filament that lacks pinnules. Finally, modified ambulacral lappets resembling sessile pedicellariae but unsupported by skeletal plates flank the ambulacral grooves along the middle and proximal arms. Two of the four genera in the Atelecrinidae, extant monotypic Sibogacrinus anomalus and Cretaceous Jaekelometra, are removed from the family and treated as incertae sedis. Unique cirrus sockets are found in Atelecrinus and Atopocrinus sibogae (the only other remaining atelecrinid); members of Atopocrinus share unique ray morphology with those of the Pentametrocrinidae, and uniquely modified distal brachials are shared by individuals of Atelecrinus and Pentametrocrinus varians. However, the relationship of Atelecrinus to other feather stars remains unclear. The genus may represent a highly derived, paedomorphic comatulid as suggested by its unmetamorphosed basal ring and lack of proximal pinnules, or a non-comatulid distinguished by its cirrus sockets, skeletal processes and pedicellaria-like features. Robust answers require fresh material suitable for ultrastructural and molecular analyses.
10.2307/3227031|The supportive tissue in the gills of three species of freshwater bivalves (Corbicula fluminea, Dreissena polymorpha, and Toxolasma texasensis) is composed of a similar extracellular matrix with interspersed muscle fibers. These matrices consist of a periodic acid Schiffpositive tissue supported by small collagen fibrils as determined by morphological and biochemical examination. The periodicity observed in fibrils and the electrophoretic migration patterns are consistent with other collagens. The ultrastructure of the muscle fibers associated with the connective tissue corresponds with a known type of smooth muscle. The high degree of similarity between the tissues of these species suggests a similar, conserved function.
4124889|The alcyonacean soft coral genera Sarcophyton and Lobophytum are conspicuous, ecologically important members of shallow reef communities throughout the Indo-West Pacific. Study of their ecology is, however, hindered by incomplete knowledge of their taxonomy: most species cannot be identified in the field and the two genera cannot always be distinguished reliably. We used a 735-bp fragment of the octocoral-specific mitochondrial protein-coding gene msh1 to construct a phylogeny for 92 specimens identified to 19 species of Lobophytum and 16 species of Sarcophyton. All phylogenetic methods used recovered a tree with three strongly supported clades. One clade included only morphologically typical Sarcophyton species with a stalk distinct from the polypary, poorly formed club-shaped sclerites in the colony surface, and large spindles in the interior of the stalk. A second clade included only morphologically typical Lobophytum colonies with lobes and ridges on the colony surface, poorly formed clubs in the colony surface, and interior sclerites consisting of oval forms with regular girdles of ornamental warts. The third distinct clade included a mix of Sarcophyton and Lobophytum nominal species with intermediate morphologies. Most of the species in this mixed clade had a polypary that was not distinct from the stalk, and the sclerites in the colony surface were clubs with well-defined heads. Within the Sarcophyton clade, specimens identified as Sarcophyton glaucum belonged to six very distinct genetic sub-clades, suggesting that this morphologically heterogeneous species is actually a cryptic species complex. Our results highlight the need for a complete taxonomic revision of these genera, using molecular data to help confirm species boundaries as well as to guide higher taxonomic decisions.
40206243|The ribbon-shaped salivary glands in Bulla striata were studied with light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Secretion is produced in tubules formed by two types of secretory cells, namely granular mucocytes and vacuolated cells, intercalated with ciliated cells. A central longitudinal duct lined by the same cell types collects the secretion and conducts it to the buccal cavity. In granular mucocytes, the nucleus is usually central and the secretory vesicles contain oval-shaped granular masses attached to the vesicle membrane. Glycogen granules can be very abundant, filling the space around the secretory vesicles. These cells are strongly stained by PAS reaction for polysaccharides. Their secretory vesicles are also stained by Alcian blue, revealing acidic mucopolysaccharides, and the tetrazonium reaction detects proteins in minute spots at the edge of the vesicles, corresponding to the granular masses observed in TEM. Colloidal iron staining for acidic mucopolysaccharides in TEM reveals iron particles in the electron-lucent region of the vesicles, while the granular masses are free of particles. In vacuolated cells, which are thinner and less abundant than the granular mucocytes, the nucleus is basal and the cytoplasm contains large electron-lucent vesicles. These vesicles are very weakly colored by light microscopy techniques, but colloidal iron particles could be observed within them. The golf tee-shaped ciliated cells contain some electron-dense lysosomes in the apical region. In these cells, the elongated nucleus is subapically located, and bundles of microfibrils are common in the slender cytoplasmic stalk that reaches the basal lamina. The morphological, histochemical, and cytochemical data showed some similarities between salivary glands in B. striata and Aplysia depilans. These similarities could reflect the phylogenetic relationship between cephalaspidean and anaspidean opisthobranchs or result from a convergent adaptation to an identical herbivorous diet.
3227128|Antibodies against the echinoderm-specific neuropeptide S1 and against 5HT were used to examine the fate of the larval nervous system during metamorphosis in the ophiuroid Ophiactis resiliens. In contrast to most echinoderms, the onset of peptidergic and serotonergic expression was delayed to the advanced ophiopluteus stage, in particular for 5HT. In advanced ophioplutei, peptidergic immunoreactivity was located in simple fibres associated with the ciliated bands, a stomach nerve ring, and cells along the antero-lateral arms. 5HT immunoreactivity was concentrated in 2 oral ganglia in the adoral projections, located at the posterior rim of the mouth. Clusters of 5HT-positive cells were also found along the antero-lateral arms. The ophiopluteus lacked a serotonergic (or peptidergic) anterior ganglion. In echinoids, holothuroids, and crinoids, anterior ganglia are thought to have a sensory role in settlement and metamorphosis. Given that ophioplutei metamorphose in the plankton and that larval structures degenerate before settlement, the absence of apical ganglia correlates with the lack of a functional role for larval structures in substrate selection and settlement. Although most of the larval nervous system degenerated during metamorphosis, the adoral projections and associated oral ganglia appeared to be incorporated into the juvenile mouth, suggesting a potential role for larval neurons in contributing to oral neuronal structures in the adult. S1-positive neurons and fibres in the rudiment developed de novo and in parallel with development of the epineural canal. This structure gives rise to the primordia of the adult circumoral nerve ring and radial nerves, indicating that differentiation of the adult nervous system begins in the early stages of metamorphosis.
10.2307/3226884|In considering the evolutionary relationship of Comesomatidae with Monhysterida versus Chromadorida, we adopt the hypothesis that Comesomatidae has its closest evolutionary affinity with members of Chromadorida. We conclude that mushroom-shaped and rod-like intracuticular punctations are character states of the same structure, and that the punctations in members of Comesomatidae are homologous with those in members of Achromadoridae, Cyatholaimidae, Ethmolaimidae, and Selachinematidae. We compare and contrast the appearance of multispiral amphids as seen with LM and SEM. In describing two new species of Comesomatidae, Hopperia hexadentata n. sp. and Cervonema deltensis n. sp., we document the presence of punctations for Cervonema deltensis n. sp. and discuss evidence for their occurrence among other members of the genus. We provide diagnoses for Comesomatidae, Dorylaimopsinae, Sabatieriinae, Hopperia, and Cervonema, and keys to the species of Hopperia and Cervonema, and we transfer Minolaimus from Cyatholaimidae to Sabatieriinae (Comesomatidae). We present evidence for sperm dimorphism in Cervonema deltensis n. sp. and review its occurrence among other marine nematodes.
10.2307/3226843|Elevation of the K
10.2307/3226961|Mona Island, a small uninhabited Caribbean island between Puerto Rico and Hispaniola, was surveyed for freshwater platyhelminths. Rainwater pools on the island's plateau produced two species of Typhloplanidae, a species close to Mesostoma georgianum and a new species of Mesostoma, M. tubiseminalis, herein described. The new species is diagnosed by the presence of a tubular receptaculum seminis that forms a distinct bifurcation of the female tract. Pools inhabited by both species are subject to high pH, high temperatures, and rapid evaporation. While M. cf. georgianum is quite conspicuous and creeps on the surface film, the new species lives concealed within the substrate and rock crevices of the pool.
10.2307/3226840|Although molluscan conjoined larvae are rarely observed, over 600 conjoined twin, 11 triplet, and 2 quadruplet veligers were found among 125,000 normal veligers in 118 untreated egg masses produced in the laboratory over 5 months by slipper-shell snails, Crepidula fornicata. Seven twin morphologies were recorded, but two patterns (top-to-top, side-by-side) accounted for ~80% of all twins. Twinned larvae at hatching were similar in size to normal larvae but developed more slowly. Attached co-twins developed at the same rate and metamorphosed "spontaneously" on the same day. In the presence of an artificial metamorphic cue (elevated K
10.2307/3226850|The ultrastructure of body wall muscles of the nematomorphs Nectonema munidae and Gordius aquaticus, and the structure of additional isolated muscle strands in the posterior end of males of N. manidae, are described. The body wall muscles of both species are of the coelomyarian type. In N. munidae, the extension of the protoplasmic region of the muscle cells is very large in males, much smaller in females, and there is evidence for a sarcoplasmic reticulum and t-tubules. The diameters of the thick filaments are slightly lower than previously reported values. The ultrastructure of the muscle strands in males of N. munidae resembles that of the body wall muscle cells. Filaments can be restricted to one side of the strand or can be present all the way around. In Gordius aquaticus, there is evidence that the musculature is innervated by basi-epidermal nerves, as previously described for N. munidae. The absence of circular musculature is interpreted as a synapomorphy of the Nematoda and Nematomorpha, while a polymyarian condition with coelomyarian muscle cells most probably evolved convergently in the Nematomorpha and within the Nematoda, probably more than once.
3227088| The intertidal, sibling species Littorina scutulata and L. plena (Gastropoda, Prosobranchia) are sympatric throughout most of their ranges along the Pacific coast of North America. Both species release disc-shaped, planktonic egg capsules from which planktotrophic veliger larvae hatch. Here I review existing data and present new observations on these species' life history, including age at first reproduction, spawning season, maximum fecundity rates, capsule morphology, egg size and number, pre-hatching development, larval growth at three food concentrations, potential settlement cues, planktonic period, and protoconch size. Previous classification of egg capsule morphologies used to distinguish the species is inaccurate; instead, capsules can be categorized into three types of which each species may produce two. Females of L. scutulata produced capsules with either two rims of unequal diameter or one rim, while females of L. plena produced capsules with one rim or two rims of nearly equal diameter. Females of each species spawned sporadically from early spring to early fall in Puget Sound. Larvae of L. plena hatched one day earlier than those of L. scutulata, and both species grew fastest in the laboratory at intermediate food concentrations. Larvae metamorphosed in the presence of a variety of materials collected from their adult habitat, including conspecific adults, algae, rocks, and barnacle tests. This is the first report of planktotrophic larvae in this genus metamorphosing in the laboratory. The total planktonic period of 8 larvae of L. scutulata raised in the laboratory was 37-70 days, and a single larva of L. plena metamorphosed after 62 days. Protoconch diameter of shells collected from the field was 256-436 m and did not differ significantly between the species. Previous allozyme and mitochondrial DNA work has suggested high levels of genetic variability in both species and greater genetic population structure in L. plena, despite the long spawning season and long-lived larvae in both species. The interspecific life history differences described here appear insufficient to produce consistent differences in gene flow patterns. 
10.2307/3227009|A new species of Priapulida was discovered from the Beaufort Sea near Barrow, Alaska. Following an unusually strong autumnal storm, 30 adult specimens of Halicryptus higginsi n.sp. were collected, many alive, from intertidal beaches Additional specimens were found in museum collections misidentified as Halicryptus spinulosus von Siebold 1849. The new species represents the 11th priapulid species described since 1968 and increases the number of described extant species of Priapulida to 18. While all other recently described priapulids have been meiofaunal, Halicryptus higginsi n.sp. is macrofaunal and the largest extant priapulid species, with one specimen being 39 cm long in a contracted condition.
40981223|Many sacoglossan sea slugs incorporate intact, functional chloroplasts from their algal food sources into specialized cells lining the digestive diverticulum. The chloroplasts in adults of Elysia clarki are photosynthetically functional for many months. Members of this species feed on algae in the Ulvophyceae, including species of Penicillus and Bryopsis. However, other sacoglossans (Elysia patina, Elysia rufescens, and Placida kingstoni) use similar algal food sources as do adults of E. clarki, but are unable to maintain the chloroplasts for more than a week, with individuals of P. kingstoni apparently being unable to maintain chloroplasts for >24h. We have examined chloroplast sequestering cells of these species looking for morphological differences that may help explain the variation in chloroplast sequestration and maintenance among them. Our results indicate that P. kingstoni does not actively sequester chloroplasts at all, digesting them instead. However, the plastid sequestering mechanisms of individuals of E. patina and E. rufescens are similar to those of E. clarki, and the degradation of chloroplasts by specimens of E. patina is ultrastructurally similar to the same process in E. clarki, although chloroplast degradation occurs much more slowly in individuals of E. clarki. Our results suggest that species-level differences in the digestive capability of the phagosomes involved in the uptake of chloroplasts account for variation in the length of these kleptoplastic associations.
3701464| Alpha-level taxonomy in the bryozoan order Cheilostomata relies almost exclusively on hard-part morphology. Geographical, ecophenotypic, and intracolony variation often make it difficult to distinguish intra- from interspecific variation and to recognize taxonomically informative characters. DNA sequences provide a source of data independent of morphology by which to gauge the relative reliability of various morphological characters for taxonomy. We present a case study involving a limited number of specimens of Rhynchozoon sp. from Ketchikan, Alaska to show the utility of DNA data in identifying genetic lineages for subsequent morphological analysis. The study illustrates that the use of genetic data need not involve massive, broad-scale phylogenetic studies to address problems in invertebrate -level taxonomy. Phylogeny reconstruction with a 430-bp fragment of the 16S mitochondrial ribosomal RNA gene showed two moderately diverged clades, here termed Rhynchozoon clades A and B, separated by an average genetic distance of 2.38% (K2P+). Comparison of voucher specimens by scanning electron microscopy showed two congruent, morphologically distinct forms (forms A and B, respectively) distinguishable by a polythetic suite of characters including degree of frontal costation, range of spine number, number of beads on the primary orifice, number of areolar pores, and peri-orificial sculpturing. Orifice shape and ovicell form proved not to be good diagnostic characters. The status of the two forms as biological species is unclear, although maintenance of distinct suites of morphological characters in the two mitochondrial lineages suggests they may be reproductively isolated from one another. For Rhynchozoon form B, which tends to have a highly costate frontal wall, we suggest a resurrection of the name Rhynchozoon tumulosum, which had been previously synonymized with R. rostratum. Rhynchozoon form A may be conspecific with "Rhynchozoon sp. A" previously reported from Washington state. 
10.2307/3226934| During reproduction, the lateral (outer) demibranchs of the unionid mussel Pyganodon cataracta function in brooding females as marsupia in addition to serving in gas exchange, feeding, and ion transport. Recent studies indicate that glochidial brooding reduces clearance rates and particle retention efficiencies, but the opaque shell prevents direct observations of suspension feeding structures and makes it difficult to identify the underlying causes of the changes in feeding dynamics. In this study, video endoscopic techniques were used to describe and compare, in vivo, the feeding structures and dynamics of brooding and non-brooding females. Although circulation within the mantle cavity was slightly altered by the enlarged lateral (gravid) gills of brooding females, both medial and lateral gills continued to retain and process particles. During brooding, circulation through medial gills was maintained by the construction of secondary water tubes near the medial and lateral ends of the brood chambers. In vivo monitoring of particles retained by the frontal surface of the gill indicated that transport rates for particles processed by gravid gills of brooders were significantly slower than on lateral gills of non-brooders or on medial gills. Similarly, gravid gills were less efficient at retaining small particles (<6 m) than medial or non-gravid lateral gills. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that observed reductions in particle clearance rates and retention efficiencies in brooding female mussels are the result of functional changes in the ciliature and flow dynamics of the marsupial gills. Moreover, similar mechanisms mediating particle capture and processing on medial demibranchs appear to be unaffected by the presence of developing glochidia in the water tubes of the lateral gills. 
40206216|The differentiation of the female reproductive system from a macroscopic and microscopic point of view was studied in Cherax quadricarinatus. For this characterization, 184 females were dissected and processed for the histological analysis. From the differentiation of the ovary up to its maturity, three ovarian morphotypes could be distinguished macroscopically: parallel strands without any contact between them, an H-shaped ovary, and a Yshaped ovary. These morphotypes were compared within the Astacida. Four ovarian developmental stages were recognized based on ovary color, and the histological structure and relative proportion of cellular types. The post-spawning ovary was also characterized. The components of the female reproductive system sheath were described and its modifications in the ovary and oviducts were determined and compared. Theoretical aspects of the study of sexual differentiation in C. quadricarinatus were discussed within a phylogenetic framework.
3701449| The sabellid polychaete, Terebrasabella heterouncinata, forms burrows in gastropod shells. It is a small, intratubular brooder that breeds semi-continuously. It has been shown to self-fertilize, but its reproductive biology suggests that some form of sperm transfer must occur between individuals. To gain an understanding of its fertilization biology, the ultrastructure of spermiogenesis and the sperm in T. heterouncinata was described, and the animal examined for sperm storage structures. Spermiogenesis occurs in clusters of eight spermatids. The mature sperm has an elongate nucleus and a bilaterally symmetrical acrosome with twisted sub-acrosomal spaces. The midpiece is short, with three crescent-shaped mitochondria, and forms a tight sheath around the axoneme. A single spermatheca, which opens on the inner ventral part of the crown near the buccal region, is present. It is a simple blind-ending duct that runs below the ventral nerve cord and is longer than 100 m. This is the first record of a single spermatheca in Sabellidae. The shape of the sperm and the presence of a spermatheca confirm that individuals of T. heterouncinata produce ent-aquasperm and would normally cross-fertilize. 
3227117|In vitro and in vivo studies confirmed endocytic activity of free phagocytic amebocytes in Lytechinus variegatus. Amebocytes in the perivisceral coelom were labeled with injected ferritin, and ferritin-labeled amebocytes were found in the peristomial connective tissue only one hour after injection of India ink or yeast into this tissue. The presence of ferritin inside the amebocytes indicates that these cells migrated from the perivisceral coelom to the peristomial connective tissue. After 24 hours, particles of India ink or yeast were observed inside the ferritin-labeled amebocytes, indicating the amebocytes' ability to respond to an inflammatory stimulus. These were the only inflammatory cells found in L. variegatus, using the above mentioned stimuli and time spans.
3701514|The localization of vitellogenin (Vg) remains untested in amphioxus. Western blotting analysis showed that mouse anti-amphioxus Vg sera cross-reacted with the crude extracts of the hepatic diverticulum and ovary, and humoral fluids, including blood and coelomic fluid, from specimens of Branchiostoma belcheri. Similarly, immunohistochemical staining also revealed that Vg is localized in the hepatic diverticulum, sub-intestinal vessels, and ovary in amphioxus. The hepatic diverticulum of amphioxus, like the vertebrate liver, synthesizes Vg, suggesting that amphioxus hepatic diverticulum is functionally equivalent to the vertebrate liver in respect of the synthesis of this compound. This agrees with the idea that amphioxus hepatic diverticulum is the precursor of vertebrate liver.
3227235|In this study, we investigated a functional trade-off between trunk attachment and trunk-spine development in the acanthocephalan Corynosoma cetaceum. The worms live attached to the stomach and upper intestine of their cetacean definitive hosts, using the proboscis and spiny foretrunk as the main holdfast; the spiny hindtrunk can also attach by bending ventrally. When the hindtrunk bends, ventral compression generates an anterior fold (AF) and a posterior fold (PF). A morphological analysis based on 7,823 individuals collected from 10 franciscana dolphins, Pontoporia blainvillei, revealed that spines were smaller and more variable in size and occurrence in the folds than on neighboring areas; the growth of fold spines seemed to be inhibited to various degrees. Spines were more reduced in the AF than in the PF, and spines of both folds were more reduced in females than in males. Patterns of reduction appeared to be directly related to the intensity of fold compression associated with hindtrunk bending. Fold compression could induce plastic inhibition of spine growth, and/or could make fold spines maladaptive, spines being reduced by natural selection. Apparently, fold spines neither contact the substrate, nor are they exposed to the environment when the hindtrunk attaches. Therefore, fold spines could have reduced, or lost, their primary function, at least in the definitive host. The reduction and variability of spines in C. cetaceum seem to be unique among Corynosoma species.
3227229|The parasitic ciliate Orchitophrya stellarum was found in the testes of brooding, winter-spawning Leptasterias spp. from San Juan Island, Washington, but not in the testes of Leptasterias spp. from the Lynn Canal, Alaska. Dense populations of the ciliate were localized within the fuller areas of testes, where sperm counts were significantly reduced. The ciliates were loaded with phagosomes, some of which contained sperms in various stages of digestion. Leptasterias spp. are not as severely impacted by this ciliated protozoan parasite as Pisaster ochraceus. Leptasterias spp. may serve as seasonal hosts for O. stellarum; this ciliate lives in seawater and in ripe males of winter-brooding and spring-summer broadcasting sea stars. The wet weight of parasitized and non-parasitized males did not differ. The sex ratio did not deviate from the expected (1:1) in any population except at Point Louisa, Alaska, where males outnumbered females. Testis indexes of parasitized males from 2 of the 4 locations on San Juan Island, Washington were significantly reduced relative to non-parasitized males, indicating a loss of sperm output during spawning.
3701461|The majority of the published data about the reproductive biology of the decapod shrimp, Hippolyte inermis support the idea that this species is a protandric hermaphrodite, as is reported to be the case for certain other caridean species. However, our studies, based on the relative growth of the male reproductive appendage and histological examinations of the ovary, testes, oviducts, and deferentia vasa, indicate that there is no evidence supporting the occurrence of protandry. The first report of anomalies in the process of sexual inversion is credited to Reverberi (1950); however, we have obtained no evidence to support this phenomenon in H. inermis. We have not found either ovotestes or testes transforming into ovotestes. Therefore, we propose that H. inermis is a gonochoric species.
3227068|The mode of formation of the molluscan exoskeleton is still poorly understood, but studies on adult snails indicate that enzymes involved in vertebrate bone formation also participate in mollusc shell formation. The enzymes peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase, and acid phosphatase are expressed in a constant pattern and help to identify the different zones of the adult shell-forming tissue. The present study evaluates whether the expression of these enzymes is also a tool for the identification of the developing zones of the embryonic shell-forming tissue. Thus, we analyzed the temporal and spatial activity of the above-mentioned enzymes and of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase in the shell forming tissues in Biomphalaria glabrata. Embryos of different age groups and adults were studied; alkaline phosphatase activity was seen in very young embryos in the shell field invagination prior to the secretion of any shell material, while peroxidase activity was present from the start of the periostracum production. Acid phosphatase, found in considerable amounts in yolk granules and albumen cells, appeared in the embryonic shell-forming tissue in relatively few Golgi stacks. Tartrate-resistant phosphatase was not present in embryos, but was found in adults in the same zone of the mantle edge as acid phosphatase. Using the enzymes as cell markers, the differentiation of the embryonic shellforming tissue to the different zones of the adult mantle edge could clearly be followed.
40663873|The relationship of the polychaete taxa Syllidae and Sphaerodoridae within Phyllodocida is still unresolved: phylogenetic analyses either show them as sister groups or more widely separated. The present article aims to provide information about the structure of the muscular system that could be essential for understanding their relationship. A crucial point is whether the body wall contains circular muscles, which has recently been shown to be absent in more taxa than previously known. The F-actin filaments in members of Myrianida prolifera (Syllidae) and Sphaerodoropsis sp. (Sphaerodoridae) were labeled with phalloidin and their three-dimensional relationships reconstructed by means of confocal laser scanning microscopy. Among the noteworthy differences that emerged between the species are (1) members of M. prolifera possess four, those  Sphaerodoropsis sp. eight, longitudinal muscle strands; (2) the body wall in M. prolifera contains transverse fibers in a typical, supralongitudinal position, while in Sphaerodoropsis sp., corresponding fibers lie beneath the longitudinal strands; (3) pro- and peristomium in M. prolifera have no distinct F-actin fibers, while five longitudinal pairs and three single transverse muscular fibers shape the anterior end in Sphaerodoropsis sp.; (4) the pro ventricle of M. prolifera comprises primarily radial muscle fibers arranged in distinct rows, while in Sphaerodoropsis sp. the axial proboscis consists of longitudinal and circular fibers and radial fibers are lacking; (5) in M. prolifera, the proximal and distal sections of the two anteriormost pairs of dorsal cirri possess longitudinal myofilaments, which are separate from the body wall musculature; by contrast, all appendages in Sphaerodoropsis sp. do not; (6) both species have bracing muscles: in M. prolifera they are positioned above the longitudinal fibers, whereas in Sphaerodoropsis sp. they are uniquely positioned between longitudinal and sublongitudinal transverse fibers. These results do not support a sister-group relationship of Syllidae and Sphaerodoridae. In addition, Sphaerodoropsis sp. is yet another example in the list of polychaetes lacking typical circular muscles in the body wall.
40206235|The ophiuroid Amphipholis kochii is able to detach its central disc from the underlying oral frame in response to external stimuli. In this article we supply new observations on the microanatomy and ultrastructure of the autotomy plane, and of the juxtaligamental system which is believed to bring about connective tissue changes that underpin the detachment process. We correct previous confusion over the innervation of juxtaligamental nodes involved in disc autotomy, provide evidence that juxtaligamental cells are a population of specialized nerve cells, and present observations on changes in the ultrastructure of juxtaligamental cells during autotomy, which support the view that they are responsible for connective tissue disruption.
3227067|Palaeosoma balticus n. g., n. sp. (Rhabdocoela, Typhloplanoida), the oldest body fossil of a turbellarian and the first representative of the phylum Platyhelminthes found in fossilized resin, is described from Baltic amber 40 million years old. Characters of the fossil turbellarian are epidermal cilia, rhabdoids, a rosulate pharynx, adhesive papillae, and sensory bristles. The body cavity contains developing eggs or capsules. The fossil demonstrates that rhabdocoels had developed a terrestrial habit and were producing subitaneous eggs by the Eocene. A summary of the fossil and sub-fossil records of platyhelminths is presented.
3227205|The development of the genital apparatus is described for the echinoid Paracentrotus lividus. This apparatus derives from the aboral ring, an annular structure that includes an inconspicuous coelom and, in juveniles, the germinal rachis. The germinal epithelium grows out from the germinal rachis, and the gonadal wall and coelom in early (tubular) gonads share similarities with their equivalents in the aboral ring. The original germinal rachis regresses to form a genital cord one cell wide in late juveniles. A genital cord was observed in a few field-collected adult individuals (>40 mm test diameter).
3227115|In an ultrastructural study of the apical antenna of the last nymphal stages of Libellula depressa (Odonata: Libellulidae), we found long sensilla trichodea, 2 sensory pegs, and a coeloconic sensillum on the last article of the flagellum (the distal part of the antenna). The long sensilla trichodea are mechanoreceptors, almost identical to the long filiform hairs of some terrestrial insects and the first sensilla of this kind to be described in aquatic insects. Particular attention was given to the complex coeloconic sensillum, a compound sensillum innervated by 2 groups of 3 neurons wrapped in a dendritic sheath. A cuticular sleeve envelops the distal portion of the outer dendritic segment. The cuticle of the coeloconic sensillum shows wide channels and is contiguous to the underlying granular and fibrillar layer. Similar structures on the antennae of the adults of other dragonflies were identified as chemoreceptors in previous studies. We hypothesize that this larval coeloconic sensillum might likewise have a chemosensory function, responding to molecules that diffuse through the cuticle and the underlying granular and fibrillar layer, as no clear pore or pore-tubule system is visible. Alternative functions are also explored on the basis of morphological details.
3227083|The albumen gland is a female accessory sex gland that synthesizes and secretes perivitelline fluid around pulmonate eggs. The perivitelline fluid is composed of mainly galactogen and proteins, and is thought to provide nourishment to the embryos during development. We have previously identified the major secretory protein of the albumen gland of the freshwater snail Helisoma duryi as a native glycoprotein of ~288 kDa, consisting of four 66kDa subunits. In this study, the major albumen gland protein in H. duryi was purified, cloned, and the full-length cDNA sequence determined. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that the albumen gland protein (HdAGP) shared 83% identity with a partial cDNA sequence from a developmentally regulated albumen gland protein in Biomphalaria glabrata. The HdAGP mRNA was detected by RT-PCR in the albumen gland, ovotestis, mantle and digestive gland. SDS-PAGE analysis of the albumen gland protein in egg masses at different stages of development showed that the amount of HdAGP steadily decreased during embryogenesis, suggesting its possible catabolism by the developing embryos. Protein domain searches suggested that the HdAGP shared limited sequence identity, and adopted a similar three-dimensional conformation to the bactericidal, permeability increasing, protein family, raising the possibility of a potential bactericidal function for this important reproductive/developmental protein.
3701474|Historically, characters from early animal development have been a potentially rich source of phylogenetic information, but many traits associated with the gametes and larval stages of animals with complex life cycles are widely suspected to have evolved frequent convergent similarities. Such convergences will confound true phylogenetic relationships. We compared phylogenetic inferences based on early life history traits with those from mitochondrial DNA sequences for sea stars in the genera Asterina, Cryptasterina, and Patiriella (Valvatida: Asterinidae). Analysis of these two character sets produced phylogenies that shared few clades. We quantified the degree of homoplasy in each character set when mapped onto the phylogeny inferred from the alternative characters. The incongruence between early life history and nucleotide characters implies more homoplasy in the life history character set. We suggest that the early life history traits in this case are most likely to be misleading as phylogenetic characters because simple adaptive models predict convergence in early life histories. We show that adding early life history characters may slightly improve a phylogeny based on nucleotide sequences, but adding nucleotide characters may be critically important to improving inferences from phylogenies based on early life history characters.
10.2307/3226900|Experiments were conducted to evaluate the effect of different macrophytes on the distribution of grass shrimps. Populations of Palaemonetes pugio and P. vulgaris were placed separately, then together, in an experimental (aquarium) environment comprising equal areas of four microhabitats: an area of unvegetated gravel, an area containing plastic plants resembling Ambulia, and areas with live thalli of the flat green alga Ulva or the branched green alga Codium. The distribution of individuals of P. vulgaris among the microhabitats (3% on bare gravel, 10% on "Ambulia," 15% on Ulva, 63% on Codium) did not change significantly when this species was mixed with P. pugio. The distribution of P. pugio alone was much like that of P. vulgaris, but it did change significantly when P. vulgaris was present (from 3 to 7% on gravel, 10 to 16% on "Ambulia," 19 to 29% on Ulva, 63 to 44% on Codium). Characteristics of the macrophytes (physical complexity, availability of food items) and the shrimps (residual predator conditioning, interspecific agonistic contacts) are suggested as factors in the distributions observed.
10.2307/3227029| The development of the azooxanthellate octocoral Dendronephthya hemprichi from spawned gametes to planula larvae has been described, using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Development of fertilized eggs is holoblastic, occurring until the 32-cell stage either by superficial divisions or by total cleavage. The pseudospiral development from the eight-cell stage leads to round stereoblastulae, followed by the appearance of embryos with bizarre forms. All developmental stages until the mature planulae are negatively buoyant. The planulae have a densely flagellated surface, and swim actively. The duration of development to mature planulae followed a seasonal pattern, ranging between 27-45 h from summer (at 26C) to winter (at 20-21C), and probably reflected temperature effects. Similarly, in summer the first cleavage furrow was observed 2 h after mixing the gametes, whereas in winter this did not occur for at least 4 h. A significant variation was noted in egg diameter and planulae size from different colonies collected at the same time (December 1990). Longevity and maximal competency periods of 100 and 65 days, respectively, were found for the planulae during July-September 1990, suggesting a potential for long distance dispersal in the reef environment. 
40206193|Many animals have the ability to delay metamorphosis when conditions are unfavorable. This strategy carries obvious benefits, but may also result in severe consequences for lecithotrophic larvae that run low on time and energy. Precocious activation of postlarval developmental programs--so-called anticipatory development--may be adaptive and increase the survival of older, energy-depleted larvae by allowing more rapid metamorphosis. Three of six solitary ascidian species displayed extensive anticipatory development of postlarval structures, similar to heterochronies normally observed for colonial species. The capacity for anticipatory development may be linked to the length of competent period, taxonomic group, or both: members of suborder Phlebobranchia exhibited extensive anticipatory development and long competent periods, but members of suborder Stolidobranchia exhibited little or no anticipatory development and had shorter competent periods. Delay of metamorphosis of up to 3 d did not negatively impact postlarval and juvenile growth rates for any of three species tested, regardless of taxonomic group or length of competent period, although a longer, 7-d, delay resulted in slower postlarval growth in Ciona intestinalis. Anticipatory development of postlarval structures may ameliorate the negative consequences of delay of metamorphosis in C. intestinalis and Ascidiella aspersa, but Molgula socialis showed neither anticipatory development nor a negative impact of metamorphic delay on postlarval fitness. This is the first demonstration that anticipatory development of postlarval structures, normally associated only with colonial ascidians, can occur as a normal part of the development of solitary ascidians.
4621923|In the newly hatched larva in Allacma fusca, the midgut epithelium was fully developed and formed by flattened epithelial cells surrounding the yolk mass in the midgut lumen. Immediately after hatching, the first larva began to feed; the migut lumen was filled with the yolk mass and food (mainly algae). Regenerative cells typical of the developing midgut epithelium of many insects were not observed. Initially, midgut cells of the larva were cuboidal but became columnar in shape with distinct regionalization in the distribution of cell organelles. Furthermore, urospherites appeared in the midgut cell cytoplasm, i.e., structures characteristic for the midgut epithelium of insects having no Malpighian tubules. As a result, cells with the capacity for digestion, absorption, and excretion were observed to be completely formed in the first larval stage.
3227215|The adoral sense organ in bivalve molluscs is a paired ridge of specialized epithelium positioned laterally at the base of the labial palps near the mouth opening, clearly distinguishable from the surrounding epithelia. Six species of the protobranch order Nuculoida, and one species of Solemyoida, were investigated by light microscopy concerning presence, gross anatomy, and innervation of the adoral sense organ. The organ was described in detail for Nucula nucleus and N. nitidosa by transmission electron microscopy; in these two species, the organ was characterized as a pseudostratified epithelial thickening with specialized cells bearing a specialized microvillar border and a basal matrix with a lamellar layer. Three types of bipolar primary receptor cells were recognized and these were reconstructed for N. nucleus. Most of the receptor cells had 2 cilia orientated parallel to the cell surface; in addition, there were 2 types of supporting cells and 1 type of basal cell. The surrounding epithelial cells were narrow with short microvilli and lacked cilia. The homology of the organ within protobranch bivalves was suggested by a character-complex of: (1) position, (2) dimension of the epithelium, (3) innervation, (4) pseudostratified construction, (5) dimension of the specialized microvillar border, (6) thickening of the basal matrix, and (7) presence of specialized cell types such as receptor cells. Despite the estimated high number of protobranch species there is only scant information available on the adoral sense organ from 24 species of 8 genera. Structures and receptor types that are similar to those found in the adoral sense organ are widespread in molluscs and other invertebrate groups; this may indicate a plesiomorphy of these characters rather than an apomorphy for the protobranch clade. Therefore, the adoral sense organ may be of minor phylogenetic value above the level of protobranch orders.
3227142|In species of the monogenean helminth Gyrodactylus, the opisthaptor is the main organ of attachment to the host. The opisthaptor comprises two large centrally positioned hooks or hamuli and sixteen peripherally distributed marginal hooks. This paper describes the functional morphology and the mechanism and sequence of attachment in this species. Information on the attachment process was gathered from observations of live gyrodactylids, from transmission electron microscopy, from scanning electron microscopy of skeletal elements, and by histochemical and X-ray elemental analysis of hook chemical composition. The marginal hooks provide the principal force of attachment whilst the hamuli are not actively employed in the process of attachment. Instead, the hamuli provide a system preventing accidental dislodgement and assist the action of the marginal hooks. Attachment is achieved by the alternating action of two systems of muscles attached respectively to the hamuli and to the marginal hooks. Relaxation or contraction of the muscles connected to the hamuli manoeuvres the hamuli over the extremities of the accessory ventral bar and allows them to pivot around their longitudinal axis, effectively raising or lowering the opisthaptoral dome. Under reduced opisthaptoral tension, the independent gaffing activity of the marginal hooks ensures a secure attachment to the host's epidermis. Repositioning of the hamuli then raises the opisthaptoral dome to tension the peripheral marginal hooks. The sequence of attachment is complete when all the muscles associated with the hooks are in a state of relaxation but are held securely and under tension by the surrounding, stretched, opisthaptoral dome.
25623061|We present the first report on the use of the non-invasive method of synchrotron X-ray microtomography to model the dynamics and theoretical bite forces of arthropod mouthparts. The nature of the data allowed us to include precise measurements of muscle areas and the spatial geometry of muscle origins and insertions into a biomechanical model of a morphological microstructure. We investigated the functional morphology of the chelicera in the oribatid mite Archegozetes longisetosus (Acari, Oribatida), a model organism for Chelicerata. The chelicera represents a first-class lever; the intrinsic muscular system consists of a feather-shaped depressor with six muscle bundles and a bouquet-shaped levator with 16 bundles. The relative bite forces, as compared with body mass $(\text{force}/\text{mass}^{2/3})$ , are 390 N kg and lie within those known for vertebrates (260 N kg) and decapod chelae (915 N kg). The dynamics of force transmission and bite forces during the movement of the apotele are calculated. The conserved organization of cheliceral musculature allows broad adaptation of the model to other chelicerate taxa.
10.2307/3226925|Many temperate ascidians reproduce seasonally but the factors controlling their gametogenic cycles have not been experimentally demonstrated. I tested the effects of daylength on gametogenesis in three ascidians (Boltenia villosa, Styela gibbsii, and Chelyosoma productum) by exposing animals to normal or reversed light cycles and measuring gonad and oocyte sizes. Under a normal cycle, all species followed patterns reported for field populations. B. villosa showed evidence of continuous reproduction; S. gibbsii and C. productum spawned primarily in the spring (though a secondary mid-winter spawn may also have occurred in S. gibbsii). Altering the light cycle demonstrated that the gametogenic cues differ in these three species. Gametogenesis in B. villosa and S. gibbsii was largely unaffected by a reversed light treatment but the cycle of C. productum was dramatically changed. Even in C. productum, however, the gametogenic cycle was not completely reset in the 12-month experiment. This suggests that other factors (e.g., temperature, endogenous rhythms) contribute to gametogenic control. Longer-term experiments are needed to establish the relative importance of light cycle in these species.
4621898|A new interstitial loriciferan, Nanaloricus gwenae sp. nov., is described from coarse-sand and shell-hash habitats (Amphioxus sand), at 15-17 m depth, 6-7 miles off the coast of Fort Pierce, FL, USA. The new species is very closely related to the type species Nanaloricus mysticus found off the coast of Roscoff, France in nearly the same kind of sediment (Dentalium sand). All life stages (Higgins larva, postlarva, and adult) in the life cycle of the new species were found through the 10-year investigation, leading to the conclusion that all species of Nanaloricidae have only a sexual reproductive cycle. The adult of the new species can be distinguished by the different body shape, the lorical spikes and sculpture, and the shape of the scalids. The postlarva has stronger longitudinal ridges on the lorical plates and the Higgins larva has toes with smaller mucrones than those of N. mysticus. An emended definition of the Nanaloricidae is provided based on the new formula of the number of rows and shape of the scalids on the introvert. The associated meiofauna found in the subtidal sand or shell hash is both abundant and diverse. Tardigrades, gastrotrichs, and kinorhynchs are among the most common associates. N. gwenae sp. nov. is represented by only eight specimens collected during a 10-year period of sampling this habitat.
23016261|The effects of spatial competition among colonial marine organisms are often evident in the contact zones between colonies. These effects are especially pronounced when the interaction results in overgrowth or necrosis of one of the competitors. Ascidians, one of the dominant taxonomic groups in subtidal sessile communities, have specialized morula cells that provide a defense against microbial infections. Injuries resulting from interspecific competitive interactions might also act as a stimulus for this defensive mechanism. Therefore, we expected to see the recruitment of morula cells in tissues near competitor contact zones. To test the hypothesis that spatial competition elicits this immune response, we placed colonies of the ascidian Didemnum perlucidum from southeastern Brazil in four different types of competitive situations: (1) overgrowth of the competitor, (2) stand-off interactions, (3) overgrowth by the competitor, and (4) free of competitors. Our results indicate that competitive interactions increase the population of morula cells in contact zones, as more cells were observed in interactions that resulted in the overgrowth of individuals of D. perlucidum, and fewer cells were observed in colonies that were free of competitors. We identified the defensive function of the morula cells by showing the presence of the enzyme phenoloxidase within its vacuoles. Phenoloxidase is a widespread enzyme among animals and plants, and is frequently used in defense by synthesizing toxic quinones from polyphenol substrates. This is the first study to document the presence of morula cells in didemnid ascidians and the mobilization of these cells by spatial competition by heterospecifics, and one of the first studies to identify phenoloxidase activity in morula cells.
10.2307/3226860|In Dugesia gonocephala, unlike other planarians, the cells of the copulatory bursa fulfill both a secretory and phagocytic function. Enzymes are synthesized in the absence of a spermatophore and are secreted into the lumen of the bursa when a spermatophore is received from a partner. During the days following copulation, seminal material is engulfed by the cells through cytoplasmic protrusions that extend into the lumen of the bursa. This material disintegrates and, as a result, the cells are filled with phagosomes of different sizes 3-4 days after copulation. Sperm cells are also digested in phagocytic cells that line the proximal side of the vitellarian follicles. Upon arrival in the lumen of the sperm receptacles, sperms penetrate the surrounding epithelial cells.
3701488|The reproduction of the demosponge Chondrilla nucula in Portofino (Ligurian Sea, Italy) was studied during August 2001. Eighteen individuals were sampled and examined with light microscopy for the presence of gametes, and 5 individuals carrying oocytes were found. In addition to microscopic observations, reproductive individuals could be easily identified as female even at the macroscopic level because of the presence of a grayish layer in the mesohyl where oocytes were concentrated. Oogenesis resulted in modifications of the external sponge morphology and of the aquiferous system. Approximately one-third of the sponge body was filled with oocytes with the consequent disappearance of choanocyte chambers in the reproductive portion of the sponge. Under laboratory conditions, we obtained fertilized eggs from females and observed the first stages of embryonic development. Our observations suggest that fertilization in specimens of Chondrilla nucula occurs internally and not in the water. During the 2 years following these observations, no reproductive specimens were found among the same population during the reported reproductive period.
10.2307/3226901|Calcium (Ca
40981229|Three morphotypespurple, tan, and whiteof an irregular echinoid of the genus Echinocrepis are commonly observed in the deep North Pacific Ocean. Mitochondrial (mt) 16S DNA and cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) DNA sequences were amplified from gonadal tissue samples from specimens of each morphotype. These portions of the mitochondrial genome are commonly used in species barcoding, and their similarities were compared and placed in 95% connection limit parsimony networks. All three morphotypes have similar 16S mtDNA and COI mtDNA sequences, and are thus likely representatives of the same species, Echinocrepis rostrata. Specimens of the white morphotype were smaller than the specimens of the other two morphotypes, had less gonad tissue, and had a different body shape, suggesting that it represents the juvenile form of E. rostrata. Resolving the three morphotypes into one species simplifies the identification of E. rostrata from photographs and leads to a greater understanding of the life history and reproductive cycle of a species vital to deep-sea bioturbation and carbon sequestration.
10.2307/3226979|Bryozoans rid themselves of fecal pellets using a more complex and varied set of behaviors than might be expected from their body plan and feeding behavior. In bryozoans from the northern Adriatic Sea and in Bogue Sound, North Carolina, expelled pellets traveled along one of four pathways to leave the zooid. In two of these pathways, fecal pellets were drawn into the lophophore in the direction opposite to the feeding current. Each pellet entered the lophophore through a temporary gap created between the two tentacles closest to the anus. Once in the lophophore, the pellet was propelled through the lophophore beyond the tentacle tips or it was drawn back through the entry gap and carried away in the outflow of filtered water. In other zooids, pellets did not enter the lophophore but were carried away, along the surface of the colony, in the flow of filtered water or were moved along the exterior of the extended lophophore to escape beyond the tentacle tips. A large majority of the Adriatic zooids and nearly half of the Carolina zooids expelled pellets that traveled into the lophophore. In many species studied, zooids rid themselves of pellets along at least two different pathways. Apparently, zooids respond to local flow environment and direct fecal pellets in appropriate directions to flush them away from the colony surface.
23016257|Autotomy of the elytra (scales) in the annelid Alentia gelatinosa occurs at a breakage plane near the junction between the elytron and its elytrophore (stalk), and requires fracture of the external epidermal cuticle. The mechanism of cuticular fracture was investigated by light and electron microscopy, glycoconjugate histochemistry, direct observation of autotomy in isolated preparations, and mechanical tests. The breakage plane crosses the elytrophoral wall at a cuticular thickening and passes through the subelytral cavity between the elytron and the terminal septum of the elytrophore. At the cuticular breakage zone (CBZ), the collagenous framework of the normal cuticle is replaced with non-collagenous microfibrils. The CBZ has a complex glycoconjugate composition and includes a strongly sulfated, uronic acid-containing glycosaminoglycan and a high proportion of disulfide or sulfydryl linkages. Tonofilament-rich epidermal cells (tendon cells) are attached to the thick cuticle on the dorsal and ventral sides of the CBZ. Dorsal tendon cells have long processes that extend into the elytron near the roof of the subelytral cavity. Ventral tendon cells are linked by connective tissue to the longitudinal and terminal sphincter muscles of the elytrophore. Mechanical tests showed that the elytrophoral wall is not inherently weaker at the autotomy plane than elsewhere. It is hypothesized that at autotomy (i) contractile force generated by the sphincter muscle is transmitted through elytrophoral tendon cells to the ventral side of the CBZ and (ii) contraction of the longitudinal and main circular muscles of the elytrophore increases hydrostatic pressure in its lumen, everts the terminal septum, and generates tension that is transmitted through elytral tendon cells to the dorsal side of the CBZ. This results in stress concentration at the basal edge of the CBZ and initiates fracture. The distinctive microstructure and macromolecular composition of the CBZ may reduce its fracture toughness and make it more susceptible to brittle failure.
3701485|The anterior lateral arteries are paired vessels leaving the anterior end of the lobster (Homarus americanus) heart and proceeding to the antennae and eyestalks, the stomach and hepatopancreas, the gonads, and the thoracic and branchial muscles. These vessels have a trilaminar organization, consisting of a tunica interna with elastic fibrils, a tunica intermedia represented by a bilayered cell mass, and a tunica externa with collagen fibrils. In the tunica intermedia, cells flanking the tunica interna (light cells) show less affinity for basic dyes and electron stains than those flanking the tunica externa (dark cells). Each light cell exhibits an irregularly shaped stress fiber (a bundle of closely packed microfilaments) in the region adjoining the tunica interna. Collectively, these bundles have a circumferential or slightly oblique orientation relative to the lumen of the vessel. The role of the stress fibers is unresolved. If they are static structures, they might contribute to the non-linear elasticity shown by lobster arteries. If they generate force, and small bundles of microfilaments do diverge from the stress fibers to enter filamentous mats applied to the plasmalemmata, a coordinated contraction of the cells might reduce the luminal diameter and, thus, retard the flow of hemolymph. Coordination of contraction would have to occur in the absence of nerves and without the benefit of communicating (gap) junctions between the light and dark cells.
40206244|We have collected evidence that the nominal species, Polydora cornuta Bosc 1802, contains at least three separate species in North America. Specimens of P. cornuta were collected in California, Florida, and Maine, raised in the laboratory, and assessed for reproductive compatibility, genetic similarity, gamete characteristics, and developmental rates. Reproductive crosses between each combination of sex and population revealed variable levels of hybridization at the level of fertilization. Percent fertilization was very low for all combinations (0-7%) except for California females crossed with Florida males (42%). In all interpopulation crosses, fertilized eggs arrested in cleavage and no viable larvae were produced. All pairwise comparisons of the studied populations showed significant differences in multiple reproductive traits. Mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I DNA sequences revealed large differences between Florida and California worms with a maximum likelihood genetic distance of d=0.860, while Florida and Maine worms were d=0.806, and California and Maine d=0.156. California and New Zealand worms were very similar genetically (d=0.010). These data strongly suggest that populations of P. cornuta in North America comprise a cryptic species complex composed of at least three distinct lineages.
10.2307/3227045|Bryozobia synaptos n. gen., n. sp., from the Grand Recif of Madagascar and the Mascarene Plateau north of Mauritius, is the only cirriped known that has evolved an intimate association with cheilostome bryozoans. This small barnacle settles on a bryozoan colony and in time overgrows a number of zooids, modifying its shell to accommodate them by developing numerous passages (atria) through its basis and wall by a process involving substrate replication. Calcareous, tubular passages formed in the basis of the barnacle grow radially, keeping pace with marginal growth of the barnacle's wall. Eventually, the openings to the zooecial tubes at the wall margin are encircled by the barnacle, thereby forming the first whorl of atria through which the bryozoan deploys its lophophores. During subsequent growth the process is repeated once or twice more. We hypothesize that this is a co-evolutionary relationship and is mutually adaptive in a number of ways. In particular, the bryozoan benefits by having zooids survive that otherwise would have been buried and by the barnacle functioning as a site for one of its excurrent chimneys. The barnacle may benefit from the flow of edible debris and waste-laden currents associated with such chimneys and from disruptive camouflage created by the bryozoan lophophores.
25623059|The speciose tropical soft coral genus Sinularia traditionally has been divided into five intrageneric taxonomic groups based on variation in a single morphological character: the shape of the club sclerites (calcite skeletal elements) embedded in the surface tissues of the colony. To test the phylogenetic utility of this system of classification, we used a 735-bp fragment of the octocoral-specific mitochondrial msh1 gene to construct a molecular phylogeny that included 80 of the 150 recognized morphospecies of Sinularia. The msh1 phylogeny recovered five well-supported clades, but they were not congruent with the traditional intrageneric taxonomic groups. Mapping of characters onto the tree suggested that the five major clades plus several additional sub-clades of Sinularia can be distinguished based on a suite of four morphological characters; these include the presence of sclerites in the tentacle, collaret, and point regions of the polyps, in addition to the shape of the club sclerites in the surface tissues. The overall growth form of the colony also distinguishes some clades. Polyp sclerites have for the most part been overlooked taxonomically in Sinularia, and as a result information on these characters is lacking or is incorrect in many species descriptions. As has been the case in other recent studies of lower metazoan groups, construction of a molecular phylogeny has led us to recognize the phylogenetic and taxonomic importance of previously overlooked morphological characters. A revised taxonomic key that includes these characters is already improving our ability to discriminate species boundaries, and facilitating description of new Sinularia species.
4621910|The hypothesis that infecting trematodes influence the spatial distribution of the estuarine snail Ilyanassa obsoleta was tested. This work was conducted in the Savages Ditch habitat, Rehoboth Bay, DE, USA, which has an essentially flat, sandy-mud bottom bordered by saltmarsh shorelines and many infected snails. In 1996, two groups of snails were individually marked and released from one location after being screened for trematode infections. One group, transplanted from sites where snails tended not to be infected, consisted of snails that tested as uninfected. The other group consisted of snails native to Savages Ditch. Species of trematode carried by each snail was recorded. Marked snails were found and their positions were recorded until 2001. Snails were in five infection categories: (1) not infected, and infected with (2) Himasthla quissetensis, or (3) Lepocreadium setiferoides, or (4) Zoogonus rubellus, or (5) with both H. quissetensis and Z. rubellus. The results show that the spatial distributions of snails depended on whether or not they were infected and, if infected, on which trematode species they carried. To complete life cycles, these parasites must accomplish transmission from the first (the snail) to the second intermediate hosts by short-lived, swimming cercariae. These data do not allow resolution of why snails distributed as they did, but sighting distributions of infected snails can be related to distributions of second hosts and it is proposed that parasites engender host snail distributions that improve chances of transmission.
25623062|Fine morphological details of the genitalia have large potential consequences for the understanding of the reproductive biology of a particular species, especially when mating behavioral studies are difficult to conduct. Oonopidae are a highly diverse spider family comprising a variety of species with complex female reproductive systems, which may have evolved under sexual selection by cryptic female choice. The present study describes the female genitalia of five oonopid species belonging to both conventionally recognized subfamilies by means of semi-thin sections and scanning electron microscopy. In addition, the male palps are briefly described. The organization of the female genitalia in Scaphiella hespera and Scaphiella sp. resembles the entelegyne type. A chitinized canal connects the receptaculum, where sperm are stored, with the uterus. Sperm are also present in the uterus and the canal is suggested to function as fertilization duct. The genitalia of the parthenogenetic species Triaeris stenaspis are surprisingly complex. A large sac with glands is proposed to represent the equivalent of a receptaculum in sexually reproducing females. In females of Opopaea recondita, sperm are stored in a bulge derivating from the uterus. Contractions of muscles attached to the bulge may lead to sperm dumping. The uterus can be closed by a sclerite in its anterior wall. The receptacula of females of Stenoonops reductus are joined together and contain masses of spermatozoa. Additional sperm were found in the receptacula connection suggesting that fertilization takes place there. The male palps of all the investigated species, except for S. hespera, seem to lack a distincly sclerotized sperm duct. Spermatozoa and secretions are stored in a large reservoir inside the genital bulb surrounded by glandular epithelium.
3227080|The reproductive biology, development, and planula behavior of the gorgonian Pseudopterogorgia elisabethae were studied at 2 sites in the Bahamas between 1996 and 2001. Colonies were gonochoric, and females brooded planulae on the colony surface. Gonads were observed only in colonies 18 cm high or larger. Spawning was asynchronous within and between sites but was concentrated 2-10 days after the new moons from late November through early January. Fertilized eggs developed into planulae over 1-2 days and the planulae remained attached to the surface of the female colony for an additional 2-4 days. Planulae were negatively buoyant and field observations suggest that larvae may settle within tens of meters of the maternal colony. P. elisabethae is harvested for natural products, and information on the reproduction of this commercially important species is crucial to the understanding of its population biology and to the development of management plans for the conservation of the species.
10.2307/3226971| Larval metamorphosis of the dorid nudibranch Adalaria proxima is induced by a water-borne cue present in seawater that has been conditioned with live Electra pilosa, its preferred bryozoan prey. Extracts and fractions of Electra-conditioned seawater (CSW) were assessed in bioassays of competent larvae to further elucidate the nature of the inductive chemical cue. Extracts of volatile compounds and lipids present in CSW did not induce metamorphosis; the fractions of CSW remaining after extraction still retained the inducer. Heating CSW to 80 C for 5 min did not eliminate the inductive cue, but metamorphic activity was decreased after boiling CSW for 5 min. No larvae metamorphosed in treatments in which CSW was incubated with trypsin or protease before bioassay. Larvae metamorphosed in CSW after centrifugation, filtration (0.22 m), and treatment with a bactericide. Metamorphosis was induced by ultrafiltrates (10 kDa, 1 kDa, and 500 Da) of CSW, albeit in a variable manner. Up to 45% of larvae metamorphosed in the 500 Da and 1 kDa fractions. There was little response by larvae to the 10 kDa fraction. These procedures eliminated volatile organic molecules, lipids, and large proteins as potential molecules inducing metamorphosis of larvae of A. proxima. Furthermore, that treatment of CSW with trypsin eliminated the inductive cue and that metamorphosis occurred in ultrafiltrates of CSW strongly suggests that larvae of A. proxima respond to a small (<500 Da) arginine- or lysine-containing peptide. 
3227143|Details of the life cycle of freshwater nematomorphs (gordiids) remain unclear. Free-living aquatic larval gordiids must make a critical transition from an epibenthic aquatic environment to terrestrial hosts. In order to identify potential hosts capable of bridging this ecological gap, the specificity of paratenic hosts of three common species of North American gordiids was investigated. All three species were characterized by an identical infection pattern: low host specificity. Gordiids were able to encyst within annelids, mollusks, crustaceans, insects and a vertebrate. Three species of putative host (a turbellarian, a water mite, and a mosquito larva) were not infected with any of the gordiid species. Internal defense reactions (IDR) and feeding behaviors are implicated as preventing infection in these species. Several of the other host species produced either an IDR or an immune reaction to the cysts, although reactions to the cysts were highly variable between species. In most species, IDR did not cause noticeable harm to the encysted larvae. It is proposed that although many species are easily infected with gordiid cysts, most do not act as natural paratenic hosts. For some of these host groups, especially snails, a role as reservoir host is suggested. Of all hosts included in this study, aquatic insects were identified as the hosts likely responsible for spanning the ecological gap and acting as true hosts for gordiids.
3701462| A light and transmission electron microscope study of sections of cells of-and of cells and tissues of-and of cells, associated with the previously undescribed tymbal muscle of a periodical cicada (Brood X of the 17-year cicada) was undertaken to (i) compare their features with similar features described for other cicada tymbal muscles, (ii) use that information to try to determine cytologically whether the muscle should be considered synchronous or asynchronous, and (iii) seek information about ultrastructural features not previously described for any cicada. In cross section the myofibrils are slightly angular and have an abundance of sarcoplasmic reticulum and T tubules. Longitudinal sections show a pair of T tubules, one of each pair located midway between the Z line and the center (H level) of each sarcomere. These cytological features are consistently found in the tymbal muscles of the majority of other cicada genera and species, which are designated synchronous muscles, and all of which are termed fast muscles. The amount of sarcoplasmic reticulum increases at the Z lines. The largest mitochondria occur in the largest axons, but the smallest axons have more neurotubules per cross-section area. Axon diameters range 0.14-20 m. Multinucleate adipocytes, with vacuoles that appear either empty or content-containing, and tracheocytes, which could either be binucleate or have a lobate or U-shaped nucleus, are located at the periphery of the muscle. Large numbers of microtubules occur in the interface glia. The diameters of microtubules and neurotubules (~27 nm) agree closely with the averages usually cited. This study indicates that the tymbal muscles of this cicada should be designated as synchronous, and it describes ultrastructural features that are typical and others that are unusual. 
10.2307/3226951| Perinereis nuntia var. brevicirrus was collected from a rocky shore at Qingdao, China, and cultured in the laboratory. Spawning heteronereids occur with a semilunar periodicity about 2-4 days after full moon and new moon in the field as well as in laboratory cultures. Both sexual partners emerge from their burrows and swarm at the water surface in the early morning. As typical in nereid species, a nuptial dance at the water surface follows the encounter. While the male and female swim around each other in circles, gametes are released into the water. In P. n. var. brevicirrus, both eggs and sperms are connected within 2 threads of mucus. During swarming, a gelatinous egg mass is shaped by the circular swimming pattern of both sexual partners. To our knowledge this is the only nereid species producing connected gamete strings and a regular, formed egg mass. Embryos develop within greenish egg capsules and hatch out at the nectochaete stage after 7-8 days in summer water temperatures (21 C to 23 C), after 9-10 days at 18 C, and after 2-3 weeks at 15 C. No planktonic larval stages occur. Juvenile worms reach a length of 2-3 cm after 2 months. 
40206191|The anterior median artery is an unpaired vessel that leaves the anterior end of the lobster (Homarus americanus) heart and supplies hemolymph to the brain, the antennae, and the eyestalks. This vessel has a trilaminar organization, consisting of a tunica interna with elastic fibrils, a tunica intermedia represented by a bilayered cell mass, and a tunica externa with collagen fibrils. The exposed ends of the medial cells in the tunica intermedia exhibit small, diffuse bundles of microfilaments that are penetrated by microtubules. These bundles have a circumferential or a slightly oblique orientation relative to the lumen of the vessel. The precise role of the microfilaments is unresolved. If the irregularly shaped bundles are static structures, they might contribute to the non-linear elasticity of the artery. Alternatively, if they generate force, a coordinated contraction of the medial cells might reduce the luminal diameter of the artery and, thus, retard hemolymph flow. Microfilaments of the medial cells anchor to subplasmalemmal filamentous mats, some of which are integral to intermediate junctions and some of which are associated with unbounded cell membranes (hemi-intermediate junctions). Contraction of the microfilament-bearing cells would have to occur without the benefit of nervous innervation or the participation of communicating (gap) junctions. If cell contractility is confirmed, a reclassification of the anterior median artery, from capacitance vessel to resistance vessel, is in order, and the bilayered cell mass in the tunica intermedia would likely qualify as the first unstriated muscle found in crustaceans.
3701480|The embryonic development in Chione cancellata, from fertilization to straighthinge D-stage veliger larva, occurs in 24 h at 25 C. Transmission (TEM) and scanning (SEM) electron microscopy show that morphogenetic processes result in a gastrula with two depressions, 4 h after fertilization (
10.2307/3226942|Filamentous eukaryotic algae were found completely embedded in the tunic matrix of 6 species of ascidians from the cold-temperate waters of southern New Zealand: the aplousobranch Aplidium thomsoni (Polyclinidae) and 5 solitary stolidobranchs, Asterocarpa humilis (Styelidae) and Pyura cancellata, P. carnea, P. pulla, and P. suteri (Pyuridae). All the ascidians appeared to be completely healthy, and the stolidobranchs showed evidence of tunic blood vessel hypertrophy in the regions of algal filaments. Only those individuals growing in at least a low-light environment contained algae; individuals of the same species growing in dark conditions contained none. The algal symbionts include Neevea repens (Rhodophyta), Pseudendoclonium submarinum and Ostreobium quekettii (Chlorophyta), and an unidentified filamentous (probable) phaeophyte. Dense growths of Neevea and Pseudendoclonium were found in the tunic matrix in all six ascidians, most abundantly just under the tunic cuticle but extending several millimeters into the tunic. Subsequent recent discovery of filamentous chlorophytes in the tunic of two species of American Pacific coast solitary ascidians leads us to conclude that this algal habitat may be a widespread phenomenon that has been overlooked in the supposition that the algae were merely epizoic. Most of these ascidians also contained numerous alga-filled tunic pockets probably formed during the incorporation of sand grains with epipsammic algae that later proliferated. Though previously noted anecdotally in the literature, this report is the first compilation of this algal assemblage. They include Sarcinochrysis marina (Chrysophyta), unidentified diatoms, unicellular chlorophytes, and the prokaryote cyanobacteria Dermocarpa, Xenococcus, and Synechococcus. Similar species, along with Oscillatoria, Spirulina, and Anabaena, were also found in the inter-tunic cavity of the peculiar double-tunic ascidians Pyura cancellata and P. carnea.
3227104|Although the oesophageal appendages in the four enchytraeids Enchytraeus crypticus, Fridericia striata, Buchholzia appendiculata, and Achaeta sp. are quite different from one another in shape and position, their histology and ultrastructure are basically the same. These are intestinal appendages, the lumina of which distally end blind and proximally open into the oesophagus. Almost all of the few cells in their single-layered epithelium have a microvillous, cilia-free border at the apex, facing towards the lumen, and basally comprise an extremely extensive labyrinth. The presence of the latter, composed of very thin cell processes, and of numerous mitochondria identifies the organs as energy-producing and -consuming, transportactive structures. Their possible function as a food-moistening organ or osmoregulatory organ is discussed, and they are compared with other intestinal appendages in enchytraeids and other oligochaetes.
3227189|Predation on kamptozoans (phylum Kamptozoa = Entoprocta) is not mentioned in any literature on the phylum. We have found a plagiostomid turbellarian flatworm (Plagiostomum sp.) preying upon Barentsia benedeni in an estuarine sublittoral fouling community in Long Island Sound. USA. Previous records of predation on kamptozoans by some members of two phyla, thobranchs (sea slugs) are reviewed. Predation on kamptozoans by some members of two phyla, Mollusca and Platyhelminthes, is thus now known.
10.2307/3226973|Codakia orbicularis is a large Caribbean lucinid clam with chemoautotrophic bacteria in its gill cells. Its development from spawning up to 2.5 mm shell-length juveniles is described using light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy. Embryonic development, from large eggs with an abundant vitelline supply, takes place within individual glycoprotein capsules up to the veliger stage. After hatching, 48 hours after fertilization, swimming veligers develop to swimming-crawling pediveligers, then to benthic, crawling plantigrades in 16 days without developing an umbonate secondary larval shell. This first phase of metamorphosis is completed without any special environmental stimulation. However, without addition of a suitable substrate, a delay of metamorphosis occurs at the end of the plantigrade stage whereas, in planktotrophic bivalves, a developmental hiatus has been described at the end of the pediveliger stage. When a sterile sand fraction is added, plantigrades enter a second phase of metamorphosis, differentiate gill filaments, a siphonal septum, and a byssal gland, and secrete a fastgrowing juvenile shell, which becomes umbonate. Metamorphosis is completed with the differentiation of the unique excurrent siphon in 2 mm shell-length juveniles. Such a developmental pattern is different from the planktotrophic and from the lecithotrophic developments already described for bivalves. C. orbicularis is a facultative planktotroph with a two-step metamorphosis including long planktonic and benthic stages without significant growth, contrasting with the rapid growth of the post-larval shell. The whole larval and post-larval development occurs without the presence of chemoautotrophic symbionts. Therefore, symbiosis is not necessary to achieve metamorphosis.
10.2307/3226967|Bacteria injected into the hemolymph of crustaceans are rapidly cleared from circulation; many accumulate in the gills, even though this organ does not contain fixed phagocytic cells. In this study, hemolymph from a shrimp or a lobster was mixed in a culture medium with or without bacteria. In all cases, hemocytes rapidly aggregated to form nodules. As nodules increased in size, the number of free hemocytes, nodules, and bacteria (if present) decreased. Nodule formation was inhibited by the addition of the peptide RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp). The morphology of the nodules formed in the presence and absence of bacteria was examined using light and electron microscopy. Within 10 min, nodules were larger than the small blood spaces of the gills, suggesting that in vivo clearance is the result of physical entrapment of nodules and foreign material in the narrow vessels of the gills. This method of removing foreign material from circulation is discussed in relation to other clearing mechanisms in crustaceans.
3227136|This study was undertaken to determine whether intraspecific variation in shell morphology of the freshwater snail Elimia (= Goniobasis) livescens is caused by predator-induced morphological changes. Juvenile snails from 3 populations were grown in the presence of effluent from predatory crayfish feeding on conspecific snails or in effluent from conspecific snails only. Snails from one population, Clear Creek, exhibited a predator-induced morphology; they grew a narrow body whorl when exposed to the effluent from crayfish. Experimental feeding trials with crayfish and snails from Clear Creek were conducted to determine whether a narrow body whorl reduced predation in the presence of the crayfish Orconectes propinquus. In the feeding trials, snails with a narrow body whorl were eaten less frequently than snails with wider shells. However, there was no difference in overall size (length) between snails that were eaten and those that were not. Thus, juvenile snails from Clear Creek exposed to the presence of crayfish were induced to develop relatively narrow shells, which reduce the risk of successful attack by these crayfish. Hence the induced shell morphology is probably a defense against predation by crayfish.
40206236|Here we describe the hatching and morphology of the earliest larval stages of the priapulid worm Priapulus caudatus for the first time. The hatching larva differs considerably from previously described larvae not only in its general body shape but also in its lack of a proper lorica including the typical lorica tubuli. Furthermore, no mouth opening or pharyngeal teeth have formed as yet, and the number and arrangement of scalids differ from that of later larvae. The hatching larva molts and emerges as the first lorica larva. This larva partially resembles earlier described lorica larvae, but there are a number of important differences; the first lorica larva is smaller, and the mouth opening as well as pharyngeal teeth are still yet to form. The second lorica larva is equipped with four rings of pharyngeal teeth; it shows striking similarity to the previously described larva of P. caudatus, i.e., the larva-type 2, only differing in the scalid pattern. We conclude that the first two larval stages of P. caudatus have not been described previously. We suggest that discrepancies between the earliest lorica larvae described here and in earlier publications might depend on sub-speciation or ecophenotypic modification of larvae collected from different localities. Our findings highlight the importance of studying the development of non-model organisms such as priapulids under controlled laboratory conditions.
3227259|The external epithelial cilia and other surface structures of the nuculoid protobranchs Nuculana pernula and Nucula nitidosa were studied. The gill lamellae and labial palps are partly covered with very long cilia. These have a modified slender distal portion, an ordinary metazoan-type basal body, a basal foot. and a single, long cross-striated rootlet. In cilia on the gills of N. nitidosa, the basal foot is thick and attaches to the next basal body directly behind. Unciliated surface areas on the gills, labial palps, and foot are covered with a dense brushborder of microvilli. We observed no specific homologies between the cilia of the protobranchs studied and the epidermal cilia of the enigmatic Xenoturbella bocki, hence the recent hypothesis of a close connection of the latter to the protobranch bivalves is questioned.
3227102|We tested the hypothesis that hooked setae function as anchors in three species of tubiculous polychaetes (Eudistylia vancouveri, Schizobranchia insignis, and Owenia fusiformis). All maintained position within their tubes when exposed to high pressures (up to 100-200 kPa) applied from the posterior direction (where it would tend to cause the tips of hooks to embed in the tube wall). When pressure was applied in the opposite direction, where hooks would not tend to embed in the tube wall, the worms were expelled from their tubes at lower pressures (30-100 kPa). The ability of these worms to maintain their position within their tubes was independent of body size. On the basis of these findings we made three predictions. First, worms that use their hooked setae as anchors should have those hooks located on the body in greatest number and size on the segments associated with greatest worm diameter. Second, as worms increase in size, setal armory should increase in a predictable way. The force that can be applied to extract worms from their tubes by suction feeding fish or wave action would increase as the area subject to suction increases (proportional to the cross sectional area of the tube). Therefore, we predict that setal armory should also increase as a squared function. Third, hooks or uncini should show patterns of wear or loss and/or the worms' bodies should show scars or wounds where the setae are most used (e.g., where worm diameter is at its maximum). All of these predictions were supported by the data and indicate that hooked setae function as anchors for tubiculous polychaetes. This is important for understanding the biology of these animals and has implications for using hooked setae as characters in phylogenetic analyses.
3227193|Natural growth lines in the ossicles of echinoids have been used to estimate age, calculate growth curves, and infer population age-structure. However, few studies evaluate whether these bands are added annually-a critical assumption of the aging technique. We tested whether the banding pattern is annual in Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis. Sea urchins were tagged with a fluorescent marker, released into tidepools, and collected 1 year later. We quantified the position of the fluorescent mark relative to subsequent growth bands. In 30 individuals ranging in test diameter from 14 to 77 mm, and in a series of ~2 mm size intervals, we examined 3 interambulacral plates (aboral, ambital, and oral) and a rotula from Aristotle's lantern. Overall, only 7 sea urchins (23%) added a complete band to all 4 ossicles. In 6 sea urchins (20%) at least 1 ossicle added more than 1 complete band. In many sea urchins, especially those >55 mm in diameter, most ossicles added less than 1 band. The banding pattern in ossicles seriously underestimates age in S. droebachiensis and population parameters inferred from these growth lines are biased. Before using the growth-band aging method in other echinoids, it must be demonstrated that 1 band is added annually for all sizes in a population under field conditions.
3227091| Previous observations on the reproductive biology and gametogenesis of Branchiomma luctuosum (Polychaeta: Sabellidae) were extended in this study, with a description of larval development and of reproduction at the population level, comparing populations from the Tyrrhenian Sea (Ischia, Naples) and Ionian Sea (Gulf of Taranto). Although B. luctuosum is a simultaneous hermaphrodite, producing both male and female gametes in each fertile segment, present observations seem to preclude self-fertilization. Both gametes were spawned under laboratory conditions, and broadcasting was confirmed by sperm structure, which appears adapted for external fertilization. Larval development revealed the shortest pelagic period known for sabellids of similar size and life history. Oogenesis was prolonged and extraovarian. The Ionian population seemed to have a resting period during which eggs, having already begun vitellogenesis, remained at a diameter of about 30 m. After this period, rapid growth was observed: the oocytes reached maximum diameter (140 m) in about 2 months. The spawning period began earlier and lasted longer in the Ionian population, compared to the Tyrrhenian population. This pattern seems to be due to asynchronous vitellogenesis within individuals. Documenting the reproductive features of this species will help us to understand its role as a primary colonizer, since hermaphroditism and a short pelagic phase may produce high population densities starting from only a few individuals. 
4621889|We conducted two experiments to compare the behaviors of predatory crayfish (Orconectes juvenilis) and snail prey (Physa gyrina), with and without exposure to injured-snail cues, in seven different sizes of arena. Individuals in both O. juvenilis and P. gyrina are known to obtain information about predation events from chemical cues present in the water, but the effect of spatial scale on this information or the ensuing interaction has not been previously investigated. We found that crayfish were generally more active in larger arenas, but their response to injured-snail cues decreased as arena size increased. Snails responded to injured-snail cue by seeking refuge, but responded less strongly in larger arenas. Less time was required for crayfish to capture a snail in the presence of injured-snail cue, and there was an interaction between cue and arena size evident in middle-sized arenas. Consumption time was lower in the presence of injured-snail cue but was unaffected by arena size. Based on these results, we conclude that the effects of injured-snail cue are mediated by spatial scale, and this affects the outcome of this predator-prey interaction. Spatial scale should be considered in the design and interpretation of other predator-prey studies, particularly when sensory or motility differences exist between predators and prey that affect how each gathers information about the environment.
40206209|The reproductive cycles of four Mediterranean demosponges (Axinella damicornis, Corticium candelabrum, Raspaciona aculeata, and Chondrosia reniformis) were investigated during 2 consecutive years. Three of the species had annual gametogenic cycles characterized by a single peak of gamete production, but members of C. candelabrum showed continuous oocyte production during the 2 years. The relationship between gametogenic dynamics and seawater temperature varied substantially among species, contrary to the widespread belief that gamete production is associated with seasonal water warming. The annual temperature increase (in June) concurred with oocyte production only in C. reniformis, although maximum temperatures were simultaneous with the production of both oocytes in R. aculeata and sperm in C. reniformis. In contrast, the annual temperature decline in October was associated with both oogenesis in A. damicornis and spermatogenesis in R. aculeata. Spermatogenesis in A. damicornis started after a 5-month period of low-temperature values (December--April in 2004 and November--March in 2005). Likewise, in C. candelabrum, spermatogenesis started after a 3-month period of low-temperature values (November--February), a period concomitant with a slow increase in oocyte production. These findings reveal that sponge species that cooccur and share similar thermal regimes may differ substantially in their timing of gamete production. If we are to predict the future effects of climate change on marine benthic communities, there is an urgent need to improve our knowledge of the species-specific relationship between timing of gametogenesis and temperature, at least for those sponges that are key species in benthic communities.
23016708|Although a few investigations have considered neuronal aspects of bivalve larval ontogeny, the central and peripheral nervous systems of bivalve veligers have yet to be described in detail. This study provides a detailed description of central and peripheral components of the larval nervous system in the Eastern oyster, Crassostrea virginica. Larvae at the D-hinge, newly eyed and pediveliger stages were examined at the light level by means of serial histological section sets. D-hinge larvae were found to have limited neurogenesis with only an anterior gangliar rudiment being present. As development progressed to the newly eyed larval stage, a single apical ganglion and paired cerebro-pleural, pedal, and visceral ganglia were identified, forming a typical bivalve central nervous system loop. The nervous system of pediveligers was similar to that of newly eyed larvae, but added an additional accessory ganglion on the left and right sides, posterior to each gill rudiment. A posterior visceral commissure was also present. Various peripheral innervations were also documented, including nerves extending from the pedal and visceral ganglia in both newly eyed and pediveliger larvae. Furthermore, several neuronal processes, such as the mantle, ventral osphradial, anterior adductor and dorsal esophageal nerves were seen connecting to ganglia. This investigation provides an essential histological characterization of the complex nervous system present in bivalve oyster larvae.
10.2307/3226968|Synaptula hydriformis is a holothuroid echinoderm that retains its young in the adult perivisceral coelom. It is also a simultaneous hermaphrodite and is probably self-fertilizing. Eggs are released from the germinal epithelium into the lumen of the ovotestis tubule, and from there into the perivisceral coelom. S. hydriformis is viviparous: eggs are never released to the outside of the adult organism, but develop internally until juveniles are released. It is also matrotrophic: the young rely on the parent to supply nutrition in excess of that supplied by yolk in the egg. The increase in both dry and organic weight from egg to 8-mm juvenile is in excess of 100x. The additional nutrition is supplied as coelomocytes and molecules present in adult coelomic fluid. Brooded juveniles consume naturally occurring particulates and experimentally introduced 50-nm and 1  microspheres from the adult perivisceral coelom.
3227122|The superfamily Cocculinoidea is a group of marine, deep-water, limpet-like gastropods. Recent speculation surrounding their affinities has concentrated on their placement within the Gastropoda. However, phylogenetic relationships within the Cocculinoidea, especially the monophyly of families and genera within the group, remain poorly understood. Phylogenetic analysis of 31 morphological characters for 15 cocculinoidean taxa and 2 outgroups resulted in a single most parsimonious tree, length=70, CI=0.62, and RI=0.71. Monophyly of the Cocculinoidea, Cocculinidae, and the genera Cocculina and Coccopigya was supported; Paracocculina and Coccocrater were found to be paraphyletic. Character optimization demonstrates that many characters often cited as diagnostic of various taxa, are often homoplastic and/or synapomorphies at different hierarchical levels.
10.2307/3226866|Morphology and ultrastructure of the nymphal and adult spiracular plate of five species of hard ticks (Ixodidae) are described using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Both the surface area and the number of acropyles increase significantly between the nymphal and adult stages and are greater in females than in males. The spiracular plate is divided into four regions: an outer cuticle with aeropyles, a labyrinth composed of cuticular pedicels and chambers, a thick basal plate, and a cellular layer. The pedicels that separate the chambers of the spiracular plate have a large central channel, surrounded by smaller secondary channels. These channels are found throughout the basal plate cuticle and contain a granular substance, probably secreted by the epidermal cells. The basal plate gland is enclosed by the cuticle of the basal plate and is dispersed randomly in the basal plate. This gland has duct and secretory cells, and the duct has a valve-like portion at its apical end where the gland opens at the base of a chamber. The basal plate gland cells and epidermal cells beneath the basal plate contain many free ribosomes, lipid droplets, rough endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria. The glands may be involved in the regulation of water loss and air diffusion.
10.2307/3226948|Nematostella vectensis is one of only 5 sea anemones known to reproduce asexually by transverse fission. Sibling individuals of this species divide at highly variable rates with some individuals dividing rarely or not at all, while others may divide many times a year. Field populations are frequently unisexual, and such populations may be clones derived from a single founder. As individual anemones grow, the asexual fragments produced do not necessarily become larger, nor is the time taken to regenerate a functional oral crown on a fragment related to the size of the fragment. The inclusion of a bolus of undigested food in an aboral fragment may delay completion of regeneration as compared to fragments without a bolus. Increased food intake increases the frequency of fission and results in smaller fragments but does not significantly influence the time fragments take to regenerate. Starvation suppresses fission in individuals but does not totally eliminate it. Multi-crowned anomalies are common in natural and in laboratory populations. Subsequent fission of multi-crowned individuals produces normal, single-crowned anemones and meets the definition of budding, a truly rare phenomenon in sea anemones.
3227139|SEM studies of 21 species of marine bryozoans demonstrated that the abfrontal side of the tentacles bears a row of mono- or multiciliated cells, which are presumably sensory. In stenolaemates, the abfrontal cells, as well as the cells at the tentacle tips and the laterofrontal cells, are monociliated. In the 17 gymnolaemate species studied, each tentacle tip bears at least 3 multiciliated cells, each with a tuft of 5-7 stiff cilia of various lengths. On the abfrontal tentacle surface, mono- and multiciliated cells alternate, but all species studied have multiciliated cells at the base and the tip of each tentacle. In live animals, single cilia perform occasional flicks, whereas the tifts of 7-15 cilia on the multiciliated cells are immotile. Length and number of abfrontal cilia vary between species. Two types of multiciliated, putative sensory organs were found on the introvert of some gymnolaemates. One has an apical knob surrounded by a ring of cilia; the other has an apical tuft of cilia. The ultrastructure of the sensory cells of tentacles and introvert was studied in Rhamphostomella ovata. Our observations on both fixed and living material all suggest that these cells are primitive mechanoreceptors. The few species lacking ciliary structures on the introvert have long proximal ciliary tufts on the abfrontal tentacle surface.
3227244|Although the olfactory capabilities of land snail tentacles have been tested by lesion studies and unilateral exposure of tentacles to specific odors, studies of a carnivorous species suggest that the anatomical similarities of herbivorous and carnivorous land snails may belie a fundamental difference in the way these structures are used to find food. Therefore, we challenged the herbivore. Anguispira alternata, and the carnivore, Haplotrema concavum, to find a stationary food source (carrot and caged young prey snail, respectively) under identical still air conditions. The herbivore traveled a significantly shorter distance to the food, even negotiating a barrier placed halfway between the snail and its food. The carnivore, on the other hand, followed a circuitous, apparently random, path to the food. Subsequent tests revealed that H. concavum readily follows prey slime trails while A. alternata seldom follows conspecific slime trails when a distant food source is available. These results are consistent with what might be expected as adaptations to the usually mobile nature of carnivore prey and the stationary nature of herbivore food plants. The ability of A. alternata to exhibit typical detour behavior is noted.
4621912|We investigated the hypothesis that predation risk affects mating decisions in the intertidal snail Littorina plena in Bamfield Inlet, Northeast Pacific. First, we conducted a field tethering experiment to test the assumption that mating pairs of snails are more susceptible to predation than solitary individuals, and then performed a laboratory experiment to quantify the effect of predation threat on the propensity of snails to form mating pairs. Our results support the hypothesis, in that "mating pairs" were more frequently killed than single snails in the field, and snails were less likely to form mating pairs in the laboratory when simulated predation risk was high (chemical cues from crushed conspecifics were added to the water) than when it was low (no risk cues were added to the water). In contrast to several earlier studies, we found no effect of individual size on snail susceptibility to predation, perhaps because our two size classes were contiguous and snails within them were not dissimilar enough. The results of the behavioral experiment were consistent with this lack of individual size effect on snail vulnerability; both size classes of snails showed a significant and similar tendency to decrease mating when predation risk was high. Taken together, the results of this and recent studies indicate that predators can considerably affect the behavior of littorinid snails, including their movement patterns, feeding, and reproduction. We argue that greater consideration should be given to how marine invertebrates trade off predation risk and activities related to reproduction.
25623064|The present study documents the pace of accessory gland and testes degeneration in the wasp Vespula vulgaris by means of a histological and metric approach, that has not been carried out for social wasps so far. To a certain extent, comparison is made with the degenerative processes of the mucus glands of the honeybee drone. In V. vulgaris, no generative tissue is left by the end of 9 d of age, and so degeneration is a fast process. The three different parts of the accessory glands (muscle layer, gland epithelium, and lumen) change with respect to age. The secretory cells of the epithelium reach their maximum activity during the first days of adult life, which results in a maximally filled gland lumen by 9 d. We also provide, for the first time, a histological study of testes degeneration for this species. At ecolosion, well-defined cystic structures are still visible, whereas at 9 d, it is no longer possible to distinguish different cystic structures. The diameter of the testes decreases with respect to age.
4124899|Recent molecular data suggest that the Porifera is paraphyletic (Calcarea+ Silicea) and that the Calcarea is more closely related to the Metazoa than to other sponge groups, thereby implying that a sponge-like animal gave rise to other metazoans. One ramification of these data is that calcareous sponges could provide clues as to what features are shared among this ancestral metazoan and higher animals. Recent studies describing detailed morphology in the Calcarea are lacking. We have used a combination of microscopy techniques to study the fine structure of Sycon coactum Urban 1905, a cosmopolitan calcareous sponge. The sponge has a distinct polarity, consisting of a single tube with an apically opening osculum. Finger-like chambers, several hundred micrometers in length, form the sides of the tube. The inner and outer layers of the chamber wall are formed by epithelia characterized by apical-basal polarity and occluding junctions between cells. The outer layer-the pinacoderm-and atrial cavity are lined by plate-like cells (pinacocytes), and the inner choanoderm is lined by a continuous sheet of choanocytes. Incurrent openings of the sponge are formed by porocytes, tubular cells that join the pinacoderm to the choanoderm. Between these two layers lies a collagenous mesohyl that houses sclerocytes, spicules, amoeboid cells, and a progression of embryonic stages. The morphology of choanocytes and porocytes is plastic. Ostia were closed in sponges that were vigorously shaken and in sponges left in still water for over 30 min. Choanocytes, and in particular collar microvilli, varied in size and shape, depending on their location in the choanocytc chamber. Although some of the odd shapes of choanocytes and their collars can be explained by the development of large embryos first beneath and later on top of the choanocytes, the presence of many fused collar microvilli on choanocytes may reflect peculiarities of the hydrodynamics in large syconoid choanocytc chambers. The unusual formation of a hollow blastula larva and its inversion through the choanocyte epithelium are suggestive of epithelial rather than mesenchymal cell movements. These details illustrate that calcareous sponges have characteristics that allow comparison with other metazoans-one of the reasons they have long been the focus of studies of evolution and development.
10.2307/3226957|Membranipora chesapeakensis n. sp. was collected on wood substrate in the Chesapeake Bay, Maryland. Colonies are erect, vermiform or ribbon-shaped to bilaminar, with two back-to-back layers sharing one basal cuticle. There is a minute cryptocyst and a beaded gymnocyst; zoids have 14 tentacles and lack knobs or other decorations in their corners. Closest affinities are with M. tenuis Desor, sensu lato. A setigerous collar is present, the first reported among membraniporid cheilostomes. Membraniporids are morphologically similar to the earliest fossil cheilostomes and to the encrusting ctenostomes from which most cheilostomes are thought to have evolved. A setigerous collar, probably generally present in ctenostomes, has hitherto been found only in two aberrant cheilostome genera. The presence of a setigerous collar in a species of Membranipora suggests that setigerous collars may also have been present in early cheilostomes and therefore supports the hypothesis that most or all cheilostomes evolved from ctenostomes.
3701478|Freshly released eggs from four species of the cestode Eubothrium (Eubothrium crassum, Eubothrium fragile, Eubothrium rugosum, and Eubothrium salvelini) were subjected to morphological and morphometric analysis. The eggs of the two freshwater species, E. rugosum and E. salvelini, were ovoid with a lobed embryophore whereas the eggs of the two marine species, E. crassum and E. fragile, were more circular with a smooth embryophore. However, the morphological differences between species were not readily evident to permit their clear distinction from one another. To discriminate species, a forward stepwise linear discriminant analysis, using six of the seven measured metric characters made on the eggs, was used, which gave 100% correct classification of two species, E. rugosum and E. salvelini, and a high proportion of correct classification for E. crassum (98%) and E. fragile (83%). Of the latter two species, one specimen of E. crassum and five specimens of E. fragile were misclassified between the respective groups. The principal characters used in the classification of the species were the width of the egg, the length of the mediolateral hooks, and the width of the oncosphere. To provide more information on the life cycle of each species, the eggs were used in a series of infection trials to identify appropriate intermediate hosts. Experimental infections with freshwater copepods were successful when exposed to the eggs of E. salvelini, partially successful when exposed to the eggs of marine E. crassum with 10% of the copepods becoming infected, but no infections were obtained when the eggs of E. fragile were used.
40206190|The sexual system of two peppermint shrimps, Lysmata bahia and Lysmata intermedia, inhabiting intertidal fossil coral terraces at Bocas del Toro, on the Caribbean coast of Panama, was examined. Dissections suggested that the population of each species consisted of functional males and functional simultaneous hermaphrodites. Males have cincinulli and appendices masculinae on the first and second pair of pleopods, respectively, gonopores located at the coxae of the third pair of walking legs, and ovotestes with a well-developed male portion full of sperm, but an undeveloped female portion. Hermaphrodites lacked appendices masculinae and cincinulli. However, they have male gonopores and ovotestes with well-developed ovaries full of mature oocytes and testes with sperm. When hermaphrodites were maintained in pairs, both molted and spawned eggs (to beneath abdomen) that continued developing after 3 d, demonstrating that hermaphrodites can reproduce as males and inseminate other hermaphrodites acting as females. The possibility of self-fertilization or parthenogenetic reproduction was tested and disregarded, because hermaphrodites reared in isolation spawned oocytes that failed to develop, disappearing from the abdomen after 2d. Males reared in pairs mature as hermaphrodites in <50 d, showing the ability of males to mature as hermaphrodites. These results demonstrate that L. bahia and L. intermedia are protandric simultaneous hermaphrodites, as reported for all species of this genus whose sexual system has been examined. However, the studied species featured a lifestyle, termed "tropical-low abundance," here not recognized previously for the genus; they occur in low abundances in tropical environments, they do not develop symbiotic associations with sessile invertebrates, and they are not conspicuously colored. Information on the sexual systems and lifestyles of more species needs to be examined before these observations can be placed into a comparative context within the genus.
10.2307/3226965|Gills of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii are cleaned by two sets of setae which are thrust back and forth among gill filaments by feeding, locomotory, or other movements of thoracic legs. Setae with a complex, rasping microstructure arise from papillae (setobranchs) on the third maxillipeds and pereopods 1-4, and extend up between the inner layer of arthrobranch and outer layer of podobranch gills. The lateral sides of the podobranchs, beyond the range of the setobranch setae, are penetrated by a field of setae projecting from the inner side of the gill cover. These branchiostegal setae bear digitate scale setules like those borne by the setobranch setae. Although cleaning setae act concomitantly with any type of leg movement, these animals engage in a previously unreported behavior, "limb rocking," whose sole function appears to be gill cleaning. The effectiveness of cleaning setae was tested with experiments in which setobranch setae were removed from the branchial chamber of one side but not the other. Treated crayfishes set out in commercial ponds and a natural swamp habitat suffered heavy particulate fouling on gill filaments deprived of setobranch setae. The pattern of fouling showed that branchiostegal setae also prevented particulate fouling. However, gill-cleaning setae were not effective against bacterial or ciliate fouling. It is concluded that molting is the only escape from epibiotic fouling in P. clarkii. It is suggested that setobranchs of other decapods, e.g., some families and genera of caridean shrimps, are also adaptations preventing particulate but not epibiotic fouling. Thus, indirect gill-cleaning mechanisms, such as setobranchs, are less effective than gill brushing by chelipeds (found in many species of Caridea and Anomura), which has been shown experimentally to prevent all gill fouling. This supports the view that gill brushing is more advanced than setobranch or other indirect gill-cleaning methods, both in the functional and evolutionary sense.
41408394|The purposeful introduction of the land snail Euglandina rosea, which feeds exclusively on snails and slugs, has been implicated as a major factor in the decline of diverse Pacific island land snail faunas. We report on the distribution, movement patterns, and microhabitat preferences of E. rosea in a gulch in the Waianae Mountains, Oahu, Hawaii, because such data will help focus management actions at a local scale to protect native snail populations in areas where E. rosea is established. The Waianae Mountains harbor many endangered or threatened snails, most currently found in isolated habitat patches near the ridges. Conversely, most living individuals (28/29) and shells (46/56) of E. rosea were collected within the gulch, which supported higher densities of other native and non-native snails, and was cooler and more moist than the ridges. Thirteen individuals of E. rosea were tracked (eight directly using a bobbin and thread method, and five indirectly by mark-recapture); most (10/13) moved on average < 2.5 m per week (range 0.1-25.21 m), and all stayed within the gulch. Members of E. rosea preferred leaf litter over open, fern/shrub, or wood microhabitats. There were large differences in the population density of E. rosea over small spatial scales, indicating that there may be places where native snail populations could persist even in areas where populations of E. rosea are established. Identifying areas with differing population densities of E. rosea is critical for not only understanding why some native snail species may be more vulnerable to extinction, but also to locate areas where prdation pressure is low and conservation efforts will be most likely to succeed.
40663840|The Porifera represent one of the only two recent nerveless and muscleless metazoan phyla. Nevertheless, sponges provide behavioral, physiological, pharmacological, morphological, and, more recently, an increasing amount of genetic evidence for a paracrine pre-nervous integration system. Although this system might be derived, it allows us to draw conclusions, on the basis of comparative data, about the origin of the nervous system sensu stricto as found in the eumetazoan phyla. The goal of the present review is to compile recent evidence on the sponge integration systems. Based on this framework, new light is also shed on the evolutionary origin of the eumetazoan synaptic nervous systems, which can be regarded to form an evolutionary biochemical continuum with the paracrine signaling system in sponges. Thus, we can assume that the evolutionary transition from a paracrine-dominated, pre-nervous system to an electrochemically dominated, primordial nervous system resulted in part from compartmentalization effects. As intermediate evolutionary stages, regionalized synapse precursor areas might have occurred within pre-nervous cells, which foreshadowed the highly organized synaptic scaffolds present in recent nerve cells of the Eumetazoa.
3227233|We present here a description of the spermatozoon of Rhopalura littoralis, the first fine-structural study of an orthonectid sperm. The spermatozoon contains a slightly elongate nucleus and two centrioles orientated along the longitudinal axis of the sperm. The proximal centriole bears one rootlet. A single mitochondrion is present in the mid-piece region. An acrosome is absent. The sperm tail is a simple flagellum with 9+2 structure. We consider the orthonectan spermatozoon to be closer in structure to those of Porifera, Cnidaria, and Annelida, than to Aschelminthes and Platyhelminthes, to which orthonectids have previously been allied.
10.2307/3226977|The goal of this study was to better understand the ecology of Macronychus glabratus, a xylophagous aquatic beetle that plays an important role in the conditioning and breakdown of submerged woody debris. In the Illinois and White Rivers of northwest Arkansas, and Harmon Creek in southeast Texas, M. glabratus produced six larval instars. Primary recruitment in Arkansas was during March and April, but first instar larvae were also collected during February and May. Primary recruitment in Texas was during February and March, but first instar larvae were also collected during January and April. Adults made up ~ 10-20% of the population throughout the year in both Arkansas and Texas, indicating that adults are probably long lived. In the laboratory, sixth-instar larvae pupated above the water line in a hollowed oval space beneath bark or in rotted wood. Emergence began ~18 days later. After emergence adults crawled back the water. In the laboratory, adults oviposited and first-instar larvae began to hatch after 22 days. Production of M. glabratus in Arkansas was 1.65 g/m
4621911|The nervous system of the benthic freshwater rotifer, Notommata copeus, was examined using antibody probes, epifluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy, and digital imaging to highlight similarities with other monogonont rotifers. Immunoreactivity to anti-FMRFamide (Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-
40206242|The reproductive anatomy of gastrotrichs is well known for several species, especially for the marine taxon Macrodasyida. However, there is little information on the reproductive organs and the modes of mating and sperm transfer in putative basal taxa, which is necessary for accurate reconstruction of the ground pattern of the Gastrotricha. We present the first detailed morphological investigation of the reproductive system of a putative basal gastrotrich, Dactylopodola typhle, using transmission and scanning electron microscopy, histology, and microscopic observations of living specimens. Dactylopodola typhle is a hermaphrodite that possesses paired female and male gonads, an unpaired uterus with an outlet channel that we call the cervix, and an additional accessory reproductive organ, the so-called caudal organ. We hypothesize that the hollow, secretory caudal organ serves for picking up autospermatozoa ( self- sperm), for spermatophore formation, and finally for transferring the autospermatophore to a mating partner. The allospermatophore (foreign spermatophore) is stored within the uterus where fertilization occurs. We think that the mature and fertilized egg is released through the cervix and the dorsolateral female gonopore, and not by rupture of the body wall. Based on the morphology, we provide a plausible hypothesis for spermatophore formation and transfer in D. typhle. Preliminary phylogenetic considerations indicate that the stem species of Macrodasyida, perhaps that of all Gastrotricha, had paired ovaries and paired testes, an unpaired uterus, and only one accessory reproductive organ.
3701463|The hypothesis of a common ancestry of the lophophorate taxa Brachiopoda, Bryozoa, Phoronida, and the Deuterostomia can be traced back to the late 19th century when Masterman recognized a tripartite organization of the body consisting of pro-, meso-, and metasome, along with coelomic body cavities in each compartment, as characteristic for Echinodermata, Pterobranchia, Phoronida, and Brachiopoda. This idea became quite popular under the name "archicoelomate" concept. The organization of the phoronids, and especially of their transparent actinotroch larva, has for a long time been used as a touchstone for the validity of this concept. As a coelomic lining can reliably be recognized only on the ultrastructural level, this technique has been applied for adults of Phoronis ovalis, which is assumed to be a sister species to all other phoronids. Phoronis ovalis contains only two coelomic compartments, a posterior coelom inside the trunk (metasoma), occupying the space between the trunk epidermis and the digestive epithelium, and an anterior lophophoral coelom inside and basal to the tentacular crown (mesosoma). There is no coelomic cavity inside the epistome (prosoma). This part of the body is filled with myoepithelial cells, which are continuous with the epithelial lining of the lophophore cavity. These cells form a lumenless bilayer and possess long, tiny myofilamentous processes, which are completely embedded in an extracellular matrix. A comparison with data on P. muelleri shows that there is no need to assume three different coelomic cavities in Phoronida, in contrast to the predictions of the archicoelomate concept. At least for this taxon, a correspondence to the situation in deuterostomes can hardly be found.
3227089|Heart xenografts from the pulmonate snail Helisoma trivolvis survive in Biomphalaria glabrata, whereas xenografts from most other pulmonate snail genera are rejected within 3 to 15 days. To test whether xenografts from snails closely related to H. trivolvis were also accepted, specimens of an albino strain of B. glabrata were implanted with hearts from H. duryi, Planorbula armigera, and Planorbarius corneus. The fate of implants was monitored for 180 days by measuring heartbeat and by histological analysis. All 3 types of implants survived beyond the 3 to 15 days required for the complete destruction of incompatible xenografts, suggesting a degree of physiological and immunological compatibility between B. glabrata and these donors. Among the 3 types of xenografts, all from H. duryi survived for the entire 180 days. Fewer grafts from P. armigera and P. corneus survived for prolonged periods, although some still were beating at 60 and 180 days post implantation (DPI) respectively, suggesting that a range of histocompatibility, and perhaps phylogenetic relatedness, with B. glabrata occurs within this group. Paradoxically, the initial hemocytic response by the recipient was strongest against grafts from H. duryi, the most compatible donor, while responses to grafts from P. armigera and P. corneus were mild or did not occur during the first 7 DPI. We used 2 albino strains of B. glabrata in these studies, and the data suggest slight differences in recipient strain compatibility.
4621913|Although the internal phyletic relationships of Spiralia (and Lophotrochozoa) remain unresolved, recent progress has been made due to molecular phylogenetic analyses as well as developmental studies of crucial taxa such as Mollusca, Sipuncula, or Annelida. Despite this progress, the phylogenetic position of a number of phyla, such as Entoprocta, remains problematic, mainly due to their unique morphology, their aberrant mode of development, and their exclusion in most large-scale phylogenetic analyses. In order to extend the morphological dataset of this enigmatic taxon, we herein describe the anatomy of the serotonergic nervous system of the creeping-type larva of Loxosomella murmanica. The apical organ is very complex and comprises six to eight centrally positioned flask cells and eight bipolar peripheral cells. In addition, a prototroch nerve ring, an anterior nerve loop, a paired buccal nerve, and an oral nerve ring are found. Moreover, the larva of L. murmanica has one pair of pedal and one pair of lateral longitudinal nerve cords and thus expresses a tetraneurous condition. Several paired serotonergic perikarya, which form contact with the pedal nerve cords but not with the lateral ones, are found along the anterior-posterior axis. The combination of a complex larval serotonergic apical organ and (adult) tetraneury, comprising one pair of ventral and one pair of more dorsally situated lateral longitudinal nerve cords without ganglia, has so far only been reported for basal molluscs and may be diagnostic for a mollusc-entoproct clade. In addition, the larva of Loxosomella expresses a mosaic of certain neural features that are also found in other larval or adult Spiralia, e.g., a prototroch nerve ring, an anterior nerve loop, and a buccal nervous system.
3701483|This is the first article of branchiobdellidans on blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, in Chesapeake Bay, MD, USA. The ectosymbionts consisted of sympatric populations of Cambarincola mesochoreus and Cambarincola pamelae living on the ventral body surface and in the gill chambers of blue crabs. The occurrence of branchiobdellidans in the upper bay region was documented at ten sites during August and late September 2003. Branchiobdellidans were found on blue crabs following a rainy summer when salinity levels fell below 3 ppt. The blue crabs move into the freshwater estuaries during the summer, where they enter the habitats of crayfishes; however, the mechanism of transfer from one crustacean host to another is not known.
3227087| This study describes and compares laboratory spawning, larval development, and metamorphosis in the patellogastropod limpets Lottia digitalis and Lottia asmi. Both species were dioecious and freely spawned their gametes, which were fertilized externally. Eggs from L. digitalis and L. asmi averaged 155 and 134 m in diameter, respectively. Early cleavage patterns were typical of other patellogastropods. Swimming trochophore larvae had developed 15 hours after fertilization, and ultimately developed into lecithotrophic veliger larvae that reached metamorphic competence at 5.25-5.5 days after fertilization (13C). Food particles were frequently visible in the gut of newly metamorphosed individuals one day after settlement, and adult shell growth was typically initiated within 2-4 days of settlement. Small egg size in L. asmi, relative to other eastern Pacific lottiids, may be directly related to the need for high fecundity in this small-bodied species; however, developmental information is available for relatively few lottiid species. Because broadcasting lottiids do not secure egg masses in safe microhabitats for development, this reproductive mode may have been conducive to their ecological radiation into novel habitats. 
10.2307/3226908|Two of three investigated species of kalyptorhynch turbellarians showed evidence of degenerating nuclei in voluminous terminal flame bulbs (protonephridia). No cell boundaries separated the flame bulbs from the proximal canals. This situation may represent the developmental and evolutionary pathway from the plesiomorphic nucleated flame bulbs of many flatworm taxa to the apomorphic, anucleate flame bulbs found in the majority of rhabdocoel taxa that have been studied.
40663872|The rhynchoteuthion stage of the jumbo squid, Dosidicus gigas, has morphological characteristics similar to the paralarvae of the purpleback squid, Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis, making it difficult to determine the locations, seasons, and conditions where spawning of jumbo squid occurs. In this study, 180 paralarvae of D. gigas were collected off the west coast of the Baja California peninsula and identified by sequencing a 369-bp fragment of the cytochrome oxidase I gene. Of these, 77 specimens, 0.8-6.0 mm in mantle length, were described. Indices based on morphometric ratios were used to determine whether the shapes of different body structures were reliable for identifying the paralarvae. For two ratios, the results appear to discriminate members of D. gigas from those of S. oualaniensis. Additionally, eye or intestinal photophores were not observed in any paralarvae of D. gigas. Morphological and morphometric information provided a valuable basis for the discrimination and identification of these two species.
40206222|The predominance of sexuality in eukaryotes remains an evolutionary paradox, given the "two-fold cost of sex" also known as the " cost of males." [Correction added after online publication 29 January 2009: in the preceding sentence, extraneous words were deleted.] As it requires two sexual parents to reproduce and only one parthenogenetic parent, parthenogens should have twice the reproductive rate compared with their sexual counterparts and their genes should spread twice as fast, if all else is equal. Yet, parthenogenesis is relatively rare and considered an evolutionary dead- end, while sexuality is the dominant form of reproduction in multicellular eukaryotes. Many studies have explored short-term benefits of sex that could outweigh its two-fold cost, but few have compared fecundity between closely related sexuals and parthenogens to first verify that "all else is equal" reproductively. We compared six fecundity measures between sexual and parthenogenetic populations of the freshwater snail, Campeloma limum, during a brooding cycle (1year) across two drainages. Drainages were analyzed separately because of a significant drainage effect. In the Savannah drainage, fecundity was not significantly different between sexuals and parthenogens, even though parthenogens had significantly more empty egg capsules per brood. In the Ogeechee drainage, parthenogens had significantly more egg capsules with multiple embryos and more hatched embryos than sexuals. Taken over 1 year, embryo size was not significantly different between parthenogens and sexuals in either drainage. Given these results and the close proximity of sexual and parthenogenetic populations, it is perplexing why parthenogenetic populations have not completely replaced sexual populations in C. limum.
10.2307/3226907|Musculature of lower worms such as the acoel turbellarians can be readily revealed with fluorescence microscopy and phalloidin-linked fluorescent dyes. In a new species of acoel, the meshwork of body-wall muscles could be resolved using BODIPY 558/568 phalloidin into four sets of fibers; (1) circular muscles that encircle the body; (2) longitudinal muscles, most of which cross over the body midline, having longitudinal orientation only in the anterior third of the body and bending medially to the opposite lateral side of the body more posteriorly; (3) a few diagonal muscles on the anterior dorsal body wall; and (4) special muscles that fan from pores (mouth and genital pore). Compared to patterns of musculature in other acoels that have been studied, that of this new species shows characters that link it with species of the Convolutidae as distinct from other acoel groups and characters that appear to be specific to it at the genus or species level. Such characters could well serve as diagnostic features of taxa of the acoels, which, as soft-bodied worms, are otherwise rather poor in distinctive features.
23016709|We examined the presence and location of small cardioactive peptide (SCP)-like neuropeptides in both the central and peripheral nervous systems of D-hinge, newly eyed, and pediveliger larvae of Crassostrea virginica. Results indicate that SCP-like substances are present early in development (D-hinge larvae), and that presence in the central and peripheral nervous systems increases as the larva develops toward metamorphic competence (pediveliger larvae). In addition, in newly eyed and pediveliger larvae, SCP-like labeling is found in a varying number of neurons within all central ganglia, with the possible exception of the accessory ganglia. Varicose labeling of axons is also documented within the ganglia, commissures, and connectives, as well as in peripheral nerves. Peripheral tissues innervated by axons exhibiting SCP-like immunoreactivity include the velum, foot, esophagus, mantle, and various musculatures. As indicated by the location of SCP-like labeling in various organs and tissues, it is likely that these neuropeptides modulate muscle contraction or ciliary beating in molluscan larvae such as those of C. virginica.
10.2307/3227006|Similarities in features that occur commonly on the shells of many planktotrophic gastropod larvae may be interpreted primarily in terms of (a) shared ancestry, (b) shared adaptive solutions to problems of planktonic existence, or (c) shared artifacts of a basic pattern of early biomineralization. The Paradigm Method of functional inference, developed by paleontologists to analyze structures of fossil organisms, is used to analyze recurring features of unknown function on gastropod larval shells. Four recurring features are shown to fit paradigmatic adaptive solutions to preventing or retarding mechanical breakage at the growing apertural margin of the larval shell. These features are apertural beaks, velar notches, peripheral angulations, and continuous spiral elements of shell sculpture. A fifth common feature on larval shells, discrete crystalline microprotuberances, is inferred to be primarily a non-functional artifact of remote biomineralization and self-organized growth, although secondary functional advantage cannot be discounted. Protective functional interpretations are supported by patterns of shell breakage and repair on larvae from the plankton and by patterns of shell failure in trials subjecting larval shells to artificial mechanical attacks. The ability to withstand mechanical onslaughts of zooplankton predators and to repair damage to the larval shell may be a highly significant means of reducing natural larval mortality.
3227077|It is widely accepted that multicellular animals (metazoans) constitute a monophyletic unit, deriving from ancestral choanoflagellate-like protists that gave rise to simple choanocyte-bearing metazoans. However, a re-assessment of molecular and histological evidence on choanoflagellates, sponge choanocytes, and other metazoan cells reveals that the status of choanocytes as a fundamental cell type in metazoan evolution is unrealistic. Rather, choanocytes are specialized cells that develop from non-collared ciliated cells during sponge embryogenesis. Although choanocytes of adult sponges have no obvious homologue among metazoans, larval cells transdifferentiating into choanocytes at metamorphosis do have such homologues. The evidence reviewed here also indicates that sponge larvae are architecturally closer than adult sponges to the remaining metazoans. This may mean that the basic multicellular organismal architecture from which diploblasts evolved, that is, the putative planktonic archimetazoan, was more similar to a modern poriferan larva lacking choanocytes than to an adult sponge. Alternatively, it may mean that other metazoans evolved from a neotenous larva of ancient sponges. Indeed, the Porifera possess some features of intriguing evolutionary significance: (1) widespread occurrence of internal fertilization and a notable diversity of gastrulation modes, (2) dispersal through architecturally complex lecithotrophic larvae, in which an ephemeral archenteron (in dispherula larvae) and multiciliated and syncytial cells (in trichimella larvae) occur, (3) acquisition of direct development by some groups, and (4) replacement of choanocyte-based filter-feeding by carnivory in some sponges. Together, these features strongly suggest that the Porifera may have a longer and more complicated evolutionary history than traditionally assumed, and also that the simple anatomy of modern adult sponges may have resulted from a secondary simplification. This makes the idea of a neotenous evolution less likely than that of a larva-like choanocyte-lacking archimetazoan. From this perspective, the view that choanoflagellates may be simplified sponge-derived metazoans, rather than protists, emerges as a viable alternative hypothesis. This idea neither conflicts with the available evidence nor can be disproved by it, and must be specifically re-examined by further approaches combining morphological and molecular information. Interestingly, several microbial lineages lacking choanocyte-like morphology, such as Corallochytrea, Cristidiscoidea, Ministeriida, and Mesomycetozoea, have recently been placed at the boundary between fungi and animals, becoming a promising source of information in addition to the choanoflagellates in the search for the unicellular origin of animal multicellularity.
40206219|Larval development of a small ovoviviparous comatulid crinoid, Aporometra wilsoni, was investigated using a population from South Australia. The genital pinnules of reproductive females each contain an ovary, within which are oocytes of various stages. Generally, one or more developing larvae lie outside the ovary, but within each pinnule. Larvae pass through "uniformly ciliated" and doliolaria stages before they exit the pinnule via the genital pore. The doliolariae lack the usual ciliary bands and are unable to swim. Doliolariae dissected from pinnules were followed through metamorphosis to the cystidean stage until the pentacrinoid larval stage. While previous reports on Aporometra have noted pentacrinoids attached to the female, virtually no pentacrinoids were found attached to any of the hundreds of adult females observed during this study. Females sampled from the midreproductive season (September and October) were found to bear >2500 developing eggs and larvae at a time. It appears that emerging doliolariae fall from the female and attach to other substrates to complete development. Aporometra is classified in Notocrinida with the Antarctic crinoid Notocrinus. This classification is based in part on their supposedly homologous larval brooding. However, the reproductive mechanism in A. wilsoni is quite different from Notocrinus, calling into question their current status as sister taxa.
3227187| Evidence for classical neurotransmitters in sea anemones remains controversial. We used high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-EC) and electron microscopical immunocytochemistry to determine the presence of serotonin and precursor synthetic enzymes of other biogenic amines in tentacles of the sea anemone Aiptasia pallida. Using HPLC-EC we found dopamine and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in both tentacles and whole animal homogenates. Antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine -hydroxylase, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, and 5-HT were used with the peroxidase-anti-peroxidase method to reveal positive immunoreactivity to these substances in neurons of tentacles. Immunogold labeling of serial thin sections with the anti-5-HT antibody revealed reactive products in synaptic vesicles at interneuronal, neuromuscular, and neuro-spirocyte synapses. These results suggest that both catecholamine and indolamine neurotransmitters occur in sea anemones in addition to the neuropeptide Antho-RFamide, indicating the presence of multiple types of transmitter substances in an early nervous system. 
10.2307/3227053|Two hairworm parasites of a cockroach in Dominican amber (15-45 mya) are described as Paleochordodes protus n.g., n.sp. (Nematomorpha, Chordodidae) and represent the first unequivocal record of fossil nematomorphs. Previous reports of putative nematomorphs are discussed and shown to be tentative at best. A critical examination of supposed mermithid nematode infections of cockroaches concludes that none of these can, at present, be confirmed.
10.2307/3226929|Technological advances in illuminating, imaging, and recording the movements of small organisms now make it possible to analyze feeding behaviors that were previously misunderstood (e. g., suspension feeding). Presentations in this symposium include some of the best examples of the use of modern videomicroscopy to study suspension feeding, and other examples are found in the recent literature. However, video recordings often do not provide direct demonstration of feeding mechanisms (or other behaviors). Instead, video recordings provide data with which to test hypotheses about feeding. The presentation and interpretation of such data require a forthright accounting of their strengths and limitations. This accounting helps to dispel the common misconception that direct observation of behavior should provide direct insight into feeding mechanisms. I illustrate the usefulness of this accounting with a wellknown example of suspension feeding: capture of small particles by reversal of ciliary beat in ciliated bands of some small echinoderms, hemichordates, and lophophorates.
3227123|Certain digestive cells of the opisthobranch mollusc, Elysia chlorotica, contain functional chloroplasts which they steal from the filamentous alga, Vaucheria litorea. The adult portion of the life cycle of the slug lasts for ~ 10 months and is completely synchronized among individuals. All the adults die each year within a few weeks of each other. We have examined the microscopic morphology of the slugs near the end of the life cycle. Light microscopy demonstrated an absence of chloroplasts in most of the digestive epithelial cells, the appearance of many crypt cells containing residual bodies and an invasion of the blood sinuses by neoplastic morula-like cells as the animals die. Electron microscopy revealed a degeneration of the digestive diverticulum which had several morphological characteristics in common with apoptosis: expansion of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, DNA fragmentation, formation of primary lysosomes, and condensation of chromatin. These are followed by fragmentation of the nucleus and cytoplasm into autosomes merging to form a large central autolysosome. In addition in the aging slugs, the plastids begin to degenerate until none were left in the digestive epithelial cells and the central autolysosome contained numerous viral particles.
10.2307/3227056|A lack of efficient criteria by which to discriminate among Mytilus spp. in early juveniles (~0.5-5.0 mm shell length) has hindered studies of recruitment, despite the conspicuous ecological roles played by the adults on rocky shores of western North America. We present morphological criteria, visible under a dissecting microscope, that distinguish sea mussels, Mytilus californianus, from sympatric bay mussels, M. trossulus and M. galloprovincialis. The shells of early juvenile sea mussels from southern British Columbia and from southern California have (1) a more posterior dorsal apex and (2) a posterior adductor muscle (PA) attachment larger than do shells of bay mussels from similar locations (M. trossulus and M. galloprovincialis, respectively). Accuracy of these criteria was confirmed by comparing PCR products of genomic DNA of juveniles with those of adults. Additional criteria useful in identification include: (3) the proximity of the PA to the dorsal apex line, (4) the dorsal angle of the dissoconch, and (5) lateral hinge-tooth demarcations. Morphological criteria identified by this study constitute a fast, economical means of distinguishing early juveniles of those mussels and may benefit ecological research on Mytilus.
3227269|Our results suggest that freshwater pulmonates like Lymnaea stagnalis. Radix peregra, Physa fontinalis, and Planorbarius corneus have inherited from their terrestrial ancestors eyes with a spherical, immobile lens with fixed focal-length optics. Unable to change the dioptric apparatus to form an image under water, modifications to the retina had to occur if sharp vision was required. Computer-assisted calculations and 3-D eye reconstructions demonstrate that the photoreceptors in the deeper, ventral pit are in a position to perceive focused images under water. Vision in air, however, would favour photoreceptive cells located in the shallower, dorsal pit. On the basis of histological, ethological, and optical comparisons, we conclude that the eyes in L. stagnalis and R. peregra, species that are known to escape and seek temporary refuge above the water surface, are well adapted to function in water as well as air, but that the eyes in P. fontinalis and Pl. corneus are less modified from those of their terrestrial ancestors. We also conclude that good resolving power may be of greater importance in the aquatic pulmonates than the terrestrial species, since the former have to locate thin, vertical stems of reeds and sedges to ascend in order to reach the surface to breathe.
23016256|A retractable head region somewhat resembling the introvert of sipunculans is a characteristic feature of members of the annelid taxon Fauveliopsidae. The morphology of fauvelopsids is not well known, and additional data might help to resolve their relationships with other annelids and sipunculans. Ultrastructural investigations of the anterior end of adults of Fauveliopsis cf. adriatica revealed peculiar brain and sensory structures. From the neuropil of the brain, two pairs of lobes mainly composed of neuronal somata extend posteriorly into the peristomium and the following segment. The nuchal organs are embedded in the median pair of lobes, as are additional photoreceptor-like sensory structures, the ocellar tubes, which are found at the bases of epidermal follicles that extend deeply into the brain. The retractor muscles of the prostomium are attached to the apices of these follicles, which are lined by tendon and supportive cells. The lumen of each follicle is completely filled with cuticular material that forms a rod. Monociliary sensory cells are present all along the length of each follicle; their cilia extend into the cuticle, and are oriented parallel to the longitudinal axis of the tube. Basally, each follicle forms an ovoid extension that is devoid of cuticular material and densely filled with numerous sensory processesmicrovilli and cilia of bipolar sensory cells. The terminal end of the 40-m-deep follicle is formed by two conspicuous cells that contain numerous densely packed vesicles that resemble pigment granules. The ocellar tubes of fauveliopsids are strikingly similar to the ocular tubes of sipunculids. These similarities may reflect common ancestry or may represent convergent evolution; both alternatives are partially supported by previous morphological and molecular studies.
3227257| Freshwater members of the phylum Gastrotricha were long thought to lack male gametes and to exist exclusively as parthenogenetic females. The surprising 1978 discovery of sperm in the common species Lepidodermella squamata raised the question of how many other freshwater gastrotrichs might likewise be hermaphroditic. In a comparative study of species from across both major families, sperm have been found in every species examined intensively. They were detected in 19 species of Chaetonotidae (from Aspidiophorus, Chaetonotus, Heterolepidoderma, Ichthydium, Lepidodermella, and Polymerurus) and 3 species of Dasydytidae (from Haltidytes, Setopus, and Stylochaeta), characteristically occurring ventrally in single unilateral or (more often) 2-12 bilateral packets. Their shape ranges from filiform (length in Chaetonotus bisacer, ~40 m) to rodlike, spindlelike, oval, and possibly spherical (some in Stylochaeta scirtetica measure only 1 m). With light microscopy, a dense nucleus appears to fill the entire volume of these aflagellate cells. Spermatogenesis within cysts (maximally, 16 sperm/clone) is evidently characteristic of both families, each cyst generating one large residual body. Sperm-bearers display oocytes with sometimes distinctive cytoplasmic elements and a posterior X-organ whose organization can be complex. Evidence supports an unusual life cycle in which parthenogenesis is followed by simultaneous hermaphroditism. These findings may illuminate the reproductive characters as well as ancestry of marine and brackish-water taxa of Chaetonotida. 
40981222|Individuals of the recently described demosponge Thoosa mismalolli are common on Mexican Pacific coral reefs, excavating burrows in living corals and in other calcareous substrata. To better understand the propagative abilities of this sponge, we conducted a histological study over an 18-month period (May 2007-November 2008) to identify sexual and asexual reproductive structures. Members of the species are viviparous and hermaphroditic, with various developmental stages of oocytes, spermatic cysts, and embryos co-occurring in the mesohyl for most of the year. This nearly continuous reproductive activity intensified during the warm season. Fertilization was internal, and embryos developed inside the parental sponge to produce an unciliated hoplitomella larva, characterized by a peculiar siliceous skeleton. In addition to the sexually generated larvae, adults of T. mismalolli formed gemmules for asexual reproduction. Gemmules occurred within the mesohyl during all months of the year, but were most abundant in the coldest months. This combination of sexual and asexual processes enables individuals of T. mismalolli to reproduce almost continuously. This strategy may facilitate both long-term persistence within reefs and effective dispersal between distant reefs.
10.2307/3227054|Descriptions and scanning electron micrographs of the shell, protoconch, radula, and gross external anatomy are provided for four species of cocculiniform limpets collected from hadal depths of the Cayman and Puerto Rico trenches. Of these, one represents a new genus and species, Macleaniella moskalevi (Cocculinidae), endemic to the Puerto Rico Trench. Another, Amphiplica plutonica (Pseudococculinidae), represents a new species from the Cayman Trench of a globally distributed abyssal genus. The original descriptions of the remaining two species, Fedikovella caymanensis (Cocculinidae) and Caymanabyssia spina (Pseudococculinidae), both from the Cayman Trench and type species of their respective genera, contained only poorly reproduced illustrations of portions of the shells, and line drawings of isolated rows of radular teeth. These four species, each apparently endemic to their respective trenches, represent the deepest records of molluscs collected in the Atlantic Ocean.
3227153|The sperms of the Acoela, a group of lower worms, are filiform cells with 2 flagella incorporated into the cell body. Their axonemes can variously have 9+2, 9+1, or 9+0 patterns of microtubules; and singlet microtubules in the cell body can be arranged in axial or cortical positions. An analysis of phylogenetic relationships of acoels based on molecular characters (18S rDNA sequence data) showed that these patterns of microtubules, where known, fell into discrete monophyletic groups. To test this hypothesis, we have expanded the database of sperm characters by examining the ultrastructure of a further 10 species representing 4 acoel families. As expected, the Convolutidae fell into 2 unrelated groups: "small-bodied convolutids" (Convoluta pulchra, Praeconvoluta tigrina, Pseudaphanostoma smithrii) having 9+2 axonemes and cortical microtubules, and "large-bodied convolutids" (including Wulguru cuspidata) having 9+0 axonemes and axial microtubules. Also, as expected, a member of the Mecynostomidae (Paedomecynostomum bruneum) has 9+1 axonemes and axial microtubules. Members of a family that appears intermediate by molecular characters, the Otocelididae, significantly have a variety of patterns: axonemes with both 9+2 and 9+0 patterns (Notocelis gullmarensis) or just 9+2 (the other species), and either axial (Philocelis brueggemanni), both axial and cortical (N. gullmarensis) microtubules, or microtubules that bend between axial and cortical positions along the length of the sperm (Otocelis sandara). Members of the Dakuidae (Daku woorimensis) also belong to this intermediate group, having 9+2 axonemes and axial microtubules, while in a fifth otocelidid (Stomatricha hochbergi), sperm characters are like those of the "largebodied convolutids" (9+0 axonemes and axial microtubules). Characters of sperm morphology generally support the molecular hypothesis of relationships and confirm a suspected polyphyly of the families Convolutidae, Otocelididae, and Actinoposthiidae.
3227213|Ceratal autotomy by the aeolid nudibranch Phidiana crassicornis is common in the field and was induced in the laboratory by mechanical and predatory stimuli. The ceras detaches from the body wall along an autotomy plane located at its basal constriction. Cerata released copious amounts of mucus during autotomy and exhibited a prolonged writhing response that continued for several hours after detachment. Regeneration of cerata autotomized in the field and in the laboratory was documented. Four days after autotomy, regenerating cerata appeared as small protuberances. By day 24 the regenerates acquired their mature structural organisation and vivid colour. The cerata subsequently increased in length and diameter and were indistinguishable from surrounding cerata by 41 to 43 days after autotomy. Regeneration rates of cerata induced to autotomize in the laboratory and regeneration of cerata autotomized in the field were similar, averaging 0.08 and 0.067 mm/day, respectively. The sequence of morphological events involved with regeneration following experimental and natural induction of autotomy was identical. The kelp crab Pugettia producta induced autotomy by holding cerata with its chelae. This crab also fed on autotomized cerata and consumed locomotory and ceratal mucus. Ceratal autotomy may be an important mechanism of escape from this predatory crustacean. Other potential predators including hermit crabs and tidepool sculpins did not elicit defensive behaviour in P. crassicornis. Nematocysts were present in the cnidosacs and their role in defense was investigated. Fired nematocysts were observed in podia of the asteroid Crossaster papposus following ceratal contact but were not seen in the podia of Pycnopodia helianthoides in a similar trial. For P. crassicornis, the cnidosacs may function primarily as a storage device for safe sequestering of nematocysts that could pose a threat to the digestive system. They did not play a major defensive role against the predators tested, but may be important in the field against other predators.
4621914|This study describes a technique to record small (1 cm) distance changes or movements occurring in seawater using a simple electronic circuit and miniature ball electrodes. This low-cost technique was designed to directly measure such changes in a broad range of experiments involving small marine invertebrates while minimizing the mechanical loading of the structures of interest. The circuit detects and amplifies small changes in the resistance of seawater between two electrodes as the distance between them varies; these are then converted to voltage changes. After calibrating the output of the device with known distance measurements, it was evaluated using a test organism by monitoring and recording the body flushing behavior of the sea squirt, Styela plicata. Electrodes were sewn to the tunic at the base of the atrial siphon and changes in its diameter were recorded >24-h periods. Using ~3-cm-tall sea squirts, the distance between the electrodes expanded and contracted with a range of 5.5 mm during rhythmic flushings. Flushes occurred on average every 4.1 min and showed a rapid initial contraction, followed by a slower expansion while refilling. Attaching electrodes to the tunic had little mechanical or behavioral effect; the untouched control specimen had similar flushing rates. The movement monitor circuit is stable, sensitive, and performed well in fullstrength seawater experiments where good spatial and high temporal resolution, low inertial loading, and low noise were required. The technique, as shown here, can be used to record a wide range of animal movements and further suggested modifications of the circuit may suit a broad range of other experimental situations.
3227198|Embryonic development from coeloblastula to fully developed larva was investigated in 8 Mediterranean homoscleromorph species: Oscarella lobularis, O. tuberculata, O. microlobata, O. imperialis, Plakina trilopha, P. jani, Corticium candelabrum, and Pseudocorticium jarrei. Morphogenesis of the larva is similar in all these species; however, cell proliferation is more active in species of Oscarella than in Plakina and C. candelabrum. The result of cell division is a wrinkled, flagellated larva, called a cinctoblastula. It is composed of a columnar epithelium of polarized, monoflagellated cells among which are scattered a few non-flagellated ovoid cells. The central cavity always contains symbiotic bacteria. Maternal cells are also present in O. lobularis, O. imperialis, and P. jarrei. In the fully developed larva, cell shape and dimensions are constant for each species. The cells of the anterior pole have large vacuoles with heterogeneous material; those of the postero-lateral zone have an intranuclear paracrystalline inclusion; and the flagellated cells of the posterior pole have large osmiophilic inclusions. Intercellular junctions join the apical parts of the cells, beneath which are other specialized cell junctions. A basement membrane underlying the flagellated cells lines the larval cavity. This is the first observation of a basement membrane in a poriferan larva. The basal apparatus of flagellated cells is characterized by an accessory centriole located exactly beneath the basal body. The single basal rootlet is cross striated. The presence of a basement membrane and a true epithelium in the larva of Homoscleromorpha-unique among poriferan clades and shared with Eumetazoa-suggests that Demospongiae could be paraphyletic.
23016666|Cnidarians have extracellular matrix, or mesoglea, situated between an outer epidermis and an inner gastrodermis. In this article, we describe the ultrastructure of the mesoglea of polyps of Nematostella vectensis during development and regeneration. The column wall of recently metamorphosed polyps had basal laminae composed of a meshwork of thin filaments underlying each epithelium and a network of unstriated thick (2025 nm in diameter) and thin fibrils (5 nm) decorated with particulate matter. In juvenile polyps with eight tentacles, the system of thick fibrils was concentrated near the gastrodermis. In the column wall and mesenteries of the adult there were bundles of thick fibrils that ran parallel to the myonemes. In regenerating polyps 2 days after transection, the network of thin fibrils and particulate material as well as the basal lamina largely disappeared in the healing part of the oral, but not aboral, half. In the regenerating portion of the aboral half 1 and 2 days after transection, the bundles of thick fibrils were smaller and less organized, and the basal laminae were thicker than in the column wall of untransected polyps. In both regenerating halves, the general organization of the mesoglea of normal polyps was reattained by 5 days after transection. At all stages the mesoglea contained cellular processes that may belong to amebocytes; nucleated amebocytes with a range of shapes were present in the mesoglea of the column wall and mesenteries of adult polyps. Certain features of the mesoglea of members of N. vectensis and Hydra are similar, especially the ultrastructure of the basal laminae, but the fibrillar systems of these two model cnidarians are different. Temporal and spatial differences in the composition of the mesoglea of N. vectensis point to different roles for its components during development and regeneration.
3227131|Early development and metamorphosis of Reniera sp., a haplosclerid demosponge, have been examined to determine how gastrulation occurs in this species, and whether there is an inversion of the primary germ layers at metamorphosis. Embryogenesis occurs by unequal cleavage of blastomeres to form a solid blastula consisting micro- and macromeres; multipolar migration of the micromeres to the surface of the embryo results in a bi-layered embryo and is interpreted as gastrulation. Polarity of the embryo is determined by the movement of pigment-containing micromeres to one pole of the embryo; this pole later becomes the posterior pole of the swimming larva. The bi-layered larva has a fully differentiated monociliated outer cell layer, and a solid interior of various cell types surrounded by dense collagen. The pigmented cells at the posterior pole give rise to long cilia that are capable of responding to environmental stimuli. Larvae settle on their anterior pole. Fluorescent labeling of the monociliated outer cell layer with a cell-lineage marker (CMFDA) demonstrates that the monociliated cells resorb their cilia, migrate inwards, and transdifferentiate into the choanocytes of the juvenile sponge, and into other amoeboid cells. The development of the flagellated choanocytes and other cells in the juvenile from the monociliated outer layer of this sponge's larva is interpreted as the dedifferentiation of fully differentiated larval cells-a process seen during the metamorphosis of other ciliated invertebrate larvae-not as inversion of the primary germ layers. These results suggest that the sequences of development in this haplosclerid demosponge are not very different than those observed in many cnidarians.
23016258|Because of their reproductive biology, spiders are extremely promising subjects for testing hypotheses on sexual selection. Further, their genital morphology provides useful characteristics for taxonomy. However, the structure and functional morphology of the genitalia of members of most spider groups are poorly known. This is especially true for members of the Haplogynae. In this article, the female genitalia of three oonopid species are described, using light and scanning electron microscopy. The male palps are also briefly described. The female genitalia of all these three species do not correspond to the description of haplogyne genital systems given in the literature. Receptacula are lacking in the genitalia of Opopaea deserticola and Zyngoonops sp. Sperm are present in the uterus internus of members of these two species, indicating that fertilization occurs there or in the ovary. Females of Zyngoonops sp. have a pouch that possibly holds appendages on the male endites during copulation. Modifications on the endites might allow males to exert copulatory courtship. A secretory sac was found inside the receptaculum of Gamasomorpha lutzi. Previous studies on oonopids with the same type of genitalia showed that the sac contains sperm and that it can be discarded during copulation. Spermatozoa were also found inside the uterus internus of members of G. lutzi. A sclerite in the uterus wall of females of all three species might serve to lock the uterus during copulation in order to prevent sperm from getting into it, as suggested for a variety of other oonopids. The male palps of O. deserticola and Zyngoonops sp. are simple. Furrows on the emboli of G. lutzi suggest that males use the palps as copulatory courtship devices. The present study reveals the complex genital morphology of three species belonging to the little known spider family Oonopidae, and provides new insights into the function of their genitalia in the context of sexual selection.
3227252| The appendicularians, planktonic tunicates, possess a specialized, external filtering system that captures food particles <1 m in size. In this work the alimentary canal of Oikopleura dioica has been studied by serial sections of whole animals and ultrastructure. The gut includes a dorsal esophagus, a bilobed saccular stomach, and a curved intestine, divided into vertical, mid-, and distal intestine (or rectum). No multicellular glands or cellular proliferative centers were found. Three main cell types were recognized, ciliated microvillar cells, globular cells and gastric band cells, with specializations reflecting different physiological roles in the various regions. Ciliated microvillar cells, the most diffuse, are considered to be involved in food propulsion, fecal pellet formation, absorption, and nutrient storage. Pinocytotic features and vacuoles suggest that absorption of macromolecules and intracellular digestion occur in the globular cells of the stomach and rectum. The large gastric band cells of the left lobe have typical features of intense protein synthesis and probably produce enzymes for extracellular digestion. Diffuse interdigitations of many cells enormously increase the plasmalemma surface and may be involved in liquid/ion exchange. Despite the apparent structural simplicity of the gut epithelium, O. dioica efficiently processes food to fulfill the energy requirements of its exceptionally rapid life-cycle. 
3227218|The oral surface and mouth of juvenile asteroids and echinoids with indirect development forms on the lower left side of the larval body, thus establishing a new axis of body symmetry. In contrast, the juvenile mouth of ophiuroids and holothuroids develops from the larval one, and the larval and adult body axes roughly coincide. Explaining how two such disparate modes of development arose in evolution has been a perennial problem for echinoderm biologists, but recent observations on larval budding in asteroids may provide an answer. The juvenile mouth of asteroids forms near the base of the left posterolateral lobe. The posterolateral lobes are also the principal site of bud formation in asteroid larvae that propagate asexually, and buds form mouths. By accelerating the development of oral and ectodermal structures belonging to the bud, and combining these with internal organs derived from the parent larva, a composite individual could be constructed with the same orientation and positioning as the juvenile rudiment in asteroids. Whether this also explains the position of the juvenile rudiment in echinoids is a more complex question, depending in part on whether asexual propagation is derived, and restricted to asteroids and ophiuroids, or is more primitive and hence widespread among stem echinoderms.
10.2307/3226868|The mouthparts (labrum, mandibles, and maxillae) of three litter-dwelling collembolan species-Orchesella hexfasciata (Entomobryidae), Isotoma notabilis (Isotomidae), and Sminthurinus henshawi (Sminthuridae)-are described, using both light and scanning electron microscopy. The right molar plate of all three species bears a projection that fits into a corresponding depression on the left molar plate, a previously unnoticed but possibly common and important feature. Based on the free-standing nature of molar plate rods, we suggest a brushing rather than a grinding function. The mouthparts of these species are structurally very similar, but differ in size. Size of labrum and mandibles probably dictates the size of food particles ingested. The rake-like structure of lamella 1 on the maxillar head of I. notabilis may explain why the gut contents of this species consist largely of colloidal material.
3227232|Pieces cut from colonies of the soft coral Dendronephthya hemprichi exhibited rapid and effective attachment to hard surfaces. Attachment involved development of root-like processes (RLPs), which appeared at the basal part of the fragment 4 days after its removal from the colony. The fine structural changes and cascade of cellular events occurring in the RLP before and after attachment were studied using SEM, TEM, and LM. The epidermis of the RLPs is actively involved in the attachment process and several distinct phases are documented: appearance of numerous oval vesicles, extrusion of these vesicles resulting in the formation of an outer layer composed of extracellular organic matrix and organellar debris, which functions as an adhesive device leading to initial attachment. The latter phase was followed by the formation of desmocytes, which develop in the RLP epidermis and function as anchoring devices, mediating the firm attachment of the fragment to the substrate. This is the first evidence among anthozoans that desmocytes play an active role in anchoring tissue to substrate and thus extends the range of functions exhibited by desmocytes among anthozoans.
10.2307/3227060|Juveniles of Ophiomastix annulosa live on adults of Ophiocoma scolopendrina, a confamilial broadcast-spawner, in the intertidal zone of Sesoko Is., Okinawa, Japan. This is the first reported instance of a symbiosis between heterospecific ophiuroids. In the sense that the juveniles are brooded by another species, they may be regarded as "brood parasites." There is no evidence that the symbionts physically damage the host, although they may steal its food. O. annulosa of less than 4.5 mm disk diameter primarily occupy the bursae, and also cling to the arms or disk of their hosts. The association is seen year round, usually with 4.2% or fewer of O. scolopendrina being involved. There is generally one juvenile, rarely two, on a host. The body size of the host may limit the maximum size of its symbionts. The ontogenetic transition of O. annulosa from a symbiotic to a free-living life style involves marked changes in integument, arm spine morphology, tube foot structure, disk armament, and pigmentation pattern. Adults of Ophiocoma scolopendrina harbor conspecific juveniles as well, a relatively rare behavior among ophiuroids, but only juveniles of O. annulosa occur in its bursae, the respiratory structures that in brooding and viviparous ophiuroids also serve as brood chambers. An association between adult and juvenile individuals is documented for a Panamanian population of Ophiocoma aethiops, and evidence is presented of a heterospecific symbiosis between juveniles of Ophiomastix janualis and adults of Ophiomastix flaccida in the Philippines.
40206202|Members of Odontocymbiola magellanica (Volutidae, Odontocymbiolinae) inhabit Argentinean waters from 35S to the Magallanes Strait. The reproductive biology of this potential fishery resource has not been studied before. Male individuals reach maturity at 80 mm and females at 90 mm, corresponding to ~7 and 8 years of age, respectively. Mating was observed in the field in all seasons and females possess live spermatozoa in the bursa copulatrix all year round, suggesting that living sperm can be preserved for several months. Major oviposition events occurred July (winter) to December (summer) during the 5 years sampled, as characterized by aggregation of females coincident with increasing photoperiod from winter to summer solstices, and not, apparently, by increase in water temperature. Males showed gametogenic activity throughout the year. Gamete resorption occurred in both sexes. Ultrastructural studies showed that oocytes are attached to companion cells, which enables cell-cell communication and provides support until evacuation; males showed normal sperm cells and two types of parasperms. If populations of O. magellanica are commercially exploited in the future, we propose a minimum catch size of 100 mm, and a ban on the collection of females and egg capsules during the reproductive season.
10.2307/3226899| Arenicolids have hooked setae aligned in a transverse row inside the neuropodial rim of each setigerous segment. Each seta consists of a large tooth (rostrum), several smaller spines (capitium) that partially cover the rostrum, and a shaft. Rostrum and shaft meet at an angle of about 100 in adults and 70 in recently settled specimens. The hooked setae of the latter stages also bear several hair-like structures, which arise from the shaft and surround the rostrum. These setae develop ventrally. Their structure is determined by modifications of the microvillar pattern on the surface of the basalmost cell of the setal follicle, the chaetoblast. In Arenicola marina, chaetogenesis starts with the rostrum, which is formed by a group of microvilli; each spine of the capitium is formed by a single stout microvillus. When both structures have been formed, the longitudinal axis of the anlage shifts due to a reorientation of actin filaments in the microvilli. The hairs of recently settled specimens are formed by long microvilli arising from the apex of the chaetoblast, which lies lateral to the setal anlage. All microvilli merge during the formation of the shaft. Hooked setae have been previously described for sabellidan, terebellidan, pogonophoran, arenicolid, maldanid, psammodrilid, and oweniid polychaetes. Similarities in form and development support homology of these setae, which characterize a monophyletic group within the Annelida. We propose that the ventral site of formation characterizes a sistergroup of arenicolids and maldanids. 
3227258|The ultrastructure of the ciliary apparatus of multiciliated epidermal cells of the trochophore of Epimenia babai and the adult of Strophomenia scandens was studied. The trochal cirri of E. babai consists of long cilia with unspecialized tips. The surfaces between the trochs are sparsely covered with shorter cilia of similar structure except for length. In the adult of S. scandens, the foot is covered by a dense mat of cilia with blunt electron-dense tips. In both E. babai and S. scandens, all cilia have two perpendicularly orientated rootlets. This condition is similar to that of the Chaetodermomorpha (=Caudofoveata) and Polyplacophora. In other molluscs studied to date, the cilia of multiciliated epidermal cells have a single rootlet or a derivative thereof. The presence of two ciliary rootlets likely represents the basal plesiomorphic state for the Bilateria. The existence of this character in the Neomeniomorpha, Chaetodermomorpha, and Polyplacophora is congruent with the hypothesis of a basal position of these taxa within the Mollusca.
10.2307/3227032|Sexually mature individuals of three exogonine syllid species carry eggs or embryos on the dorsolateral body surface above the parapodia. They are attached to the body by chaetae that either penetrate the egg envelope (Sphaerosyllis hermaphrodita) or are closely apposed to the eggs (Brania sp. and B. subterranea). The chaetae are delicate capillaries packed together in bundles; they originate in epidermal thickenings or sacs situated dorsally and slightly anterior to the dorsal cirri. These chaetae are present only in sexually mature animals, and thus are interpreted as epitokous structures, but they are not homologous with the epitokous swimming chaetae situated below the dorsal cirri occurring in several syllids.
40206214|Intersexes are common in crustaceans. Typically, these intersexes are sterile or function as females, but prior evidence from laboratory experiments suggests that intersexes of a key species of gammaridean amphipod, Corophium volutator, might function as males. We observed that intersexes of C. volutator behaved as males by crawling (mate-searching) on a mudflat during ebb tides and pairing in burrows with female amphipods. In the laboratory, intersexes and males did not differ in aspects of crawling such as movement rate and measures of burrow investigation. Pntersexuality was costly in that intersexes crawled less often than males on a mudflat, formed fewer pairs with females than males, and remained in tandem less often with receptive females than males. The use of PCR-based identification methods failed to identify the presence of transovarial, feminizing, microsporidian parasites as a major cause of intersexuality in this species in that infected females did not produce broods that contained more intersexes than broods produced by uninfected females. Because intersexes may be mistaken as females, the percentage of functional males in amphipod populations may be underestimated: an important consideration given male limitation in populations of C. volutator. The occurrence of intersexes has significant implications for studies on the evolution and ecology of sex ratios, and the use of crustaceans as indicators of environmental quality.
10.2307/3226933|Previous models of particle feeding have focused on optimal solutions for particle acquisition or absorption. We propose two conceptual approaches to treat particle feeders as an integrated system of compartments, in hopes of understanding critical limiting factors that might be overlooked by focusing on only one part. The compartment model treats a particle feeder as a series of structures that process particles, with characteristic residence times within compartments and transfer points between them. These might change with overall particle food value and proportion of poor particles. As a non-exclusive alternative, the pathway model considers particle transfer as being analogous to enzyme control systems, with feedback loops that may involve interactions such as negative feedback between compartments that engage in no direct transfer. We examine these models in the light of some studies of particle handling by the deposit-feeding bivalves Yoldia limatula, Macoma secta, and M. nasuta, and the suspension-feeding oyster Crassostrea gigas. In Y. limatula, palp overloading results in feedback that shuts down the particle-collecting palp proboscis. In Macoma, nearly all particles are rejected, suggesting that rejection is necessary because digestion and gut residence time are limiting factors. We suggest that a whole-system approach is important in understanding particle processing by deposit feeders and suspension feeders.
10.2307/3226898|Boccardia proboscidea has poecilogonous development, i.e., it produces more than one type of offspring. Patterns of larval development within one population (La Jolla, CA) vary both among broods produced by different females, and also within a single brood, as some females produce both planktotrophic larvae and benthic juveniles within a single egg capsule. The mode of larval development is linked to the production of nurse eggs, non-viable eggs that are ingested by developing larvae (a process called adelphophagy). Not all females produce nurse eggs and most observed here produced only developing oocytes (Type 1 development). Type 1 females produce offspring that hatch at an early larval stage (3-setiger) and are planktotrophic for 30 d before metamorphosing. Type 2 females are similar to Type 1, but ~15% of the eggs per brood are non-developing nurse eggs. Type 2 offspring ingest the nurse eggs, larvae are slightly more advanced at hatching (3-5 setigers), and have a shorter planktotrophic period (19 d) than do Type 1 larvae. Type 3 females differ in that they produce broods in which most eggs (~90%) are nurse eggs. Offspring in Type 3 broods are either adelphophagic (ingest nurse eggs, have accelerated development, and hatch as juveniles) or non-adelphophagic (do not ingest nurse eggs and are similar to Type 1 planktotrophic larvae). Adults of each type are morphologically and ecologically similar and offspring of Type 1 and Type 3 females are interfertile. Although larval development varies among females, a single female will consistently produce broods of the same type. Poecilogony has been reported previously in B. proboscidea, but this is the first report of three developmental morphs within one population.
40206217|Male crickets produce conspicuous acoustic signals to attract mates and deter potential rivals. These signals are created when a male cricket closes his wings rapidly and a file and scraper mechanism causes several areas of the wing to vibrate. The harp is an area of the wing that is part of the resonating structure. Because the harp acts as part of a mechanical resonator, changes in harp area or mass could influence the frequency of sound produced. Because females exhibit stabilizing selection on the frequency used in male songs, we hypothesized that there would be a negative allometric relationship between body size and harp area. In addition, we examined the degree of asymmetry in the harp, wing, and tibia. We examined this in four different species of cricket: Acheta domesticus, Gryllus bimaculatus, Gryllus rubens, and Teleogryllus oceanicus. For each species, we measured pronotum width as an index of body size, tibia length, and the area of the forewing and harp. There were significant differences among species in their morphological characteristics. We observed consistent directional asymmetry in the harp area but not in the total wing area. When wings did exhibit directional asymmetry, it was in the opposite direction of the directional asymmetry observed in the harp. Within species, larger males typically had larger harps and the relationship between harp area and body size exhibited negative allometry. Wing area exhibited an isometric relationship with body size. Our data provide a potential mechanism linking decreases in song frequency with body size in male crickets, and suggest that sensory constraints might influence the morphology of signaling structures in a similar fashion as genitalia.
3227121|In this paper we summarize current knowledge of the distribution, ecology, and reproductive biology of 4 encrusting species in the soft coral family Alcyoniidae, with descriptions of 2 new genera and 2 new species. The new genus Discophyton is erected for Alcyonium rudyi, a species common in the lower intertidal of exposed rocky headlands from Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada south to Point Lobos, California, USA. Discophyton rudyi n. gen. & n. comb. propagates extensively by clonal fission, giving rise to characteristic aggregations of small, regularly spaced, disc-shaped colonies. We describe 2 new species and place them in a new genus, Thrombophyton. Thrombophyton coronatum n. gen. & n. sp. forms irregularly shaped, membranous colonies on rock surfaces; it occurs subtidally along the southern California coast from the Palos Verdes Peninsula to San Diego and on the California Islands. Thrombophyton trachydermum n. gen. & n. sp. has a similar, membranous growth form; it occurs both intertidally and subtidally on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada, and in the San Juan Archipelago, Washington, and intertidally in central California, USA. Alcyonium pacificum, reported for the first time from North American waters, occurs in subtidal kelp beds around the Aleutian islands of Attu and Adak; its mushroom-shaped colonies are raised above the substrate on a short stalk. D. rudyi, T. trachydermum, and A. pacificum are all gonochores that reproduce in late summer; in contrast, T. coronatum appears to reproduce in the spring. D. rudyi and T. coronatum brood larvae internally to a late planula stage. A key to species is presented for all shallow-water soft corals known to occur in the northeastern Pacific Ocean.
25623047|Population size, reproductive timing and habitats, seasonal behaviors, and juvenile activity were assessed in a British Columbia population of the endangered Oregon forestsnail, Allogona townsendiana, over a period of 4 years. Adult snail population size ranged from seven to 47 snails in four  24-m sampling sites. The mating period peaked in March and April; adults aggregated in clusters of eight to 14 snails before mating. Pairs of snails were observed to mate for 225 min or more in close proximity to coarse woody debris and stinging nettle, Urtica dioica. Nesting peaked in AprilMay and resulted in a mean clutch size of 34 eggs (SD = 9). Hatching for two nests occurred at 63 and 64 d after oviposition. Within hours of hatching, juveniles began dispersing from the nest site; by 1 month most had disappeared. Snails tracked with harmonic radar became less active or aestivated from late July to early September and hibernated from early November to mid-March within leaf litter and soil. Preliminary measurements of growth rate indicate this species takes a minimum of 2 years to reach adulthood and has a typical life span of at least 5 years.
23016707|Cues released by predators and injured prey often induce shifts in prey behavior that allow prey to evade predators, but also affect prey resource use. I investigated the effects of chemical and mechanical signals produced by injured snails (Physella gyrina) and predatory crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) on microdistributions of P. gyrina. In an initial experiment, I observed snail responses to the presence of a caged crayfish predator, to injured conspecifics, or to both. There were significant effects of time and the treatment  time interaction on the proportion of snails moving above the water line, with greater proportions of snails above the water line at night than during the day and with weak snail crawl-out behavior being elicited by caged crayfish at night, but not during the day. In a second experiment, I examined snail microdistributions when exposed to crayfish confined to a small cage within each aquarium, crayfish confined to half of each aquarium, and crayfish ranging freely throughout each aquarium. Snails responded most strongly to free-ranging crayfish by moving above the water line, but also demonstrated significant, but reduced, crawl-out responses to crayfish confined to half of each aquarium; however, snails did not respond behaviorally to crayfish confined to small cages. In both experiments, there were marginally significant effects of unfed caged crayfish on the proportions of snail populations hiding under benthic shelters, with this response being the strongest at the start of the experiments but weak overall (with only 45% of P. gyrina responding in each experiment). These results indicate that cues (e.g., chemical or mechanical) produced by predators altered prey microdistributions, but that the exact prey responses (e.g., moving above the water line or into horizontal or benthic refugia) depended on the intensity and nature of cues.
4621892| A sequential in vivo approach was used to examine the transformations undergone by oocytes during transit in the gonoduct of the sea cucumber Holothuria leucospilota, from ovulation until fertilization competency. Spasms of the ovarian muscle bands, during the prespawning locomotor activity of the females, coincided with the extrusion of oocytes from the follicle cells (ovulation). No germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD) was visible and the oocytes were not fertilizable. As the animal began to display the anterior sweeping movements characteristic of spawning, the oocytes streamed out of the gonad and were stored in the gonad basis. The oocytes, which were still non-fertilizable, were then pressed forward through the first (proximal) section of the gonoduct. GVBD was completed during this rapid transit, but oocytes could not be fertilized unless they had soaked 20 min in seawater. In the second (distal) section of the gonoduct, most oocytes were readily fertilizable; fertilization rates increased noticeably after the formation of a bulge beneath the gonopore, which favored the entry of seawater. Hydration of the jelly coat was apparent (i.e., a 60% increase in oocyte surface area). Gamete release occurred in one powerful spurt 85 min after the onset of ovulation. This oocyte maturation sequence is expected to occur in holothurian species with similar anatomy and spawning behavior. 
40981235|The bivalve Raetellops pulchella is a highly specialized, deposit-feeding member of the Mactridae. Studies of its form and function provide an example of how the bivalve body plan can be modified to facilitate the exploitation of mud as a food resource, and help in understanding how this lifestyle has evolved. Adaptations to this lifestyle include an overall reduction in ctenidial size and loss of the descending lamellae of both outer demibranchs. This reduction is associated with the enlargement of the labial palps to process inhaled sediment. In the mantle cavity, a waste canal below the posterior mantle flaps facilitates pseudofeces removal. The midgut is long and capacious, presumably to cope with the large amounts of ingested organic material. In addition, individuals of R. pulchella have unusually thin, brittle, and rostrate shells, with narrow siphonal gapes. They possess a shell buttress in each valve extending from the hinge plate to above the posterior adductor muscle. This buttress functions to prevent the brittle shell valves from fracturing when adduction occurs. A buttress is also seen in some representatives of the Anomalodesmata; in particular, the situation in R. pulchella is most like that seen in individuals of the similarly deposit-feeding species Offadesma angasi (Anomalodesmata: Periplomatidae). I interpret the similar shell form of these deposit-feeding clams as an example of convergent evolution.
23016673|According to anecdotal evidence, some spiders are inaccurate mimics of ants, that is, they resemble one or several ant models in coloration, but not in body form. Here, we studied the mimetic accuracy of individuals of three myrmecomorphic species, Liophrurillus flavitarsis, Phrurolithus festivus, and Micaria sociabilis, and their association with ant models to find evidence in support of hypotheses suggested to explain the maintenance of inaccurate mimicry. We found that all three species occur together with their models. Individuals of L. flavitarsis and P. festivus associated with a few ant species, while specimens of M. sociabilis only associated with a single species. The density of spiders was several hundred times lower than that of their models. The myrmecomorphs resembled their models in color, body length, and speed of movement but not in some aspects of behavior (specifically, gait and opisthosoma bobbing). Behavioral resemblance might markedly improve the inaccurate static visual resemblance, resulting in overall high accuracy. However, the constant movement of mimics and models may not allow operators to discriminate between them, thus relaxing selection for more accurate visual mimicry.
3701481| Larvae of the freshwater swan mussel, Anodonta cygnea, were cultured in artificial media at the controlled temperature of 23  2C, with successful metamorphosis for the first time. The artificial medium contained a mixture of M199, common carp plasma, and antibiotics/antimycotics. Glochidia were reared to the juvenile stage in the medium after 10-11 d of culture. After 15 d of controlled feeding with phytoplankton, the juveniles showed an elongated shell with several growth lines. Larval survival was 34.3  9.3%, whereas the proportion undergoing metamorphosis was  60.8  4.2%. The ultrastructure of early developmental stages was observed by scanning electron microscopy, from the glochidial to the juvenile stage. Glochidia had a hooked shell, with two equal triangular valves formed by a calcareous layer with numerous pores and covered by a thin cuticle of chitin-keratin. The appearance of the complete foot within 11 d of in vitro culture was considered the final feature of metamorphosis to the juvenile stage. The main alteration during juvenile development was the formation, under the glochidial shell, of a new periostracum with growth lines. The prominent foot, gradually covered by long, dense cilia, showed rhythmical movements involved in the capture of particulate matter. Similarly, cilia and microvilli present in the mantle also performed the same role. Longer cilia, sparsely distributed in the mantle, may function as chemotactile sensors. 
3227125|The gametogenesis of the earthworm Hormogaster elisae, an endemic species of central Spain, was studied over a 12-month period. The ovaries, seminal vesicles, male funnels, and spermathecae of 156 specimens were removed by dissection. Microscopic analysis of these organs allowed the study of the gametogenic cycle, and provided information on copulation method and reproductive cycle. Individuals of H. elisae have two pairs of spermathecae, the posterior of which is more important for the storage of sperm. In summer, the earthworms enter quiescence, and oogenesis and spermatogenesis are interrupted. The gametogenic processes occur mainly during autumn and winter. Ovules are produced during all months except August and September, and the spermathecae contain sperm over the full 12-month period. There is a reproductive peak in spring, when most ovules are produced and the clitellum is most developed.
40663845|We examined the brain architecture in different species of Chaetognatha using immunofluorescence methods with a set of nervous system markers and confocal laser-scan microscopic analysis. These markers include antibodies against synaptic proteins, RFamiderelated peptides, and tyrosinated tubulin, as well as a marker of cell nuclei. Furthermore, we present a 3D reconstruction based on histological section series. Our results expand the previous knowledge on neuroanatomy in Chaetognatha. We suggest a structural and functional subdivision of the rather complex chaetognath brain into two domains, a posterior domain that may be primarily involved in the integration of sensory input, and an anterior domain that may be involved in the control of the mouthparts and the anterior part of the digestive system. Immunolocalization of a neuropeptide suggests the presence of an identifiable group of neurons associated with the brain of all species examined here. However, our data also reveal a certain degree of interspecific variation and divergence within the Chaetognatha concerning, for example, the pattern of nerves branching off the brain and the proportional sizes of the various neuropil compartments. We compare our data to brain architecture in various other representatives of Protostomia and Deuterostomia. The chaetognath brain fits within the range of structural variation encountered in protostomian brains, and we cannot find any brain characteristics that would argue in favor of placing chaetognaths outside of the Protostomia. Rather, we see the circumoral arrangement of their cephalic nervous system as an argument that suggests protostome affinities.
4621925|"Babysitting" symbioses between brittle star species involve juveniles of one species and adults of another. During this phenomenon, reported from many localities in the Indo-Pacific Ocean, juveniles are attached to the disk or lie in the bursa of the adults. The symbiosis between members of Ophiomastix venosa and their host, Ophiocoma scolopendrina, was investigated on the Great Barrier Reef of Toliara (Madagascar) during a 14-month period. The population of O. scolopendrina only occurs on rocky spurs that frequently emerge at low tide, while the population of O. venosa lies in adjacent surge channels that are always immersed. Only juveniles of O. venosa associated with adults of O. scolopendrina may occur on the rocky spurs. Analyses conducted on the populations of the two species showed that (1) the symbiosis is facultative and that symbiotic juveniles migrate into the channels when they reach a disc diameter of 6 mm, and (2) recruitment in the channels occurs in April. Host choice experiments, Y-tube experiments, and experiments assessing the resistance of the ophiuroids to air-drying were conducted in the laboratory. The experiments clearly demonstrated that (1) symbiotic juveniles of O. venosa specifically recognize adults of O. scolopendrina, while free juveniles of the same size do not, and (2) juveniles of O. venosa would not survive air-drying conditions similar to those observed on the spurs at low tides if they were not in symbiosis with adults of O. scolopendrina.
10.2307/3227011| Little work has been done to describe lancelets as filter feeders, and hitherto no data have existed on either filtration rates or the efficiency with which food particles are retained in the filters. The aim of the present work was to describe and characterize Branchiostoma lanceolatum as a true filter-feeding species. The clearance-rate capacity in B. lanceolatum was measured at naturally low algal concentrations, and used as a reference state representing the normal filtration rate in nature and for comparisons with video recordings of the feeding currents. Simultaneous measurements of clearance different-sized particles, prepared as a mixture of flagellates (Isochrysis, Rhinomonas, and Tetraselmis) showed that particles 4 m are retained by the mucus filter with 100% efficiency. The wavelength and speed of the metachronal wave of the lateral cilia, which generates the power of the branchial pump, were measured to estimate the ciliary beat frequency. Furthermore, transport rate, production, exposure time, and flow speed of water through the mucus filter was estimated. The loss of body dry-weight during a long term starvation period was used as an indirect measure of the respiration rate. The results are used to characterize filter feeding in B. lanceolatum in a way that may be compared to a number of other macro-invertebrate filter feeders that have been studied during recent years. 
10.2307/3227024|The reproductive biology of the Florida lancelet (Branchiostoma floridae) is described from over 21,000 animals collected from early summer 1991 through late summer 1995. Collections were made daily during summer and less frequently during other seasons. Minimal length at sexual maturity was about 23 mm for both sexes. The ratio of males to females was 1:1 throughout the year, and no hermaphrodites were found. During the breeding season (late spring through late summer), the population spawned just after sunset at intervals of 1-15 days, with an average interval of roughly a week. The proportion of lancelets spawning on a given date ranged from a small fraction to about 90% of the adult population. Spawning dates were not significantly correlated with lunar phase or fluctuations in salinity or water temperature. Lancelets could be induced to spawn by electric shock in the laboratory, but only on dates when they spawned in the field. A daily determination of gonad indexes suggested that individual males and females could spawn and then ripen and spawn again in the same breeding season, possibly in as little as 1-2 weeks. Fin-ray indexes (assumed to be proportional to somatic nutritional reserves) were highest in winter, when the lancelets were apparently well nourished but not breeding, and consistently low during the summer breeding season, when the animals were repeatedly spawning and presumably draining their nutritional reserves.
10.2307/3226988|The pericalymma larva of the protobranch bivalve Acita castrensis is described from sections and whole mounts using light and electron microscopy. This is one of few published descriptions of a protobranch larva and the first ultrastructural study of a member of the order Nuculoida. Comparisons with other protobranch pericalymmae are made with respect to size, morphology, ciliation, development mode, and larval period. Early embryogenesis follows a typical bivalve pattern and by day 5 results in a fully formed, barrel-shaped pericalymma with prominent apical tuft. The larva is planktic and lecithotrophic. It propels itself with three transverse bands of cilia and a patch of accessory locomotory cilia. Late-stage larvae become laterally compressed as the shell develops. Metamorphosis occurs at day 8 with shedding of the larval test. The pericalymma of A. castrensis most closely resembles that of Nucula proxima and N. turgida. They share features that are possibly unique to the Nuculidae including an ovoid form, 2 ab-apical openings in the test, a post-anal structure, no statocyst, and reduced musculature. The post-anal organ of A. castrensis is a unique larval organ possessing two types of cilia and a small cavity near the tip. The organ begins to form during mid-embryogenesis and most likely serves as a sensory device in site selection or as a locomotory director, but may perform other functions. The protobranch pericalymma may represent a modification of the veliger larva form, a precursor to the veliger form, or the veliger and pericalymma may have diverged from a common ancestral developmental form. The pericalymma also shares morphological similarities with the developmental forms of aplacophorans, archacogastropods, polyplacophorans, and scaphopods; all possess a test or velum with ciliary bands, and some possess a posterior protrusion. Further work is needed among these developmental forms to ascertain structural homologies and phylogenetic affinities.
3701470| We report on a study of reproduction and development in the Mediterranean vermetid gastropod Vermetus triquetrus from the SE coast of Spain. It is a gonochoristic species. The egg capsules are attached to the inside of the shell, and females brood up to 22 capsules simultaneously (more often 4-10). The capsules hold 10-61 eggs or embryos; the uncleaved eggs are yolk-rich, with a mean diameter of 377.3 m. A distinct polar lobe occurs during the first cleavage, and blastomere D has discernible qualities after the 4-cell stage. The formation of the mesentoblast 4d occurs at the transition from the 24-cell stage to the 25-cell stage. Gastrulation begins after the 36-cell stage. Internal yolk is the major source of nutrition for the encapsulated embryos, but some nurse eggs (~12%) and some sibling larvae are also ingested by the developing embryos. Hatching occurs during the swimming/crawling pediveliger stage, and metamorphosis is completed outside the capsules soon after hatching. Hence, larval development in Vermetus triquetrus is lecithotrophic intracapsular, with a short free-swimming/ crawling phase. 
10.2307/3227033|The marine worm Urechis caupo exhibits specialized secondary lysosomes termed sulfide-oxidizing bodies throughout the epithelial tissues of the alimentary canal which appear to concentrate environmental toxins such as aluminum, silica and sulfur, as revealed by X-ray microanalysis. Ultrastructural examination of the alimentary tract of U. caupo reveals a digestive tube consisting of an inner layer of epithelium lining the central lumen, a layer of connective tissue with embedded muscle fibers, and a peritoneal covering. The thickness, ciliation and morphology of the innermost epithelium show regional variation that correlate with functional specialization, and the main cell types are ciliated, microvillate, and mucus- and enzyme-secreting cells. In the anterior part of alimentary canal (esophagus, gizzard, and stomach), the epithelium is almost entirely composed of ciliated and mucus cells, serving to move particulate matter and fluids, and the gizzard epithelial morphology reflects comminution of food particles. In the midgut, the epithelium is composed of microvillate and enzyme-secreting cells, suggesting involvement in digestive and absorptive functions. The hindgut, which acts as a water lung and is devoid of any digestive function, is lined by microvillate cells involved in gaseous exchange. The epithelium of the body wall and hindgut have been previously reported to contain numerous sulfide-oxidizing bodies, similar in ultrastructure and elemental composition to those of the alimentary canal described here (Menon & Arp 1992; 1993). These unusual organelles, which form a peripheral defense on all exposed surfaces of the worm, are part of an extensive suite of sulfide detoxification and tolerance mechanisms which enable the worm to flourish in a sulfide-rich environment.
40206247|Bryozoans are among a diverse range of invertebrates capable of secreting calcium carbonate skeletons. Relatively little is known about biomineralization in bryozoans, despite the importance of understanding biomineralization processes for nanotechnology and the threats imposed by ocean acidification on organisms having calcareous skeletons. Ten species of cheilostome bryozoans that are reported to have bimineralic skeletons of calcite and aragonite are studied here using Raman spectroscopy. This technique allowed identification of the two mineral phases at submicron spatial resolution, allowing the distributions of calcite and aragonite within bryozoan skeletons to be determined with unprecedented precision. Confirming previous findings based on the use of chemical stains, most of the bimineralic species analyzed exhibited a calcitic skeletal framework, composed of basal, vertical, and inner frontal walls, having aragonite deposited subsequently onto the outer surfaces of the frontal walls. In one species (Odontionella cyclops), aragonite formed the superstructure above the autozooids, and in two others, traces of aragonite were detected on the undersides of the frontal shields. Using Raman spectroscopy, it was possible for the first time to determine the mineralogy of small-scale structures, including orificial rims, condyles and hinge teeth, avicularian pivotal bars and rostra, and ascopore rims and sieve plates. Even when surrounded by aragonitic frontal shields, these structures were found typically to be calcitic, the two exceptions being the aragonitic avicularia of Stylopoma inchoans and O. cyclops. Unexpectedly, the first-formed part of the basal wall at the distalmost growing edge of Pentaporafoliacea was found to consist mainly of aragonite. This may point to a precursory phase of biomineralization comparable with the unusual mineralogies identified previously in the earliest- formed skeletons of members of some other invertebrate phyla.
10.2307/3226865|One of the commonly assumed consequences of modularity is that senescence may be avoided, or at least delayed, at the level of the genet, with senescence frequently being expressed at the level of the individual module. Here we present evidence from a laboratory study of senescence at the zooid (= module) level in the bryozoan Electra pilosa. Post-larval ancestrulae of this species were collected intertidally in St Andrews Bay, SE Scotland, on the macroalga Fucus serratus, and reared under constant conditions in the laboratory. Polypides in this species undergo repeated cycles of regression and regeneration. Zooid senescence was indicated here by polypide life spans decreasing over successive polypide cycles, while the period required to regenerate new polypides increased over time. Senescence sensu stricto may have evolved either in a unitary ancestor of the Bryozoa, or in the phylum itself, but the proximal deterioration of physiological parameters at the zooid level might not constitute evolved senescence sensu stricto. Rather, it may result from selection for rapid distal colony growth, with a concomitant decrease in proximal zooid investment and provisioning.
3227201|Floscularia ringens is a cosmopolitan, sessile rotifer (class Monogononta) that lives inside a tube it constructs from numerous small, rounded pellets. Adults of F. ringens produce parthenogenetic eggs that are retained within the tube. Upon hatching, juveniles remain within the maternal tube for a short time completing their development before swimming away. The free-swimming juvenile has a conical body, short foot, small corona, and mastax with trophi, but appears unable to feed. After a short time (<1 day), the young rotifer attaches permanently to a substrate and its morphology changes radically: the corona develops 4 wide lobes and the foot elongates, becoming slender and retractable. Once the corona has developed, the young animal begins to feed by producing filtering currents, and also starts to build its own tube. Here we report 4 new morphological details regarding this species. (1) A specialized epidermal groove is present on the trunk in front of the cloaca. (2) A small hole is located in the center of the inner surface of each pellet of the tube. (3) The muscles inside the foot are U-shaped in transverse section. (4) The size of the trophi remains unchanged during growth of the juvenile into an adult.
10.2307/3226963|The ultrastructure of spermiogenesis and sperm in four species of Amphiglena is described: A. lindae, A. mediterranea, A. nathae, and A. pacifica. All are simultaneous hermaphrodites with oocytes and developing sperm present in abdominal chaetigers. Spermiogenesis occurs in large, synchronously developing masses connected to a cytophore in all four species, and is similar to that previously described for A. terebro. Sperm have an elongate nucleus and long midpiece. The acrosome and nucleus spiral around each other at the tip of the sperm. There are clear differences between the species in the structure of the mature sperm. The spermathecae of A. terebro are sac-like structures, with a simpler morphology than those found in other Amphiglena spp. The spermathecae of A. pacifica are like those of A. lindae, A. mediterranea, and A. nathae in being narrow, convoluted ducts. Based on previously published analyses, the elongate sperm heads and presence of spermathecae found in Amphiglena appear to have evolved independently from the similar condition seen in plesiomorphic sabellins such as Amphicorina. Further information on other apomorphic sabellins that brood larvae, such as Potamilla, is required to determine if the unusual sperm morphology and spermathecae in Amphiglena represent synapomorphies for members of the genus.
41408396|The genome of the non-blood-feeding glossiphoniid leech Helobdella robusta was screened for leech antiplatelet protein (LAPP), an anticoagulant that specifically inhibits collagen-stimulated platelet aggregation. Previously identified LAPP sequences from Haementeria officinalis were used as queries against the predicted genes in the genome, employing a variety of BLAST protocols. Matches were reciprocally BLASTed against GenBank databases as a cross-validation of the predicted annotations of the genes. A total of eight loci, positioned as a tandem array, were recovered with significantly low e-values; these showed high sequence similarity (32.49% average sequence similarity of shared amino acid positions) to the known anticoagulants. Moreover, six of these possessed a predicted signal-peptide toward the N-terminus, indicating their secretion by the leech. All eight loci, together with known LAPP sequences from Ha. officinalis, as well as several sequences from publicly available expressed sequence tag libraries of Ha. depressa and He. robusta, were aligned and subjected to phylogenetic analysis. The resulting tree showed a monophyletic clade consisting of the He. robusta loci, which was sister to a clade comprised of Haementeria derived sequences. To corroborate the evolution of the anticoagulants with the evolution of leeches more generally, the topology of the LAPP-tree was compared to that of a previously published leech phylogeny; these showed compatible topologies with respect to the included genera. These results corroborate recent phylogenetic work, which suggests that this non-blood-feeding leech has a hematophagous ancestry.
3227092|In the clam shrimp Eulimnadia texana and some other species of desert ephemeral pool-dwelling branchiopod crustaceans, males coexist with hermaphrodites. The hermaphrodites can mate with males or can fertilize their own eggs but cannot mate with other hermaphrodites. Understanding the evolutionary dynamics of this mixed mating system, known as androdioecy, requires a basic knowledge of the reproductive behavior of this species. Here we describe the reproductive cycle of hermaphrodites when isolated and when in the presence of a male. Videos were analyzed to provide a description of egg movement from the ovotestes to the brood chamber. Through time-lapse photography, we determined that paired hermaphrodites carried their brood longer and swam fast for a greater duration than did isolated hermaphrodites. Isolated hermaphrodites dug more preliminary burrows before burying their clutch and had longer inter-clutch intervals than did paired hermaphrodites. These observations suggest that hermaphrodites may behave in ways that maximize the likelihood of mating, and that males may interfere with hermaphrodites during egg laying.
3227109|The digestion of food plaquettes in the ciliated protozoan Hyalophysa chattoni was analyzed by light and electron microscopy. Through the use of nigrosin as a tracer for light microscopy and polystyrene microparticles for electron microscopy, we have demonstrated that food plaquettes transform to late-stage digestive vesicles. Eventually, in the phoront, some of the late-stage vesicles merge to form larger fusion vesicles, which are retained in the peripheral cytoplasm of the ensuing feeding stage. After the feeding stage settles and encysts, these vesicles are either retained by the daughter cells or are left in the divisional cyst as residual bodies. Food plaquettes, digestive vesicles, and fusion vesicles stain positively with neutral red and acridine orange, indicating an acidic pH. These results portray a unique digestive pathway in which stored, undigested material is reorganized into larger fusion vesicles as the cell prepares for additional feeding.
10.2307/3226891|The trophi of rotifers resemble the sclerotized jaws of gnathostomulids, but whether trophi are homologous to gnathostomulid jaws, and consequently show phylogenetic relationship between Gnathostomulida and Rotifera, has been unclear. We have found that the trophi of a rotifer in the genus Seison, which is ranked close to the ancestral stock of rotifers, have an ultrastructural feature similar to that reported in the literature for jaws of both scleroperalian and filospermoidean gnathostomulids, as well as for trophi in the more derived bdelloid rotifer genus Philodina. Specifically, these trophi and jaws have arrays of tube-like support rods composed of lucent material surrounding a dense core. Jaw-like structures in other small vermiform animals (certain polychaetes and molluscs) lack this special feature. We propose that jaw substructure shows a homology, and thus a sister-group relationship, between Gnathostomulida and the clade containing Rotifera plus Acanthocephala.
3227217|The morphology of Astrobrachion constrictum, a representative of the little known Euryalida, was examined by light and electron microscopy. The tegument is smooth and lacks calcified elements. Many features of A. constrictum were found to conform to the usual pattern of ophiuroid anatomy. The skeletal elements are generally composed of uniform labyrinthic stereom. The radial shields, however, consist of overlapping stereom plates. The 5 oral shields serve as madreporites, each with a U-shaped canal leading into an axial sinus. A 3-lobed axial organ is associated with each madreporite and may play some sensory or secretory role.
10.2307/3226848|Investigations of the early intramolluscan development of Echinostoma paraensei in juvenile M-line snails, Biomphalaria glabrata, have revealed the presence of a previously uncharacterized stage, a morphologically and behaviorally specialized mother redia, here termed the precocious mother redia (PMR). The PMR, which is produced in a sporocyst attached to the inner surface of the host's ventricle, develops before other mother rediae and is released as early as 6 days post-exposure (DPE). Unlike all other mother rediae later produced by the sporocyst, it attaches to the ventricle wall adjacent to the sporocyst and remains there for at least 31 days. It develops a long, sinuous body and a pharynx approximately twice as large as that of any other mother or daughter redia present. Developing rapidly, the PMR releases daughter rediae at 10 DPE, about 2 days before other mother rediae. When snails containing a single intraventricular sporocyst were challenged by exposure to additional miracidia, fewer challenge sporocysts were observed subsequently in the ventricle than in control snails; this effect was greater if the PMR of the original infection had emerged and was present in the ventricle. The proportion of challenge sporocysts that reached the ventricle but then subsequently disappeared or failed to develop also increased significantly in snails in which a PMR was present. These results suggest that the PMR is specialized to protect the sporocyst and that it is capable of adversely affecting the development of challenge sporocysts. This mode of development was not observed in two other echinostome species (Echinostoma liei and E. trivolvis) examined.
3227209|Pieces of coral rubble (Porites porites), collected from across 3 fringing reefs that lie along a eutrophication gradient, were examined for the presence of clionid sponges. A similarity analysis of species composition showed that reef zone had less effect on clionid community composition than did other factors affecting the reefs as a whole. Exceot on the back reef, the zones, distances, and depths within the reefs had no significant influence on the number of clionid invasions. Reef comparisons demonstrated that clionid abundance increased with increasing eutrophication. Clionids were found in 41% of the pieces collected from the most eutrophic site vs. 24% from the least eutrophic. Because clionids are the principal bioeroders of coral reefs, any increase in their abundance will likely result in greater biorates. The mean abundance of Type 3 corals (in which fragmentation is the primary mode of propagation) is positively related to the frequency of boring sponge invasion, suggesting that increased bioerosion may be partly responsible for community shifts toward Type 3 corals in polluted waters. Cliona cf. vastifica, found for the first time in Barbados, flourishes on the most eutrophic reef and may become an important bioeroder under the highly eutrophic conditions that have begun to plague West Indian reefs. Two new species of Cliona (Porifera: Hadromerida: Clionidae) are described.
3227082|Large knots (>100 individuals) of adult horsehair worms (Gordius difficilis) were collected in several spring-fed habitats in Wisconsin and Minnesota. These aggregations were dominated numerically by males. Although distributions of length and diameter of males and females overlapped, females tended to be significantly longer and wider than males. Moreover, at any given length, females were wider than males. These findings confirm and add statistical support to previously published reports.
10.2307/3226877|Two new species of marine interstitial arthrotardigrades, both members of a new genus, are described from Anahola Bay, Kauai, Hawaiian Islands. Dipodarctus n. gen. is characterized by long primary clavae situated ventral to short lateral cephalic cirri; small ovoid leg IV papillae with short terminal spines; and unequal toe-length patterns on feet I-III as compared to foot IV. Toes on foot IV are of Tanarctus-type with long medial toes, while feet I-III possess at least 3 equal, short toes. Dipodarctus borrori n. sp. has stubby, 2-piece cephalic cirri; an unusual protrusible mouth cone; and outermost toe on feet I-III twice the length of remaining toes on these feet. Dipodarctus anaholiensis n. sp. has long, tapering cephalic cirri; all toes on feet I-III equal; and coarsely punctate cuticle. Dipodarctinae is erected as a new subfamily within the Halechiniscidae to include these animals. Unifying features of the subfamily include ventrally set primary clavae; short sensory papilla on leg IV; feet of legs I-III differing from foot of leg IV. Character-state polarities among the members of the subfamilies of Halechiniscidae are used to construct a cladogram in which two basic groups are distinguished primarily on the basis of toe-length patterns, claw features, and the shape of cephalic appendages.
4124904| Stirpulina ramosa is the only extant endobenthic representative of the Clavagellidae and is restricted to the waters of Japan. A single intact adventitious tube of this species has been obtained and its structure is described. The right valve is 16 mm long and located within the adventitious tube. It has an opisthodetic ligament located on resilifers. There are anterior and posterior adductor muscle scars, a thick pallial line, and pallial and pedal gape (right valve only) sinuses. The left shell valve is but 9 mm long and is united into the fabric of the adventitious tube via the intermediary of a shelly saddle. Internally, only the anterior adductor muscle scar and a small element of the pallial line scar are identifiable on the left valve. The posterior adductor and the rest of the pallial line scar (including a pallial sinus) are, remarkably, located on the adventitious tube beyond the shell valve margin. The adventitious tube of S. ramosa is formed in a manner wholly dissimilar from that of Brechites vaginiferus (Penicillidae). In B. vaginiferus, the tube is secreted as a single entity from the general outer mantle surface, including the siphons, covering the body. As a consequence, both shell valves are incorporated into the structure of the tube and the watering pot is bilaterally symmetrical. In S. ramosa, the tube and watering pot are secreted from the mantle margin and surface surrounding and extending from the left shell valve, so that only the left valve is incorporated into its structure. A dorsally derived mantle element is progressively extended over to the right side of the body, meeting a ventrally derived counterpart that passes beneath it, forming a pleat in the calcareous structure of the right side of the tube that they secrete. This pleat extends into the complex of watering-pot tubules and forms the pedal gape. The watering pot is thus  shaped. The ventrally derived mantle element forms a sinusoidal crest on the right-hand base of the watering pot, creating a pedal gape sinus scar on the right valve. The Clavagellidae radiated widely in the Mesozoic, leaving behind a rich fossil record for Stirpulina. Only S. ramosa, however, has survived until the present. In contrast, the Cenozoic Penicillidae has a poor fossil record, but there is a rich variety of extant endobenthic watering-pot shells. It has been argued hitherto that the two families represent a remarkable example of convergent evolution. In view of the success of the Penicillidae and thus the endobenthic, tube-dwelling lifestyle, however, it is hard to understand why Stirpulina has largely died out-even S. ramosa being known by but one or two specimens. A study of the anatomy of S. ramosa might one day answer this question. 
40206223|Planned conservation efforts for tree snails of the endangered genus Achatinella, endemic to the island of O'ahu, Hawai'i, will include translocations among the remaining wild and captive-bred populations. In order to establish optimal levels of artificial migration among neighboring groups of snails within fragmented populations, efforts to determine natural dispersal rates through direct observation were initiated. Capture-mark-recapture (CMR) efforts have proved inadequate for obtaining the requisite dispersal estimates, due to low recapture probabilities. In addition, snail dispersal beyond the boundaries of a finite CMR study site was indistinguishable from mortality. In the preliminary study reported here, both the low recapture probability and dispersal detection problems of past CMR efforts were addressed by using harmonic radar tracking. This approach yielded rough dispersal estimates that were unattainable using CMR alone by providing 100% recapture rates even beyond the normal survey area boundaries. Extensive snail movements within clusters of connected trees were frequently observed after tracking for merely a few hours, although movements between unconnected trees were rare and recorded only after monthly survey intervals. Just 11 out of 40 tracked snails made between-tree movements (average distance of 4.941.52 m) during the entire 7-month study, and provided the only data utilizable for inferring gene flow in and out of subpopulations. Meteorological data loggers were deployed when tracking began to look for an association between such snail movement and weather fluctuations. The resultant data indicate that increases in both wind gusts and humidity facilitate dispersal (R = 0.77, p-value < 0.001), and that passive wind dispersal alone may be responsible for many snail movements (R = 0.59, p-value = 0.0014). Despite having provided coarse estimates of short-term dispersal and corresponding wind influences, the limitations of the radar method can be substantial.
10.2307/3227030|Cystophorous cercariae of Halipegus occidualis perforate the gut wall of feeding microcrustaceans via the explosive expulsion of a delivery tube from the cercariocyst, resulting in the transfer of the body of the cercaria into the hemocoel of the second intermediate host. The hypothesis that this discharge is associated with osmotic changes within the cercariocyst was tested. Increasing the osmolarity of the solution bathing the cercariocysts inhibited normal excystment. However, ~80% of cercariocysts subsequently placed in distilled water excysted normally. Excystment was sufficiently slowed in 0.25 Osm solutions to reveal at least two separate stages of the process. First, water drawn into the space between the inner and outer cyst walls upon release of the cercariocyst from the snail host creates sufficient turgor pressure to evert the delivery tube when the integrity of the caudal appendage is breached. Second, asymmetric osmotic influx of water into the cercaria forces the swelling body through the delivery tube. Contrary to earlier reports, the delivery tube is everted through the caudal appendage of the cercariocyst, and bears no spine at its tip. The fact that the infection mechanism is osmotically driven has both physiological and evolutionary implications in fresh-water hemiurids, whose origin is thought to be the marine environment.
23016669|Blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) prey on hooked mussels (Ischadium recurvum) growing epizoically on oyster clumps in estuaries along the Louisiana coast. In prey size-selection experiments, blue crabs preferred small mussels (<30-mm shell length) to larger mussels, possibly because handling time increased with mussel size. When crabs were given a choice of solitary mussels versus mussels in clumps on oysters in the laboratory, mortality was lower by 86% in clumped mussels. However, no size selection by crabs occurred with mussels in clumps, likely because smaller mussels escaped predation in crevices between larger mussels or oysters. When individuals of two size classes of mussels were exposed to water containing the scent of crabs and of mussels consumed by blue crabs, an increase in byssal thread production was induced in all mussels, but byssal thread production rate was higher for small mussels than for large mussels. We conclude that increased predation risk for small mussels has resulted in higher size-specific production of byssal threads, and that predator-induced production of byssal threads, which may increase clumping behavior, may reduce their risk of mortality to predatory blue crabs.
40206199|Medusae were the earliest animals to evolve muscle-powered swimming in the seas. Although medusae have achieved diverse and prominent ecological roles throughout the world's oceans, we argue that the primitive organization of cnidarian muscle tissue limits force production and, hence, the mechanical alternatives for swimming bell function. We use a recently developed model comparing the potential force production with the hydrodynamic requirements of jet propulsion, and conclude that jet production is possible only at relatively small bell diameters. In contrast, production of a more complex wake via what we term rowing propulsion permits much larger sizes but requires a different suite of morphological features. Analysis of morphometric data from all medusan taxa independently confirms size-dependent patterns of bell forms that correspond with model predictions. Further, morphospace analysis indicates that various lineages within the Medusozoa have proceeded along either of two evolutionary trajectories. The first alternative involved restriction of jet-propelled medusan bell diameters to small dimensions. These medusae may be either solitary individuals (characteristic of Anthomedusae and Trachymedusae) or aggregates of small individual medusan units into larger colonial forms (characteristic of the nectophores of many members of the Siphonophorae). The second trajectory involved use of rowing propulsion (characteristic of Scyphozoa and some hydromedusan lineages such as the Leptomedusae and Narcomedusae) that allows much larger bell sizes. Convergence on either of the differing propulsive alternatives within the Medusozoa has emerged via parallel evolution among different medusan lineages. The distinctions between propulsive modes have important ecological ramifications because swimming and foraging are interdependent activities for medusae. Rowing swimmers are characteristically cruising predators that select different prey types from those selected by jet-propelled medusae, which are predominantly ambush predators. These relationships indicate that the different biomechanical solutions to constraints on bell function have entailed ecological consequences that are evident in the prey selection patterns and trophic impacts of contemporary medusan lineages.
3701473|Lateral flagella of the antennules of scyllarid lobsters were examined for setal morphology and distribution via scanning electron microscopy. Setal distribution patterns were mapped directly for 3 regions of the antennule (base, tuft, and tip) and analyzed for differences: (1) between left and right antennules, (2) between males and females within a species, and (3) among species by comparing counts of setae per annulus in the ventral tuft region only. Six types of antennular setae were identified based on their external morphology: aesthetascs, simple, modified simple, asymmetric, hemi-plumose, and toothbrush setae. These different types were organized in a clear pattern over the ventral and dorsal surfaces of the lateral flagella of the antennule. Aesthetasc, asymmetric, modified simple, and hemi-plumose setae were found only on annuli in the tuft region between the distal and proximal ends of the flagellum. Simple setae were found on all annuli of all regions of the antennule, and toothbrush setae were mainly concentrated on all annuli of the base region and on proximal annuli of the tuft region. All species of scyllarids examined had the same general pattern of setal distribution and no differences were found between left and right, or male and female antennules. Similar setae located on the lateral antennules of species from the families Nephrophidae and Palinuridae (clawed and spiny lobsters) have been previously described as chemo- and/or mechanoreceptive for use in distance chemoreception (i.e., detection and orientation to olfactory stimuli). Based on work on clawed and spiny lobsters, we predict that the aesthetascs on slipper lobsters have a chemoreceptive function and that simple and toothbrush setae may have a bimodal chemo- and mechanoreceptive function.
40206187|The ultrastructure of the tegument in Paraechinophallus japonicus (Bothriocephalidea: Echinophallidae), a cestode parasite of the bathypelagic fish Psenopsis anomala, was studied using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Paraechinophallus japonicus lacks a true scolex. Four different types of microtriches have been observed on the tegumental surface of P. japonicus. Capilliform (~2.3-m long) and blade-like spiniform (~1.4-m long) microtriches are intermingled on the surface of the pseudoscolex. Capilliform microtriches are distinct in possessing a short base and a long electron-lucent cap. The strobila is covered with two types of microtriches, namely filiform (~2.1-m long) and tusk-shaped microtriches (4.5-m long). Tusk-shaped microtriches are limited to the posterior border of each proglottid and are characterized by a short and narrow base, and a large and wide, sharply pointed, electron-dense cap. Similar tusk-shaped microtriches were previously found in members of the family Echinophallidae and may represent an autapomorphy of echinophallid cestodes, all of them being parasitic in centrolophid fish. A unified terminology of microthrix parts is proposed.
41408392|Rhogocytes are morphologically distinct cells distributed throughout connective tissues of crustaceans and molluscs. Using light microscopy, rhogocytes of the vetigastropod Megathura crenulata were identified by their ovoid shape, and their cytoplasm filled with spherical inclusions which contained lysosomal enzymes, based on uptake of neutral red and staining with LysoTracker dye. Rhogocytes were most abundant in the digestive gland (2,824 rhogocytes/mm), followed by the connective tissue layer surrounding the middle and posterior esophagus and intestine (1,431 rhogocytes/mm, 872 rhogocytes/mm, and 1,190 rhogocytes/mm, respectively), and were lowest in abundance in the foot (154 rhogocytes/mm). At the transmission electron microscopy level, characteristic features of rhogocytes were inclusions showing a variety of electron densities, abundant vesicles, and rough endoplasmic reticulum in the cytoplasm, and regions of plasma membrane folded to produce slits connected by thin diaphragms. Although several functions have been proposed for gastropod rhogocytes, much attention has been focused on their possible role in the synthesis of the respiratory pigment hemocyanin. In M. crenulata, this molecule exists in several isoforms called keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). One isoform, KLH1, is a large didecamer and has been used extensively in studies on vertebrate immunology and cancer therapy. We present four lines of evidence indicating rhogocytes in M. crenulata synthesize KLH1. First, at the transmission electron microscopy level, dilated cisternae of RER containing material similar in size and shape to KLH were observed in rhogocytes examined throughout the year. Second, KLH1 mRNA was identified exclusively in tissue samples that contained rhogocytes; no mRNA for KLH1 was identified in samples containing only hemocytes. Third, immunoperoxidase staining with antibodies specific to KLH was localized only to rhogocytes. Fourth, in situ hybridization with a probe specific for M. crenulata KLH1 demonstrated KLH 1-specific mRNA was present only in rhogocytes. Identification of the cells responsible for the synthesis of KLH is important because of the clinical significance of this molecule.
3227158| The largest extant species of the adventitious tube-building Clavagelloidea has hitherto been placed in the genus Foegia (itself formerly a subgenus of Brechites), the type species of which is the Western Australian F. novaezelandiae (Bruguire 1792). Following examinations of and comparison with F. novaezelandiae and the southern Australian F. veitchi, the latter is herein placed in its own new genus Kendrickiana. Individuals of both F. novaezelandiae and K. veitchi are essentially amyarian in terms of adductor and pedal retractor muscles, but in the latter species the connection to the adventitious tube is located dorsally by an unique horseshoe-shaped array of muscular papillae, which are inserted into holes in the tube. K. veitchi is different from other clavagelloids too in that the siphons are capable of only limited retraction into the tube. Their extension in K. veitchi is almost exclusively by hydraulic means because the complex internal siphonal muscles seen in other species of the Clavagelloidea, and which act antagonistically with extensive blood-filled haemocoels, are vestigial. Kendrickiana can also be separated from Foegia in other anatomical respects. For example, members of the former have paired anterior suspensory muscles, and vestigial posterior pedal retractor muscles with pericardial proprioreceptors associated with them (as in Humphreyia and Dianadema), whereas the latter does not. Similarly, in Foegia there is a muscularized pedal disc, not found in Kendrickiana. Members of F. novaezelandiae are inhabitants of intertidal hypoxic muds, whereas those of K. veitchi apparently live exclusively in subtidal sea grass beds. 
3701482|Stimuli associated with copulatory behavior are often needed to maximize reproductive output in internally fertilized sexual taxa. Although non-pseudogamous parthenogenetic females have no need for sperm, parthenogens descended from sexual ancestors may still require copulatory stimuli to reach their full reproductive potential. Retention of physiological dependence on copulation in parthenogens could facilitate the maintenance of sexual reproduction in species where sexual and parthenogenetic individuals coexist if parthenogens do not receive enough copulatory stimuli to achieve maximal daughter production. A laboratory experiment was conducted to determine whether embryo production in parthenogenetic female snails (Potamopyrgus antipodarum) is dependent on male presence. Rather than male presence, this experiment showed that embryo production is affected by the number of coexisting parthenogens. Specifically, parthenogens housed with fewer other parthenogens produced significantly more embryos than parthenogens housed with a greater number of other parthenogens, regardless of male presence and total population size. This result indicates that copulatory dependence is not likely to contribute to the maintenance of sex in P. antipodarum. Instead, it demonstrates that females of P. antipodarum negatively affect each other's reproduction, and suggests that females of P. antipodarum may exert a larger competitive influence than males of P. antipodarum. Moreover, this finding raises the possibility that highly parthenogenetic and consequently female-dense populations of P. antipodarum may experience decreased reproductive output when population size is large and resources are limiting.
3701451| Recent reports of occasional males in Austrian populations of Triops cancriformis have promoted interest in an analysis of the ultrastructure of the male gonad. It appears as a double thick and well-defined tubular structure running along the midgut, inside the hemocoel. It is composed of two portions: the wall and the lumen. The former is made up of germ cells that are widespread and intermixed with somatic cells. The lumen is ~200 m wide and acts as the collecting site of spermatids and sperm. The germ cells are recognizable by their rounded appearance and by the occurrence of exceptionally long synaptonemal complexes in their nuclei. Their maturation implies a volume elongation and an aggregation in a characteristic "cyst" arrangement. The cysts migrate towards the lumen, where they break open, releasing spermatids and sperm. At the end of this process the lumen is filled with maturing gametes. The sperm have very condensed chromatin nuclei and partially reduced cytoplasm where the most striking features are the axoneme and strewn microtubules together with evident pseudopodia. Our morphological data support the full functionality of males in T. cancriformis. However, further work on gametogenesis, distribution of sexes, and genetic analysis of breeding experiments are needed to reach a fuller understanding of the role of males in middle and northern European populations of this species. 
40663868|The ultrastructure of the male reproductive system in the polyclad flatworm Pleioplana atomata is described. Numerous testes are scattered throughout the entire body but are heavily concentrated on the ventral side. All stages of differentiating sperm cells are present in all testes follicles. Intercellular bridges connect spermatocytes and spermatids derived from a single spermatogonium. In the distal part of spermatids, a zone of differentiation develops with a row of microtubules beneath the plasmalemma. Adjacent to these microtubules, an intercentriolar body is flanked by two basal bodies that give rise to two axonemes (each with a 9+"1" microtubular pattern) that face in opposite directions. The Golgi complex appears in the central portion of the spermatid and produces numerous small and large electron-dense bodies. The small bodies surround the nucleus, whereas the large bodies cluster along with the mitochondria in the central part of the spermatid. Development of the spermatid leads to cell elongation and formation of a filiform, biflagellate mature spermatozoon with cortical microtubules all along the sperm shaft. The male canal system consists of paired vasa deferentia that separately enter a single seminal vesicle. A single prostatic canal connects the seminal vesicle to the prostatic vesicle. Ultrastructurally, the seminal vesicle and prostatic canal are very similar, and along with the prostatic vesicle and stylet pocket, are lined by a ciliated epithelium. The ultrastructure of the prostatic vesicle indicates that it probably produces a large volume of seminal fluid that, along with spermatozoa, is transferred to the mating partner through a stylet. Some of the findings, particularly on sperm ultrastructure, may provide characters useful for phylogenetic analysis.
3227110|In this review, we seek to develop new insights about the nature of algal-sea anemone symbioses by comparing such associations in temperate and tropical seas. Temperate seas undergo pronounced seasonal cycles in irradiance, temperature, and nutrients, while high irradiance, high temperature, and low nutrients are seasonally far less variable in tropical seas. We compare the nature of symbiosis between sea anemones ( = actinians) and zooxanthellae (Symbiodinium spp.) in both regions to test tropical paradigms against temperate examples and to identify directions for future research. Although fewer anemone species are symbiotic in temperate regions, they are locally dominant and ecologically important members of the benthic community compared to the tropics. Zooxanthella densities tend to be lower in temperate anemones, but data are limited to a few species in both temperate and tropical seas. Zooxanthella densities are far more stable over time in temperate anemones than in tropical anemones, suggesting that temperate symbioses are more resistant to fluctuations in environmental parameters such as irradiance and temperature. Light-saturated photosynthetic rates of temperate and tropical zooxanthellae are similar, but temperate anemone hosts receive severely reduced carbon supplies from zooxanthellae during winter months when light is reduced. Symbiont transmission modes and specificity do not show any trends among anemones in tropical vs. temperate seas. Our review indicates the need for the following: (1) Investigations of other temperate and tropical symbiotic anemone species to assess the generality of trends seen in a few "model" anemones. (2) Attention to the field ecology of temperate and tropical algal-anemone symbioses, for example, how symbioses function under seasonally variable environmental factors and how zooxanthallae persist at high densities in darkness and winter. The greater stability of zooxanthella populations in temperate hosts may be useful to understanding tropical symbioses in which bleaching (loss of zooxanthellae) is of major concern. (3) Study of the evolutionary history of symbiosis in both temperate and tropical seas. Continued exploration of the phylogenetic relationships between host anemones and zooxanthella strains may show how and why zooxanthellae differ in anemone hosts in both environments.
3701490|The female atrial system of members of the Polycystididae has been studied at the light microscopical level and compared among the constituent taxa. Based on the criteria of position and conjunction, hypotheses of homology are put forward and compared with the assessments of homology found in earlier literature. Contradictory terminology is synonymized and adapted to fit new findings that recognize homology among structures in different taxa. Based on differences in position and structure, 2 types of female duct are recognized: female duct type I and female duct type II. The term "female bursa" is restricted to a sperm resorbing organ at the proximal end of the female duct type I and/or at the end of a common oviduct. Some species have bundles of glands at the place where the oviduct(s) enter the female duct type I, which are considered homologous among these species. Different types of seminal receptacles are recognized. The term "insemination duct" is restricted to the ducts which in some species, in addition to the oviducts, connect the ovaries with the female duct type I. A single muscular duct, the common oviduct, connects the joined oviducts with the female duct type I in species of Duplacrorhynchus and is considered homologous with the similar duct present in some other species. A uterus is always present, entering the common genital atrium through its frontal wall, or entering a female duct type II. This morphological review of the female atrial system reveals a mosaic distribution of characters if applied to previous phylogenies that are based primarily on the male reproductive system.
10.2307/3226888| The ultrastructure of the sperm and some stages of spermiogenesis are described for Paralvinella pandorae, an alvinellid polychaete known only from deep-sea hydrothermal vents of the northeastern Pacific. In males of this species, groups of spermatocytes and spermatids attached to central cytophores develop in the coelom. As the nuclear material condenses, the nucleus and the spermatid itself elongate. Numerous electron-opaque bodies are formed in the cytoplasm, apparently as Golgi derivatives; these bodies amalgamate to form a large convoluted structure in the midpiece of the sperm. The elongate sperm (head length up to 17 m) are stored in the nephridia of males. The anterior pole of the sperm is a long, thin apical extension of the cell filled with glycogen-like granules, and the nucleus measures 6.0-7.5 m in length. In the midpiece, several mitochondria are found anterior and posterior to the large convoluted structure, which may represent the aerosome. The flagellum emerges at an acute angle posterior to the mitochondria and convoluted structure, indicating limited motility of the sperm. Based on the unusual sperm morphology of P. pandorae, sperm are probably transferred to females as bundles of mature ent-aquasperm, with fertilization taking place in the female's tube or in a gelatinous mass outside the tube. 
10.2307/3227059|In the antarctic ostracode Acetabulastoma sp., a singular type of muscle cell has tentatively been classified as transversely striated with continuous Z-line, interrupted by tubules of sarcoplasmic reticulum. We investigated the presence and distribution of different regulatory, contractile, and structural proteins in this muscle by electron microscopical immunocytochemistry. Troponin, caldesmon, and calponin are three proteins suitable to identify muscle cell types that do not show the classical ultrastructural patterns expected of striated or smooth muscles. Reaction to troponin T was positive (the protein was located along the thin filaments), but no immunoreaction was observed to caldesmon and calponin. Thus, the muscle clearly belongs to the striated class. The contractile proteins myosin, paramyosin, and miniparamyosin were located along the thick filaments. Paramyosin and miniparamyosin are known only from invertebrate thick filaments and have no known vertebrate homolog. A nebulin-like protein was found and, as in vertebrates, may be involved in regulating sarcomere length. Instead of the giant protein titin, known from vertebrate striated muscle, minititin, a protein of the same family but lower molecular weight, was developed. The presence and distribution of proteins such as myosin, troponin, and nebulin as well as the absence of caldesmon and calponin suggest that despite its small size and parasitic life style, Acetabulastoma sp. is an active invertebrate quite unlike those in which the contractile proteins were found to be discontinuously distributed or concentrated at the tips of the thick filaments.
3701446|Although peptides similar to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) peptides have been reported in various taxa of invertebrates, no such evidence has yet been identified for platyhelminths. Antibodies raised against mammalian GnRH were used to investigate the distribution of GnRH immunoreactivity in specimens of the triclad turbellarian Bdelloura candida (Maricola, Bdellouridae). While no GnRH immunoreactivity was detected in the brain and nerve cords, both the putative subepidermal and submuscular nerve plexuses appeared to be immunoreactive. GnRH immunoreactivity was also present in epidermal mucous cells, in parenchymal cells, including cells surrounding the branches of the intestine, in putative neuroendocrine cells associated with the testes, and in the vitellogenic gland cells associated with the oviduct. These observations suggest that the GnRH-like material found in specimens of B. candida may be involved in a variety of functions, including a possible pheromone-like role for mucous cells and the control of specific reproductive activities.
3227186| Polyps of the tropical corallimorpharian Rhodactis rhodostoma segregate sexes between center and edge positions within aggregations produced by clonal replication. On a reef flat at Eilat, northern Red Sea, infertile polyps and males occur mainly along the edges of clonal aggregations, while females mostly occupy central positions within each aggregation. In addition, on the inner to middle reef flat where polyps of this species are abundant, aggregations consist mostly of females. On the outer reef flat, where polyps are rare, a sampled aggregation consisted mostly of males and infertile polyps. Male polyps are significantly smaller than females, and the smallest polyps are infertile. Fecundity increases significantly with polyp size in females, but testis size and number do not vary with body size in males. Oocytes are present in polyps during most of the year and gradually increase in size until annual spawning in June-July during the period of maximum day length. Testes do not vary significantly in size during the year and remain a small proportion of body mass (<8%). In contrast, females invest up to 30% of their body mass into gonads during the months immediately before spawning. The annual spawning of gametes coincides with a temporary drop in the frequency of clonal replication by polyps. We estimate that each female polyp of R. rhodostoma may release up to 3000 large eggs (500 m in maximum diameter) each summer. The high investment of this corallimorpharian in sexual production of planktonic propagules may allow rapid dispersal to reef habitats distant from parent populations. 
40663844|The formation of the central nervous system of the stomatopod crustacean Gonodactylaceus falcatus is described by means of antibody stainings against synapsin and a-tubulin. It is shown that the longitudinal fiber tracts of the ventral nervous system are formed by two centers of origin comprising a number of pioneer neurons, one at the posterior part of the forming brain, the other in the area of the telson anlge at the posteriormost region of the embryo. In addition to the lateral anlagen of the connectives, a median longitudinal nerve is formed beginning in the mandibular segment neuromere. In contrast to those of other segments, the mandibular ganglia are connected by a single commissure. The brain forms a circumoral ring. There is evidence that the deutocerebrum possesses praestomodeal and poststomodeal commissural fibers. The anlge of the nauplius eye reveals a specific pattern of pigment and sensory cells with the two pigment cells expressing synapsin. Clear differences between the expression patterns of synapsin and a-tubulin recommend the combination of a variety of antibodies to gain a complete picture of embryonic neuroanatomy. Our results show overall similarities to other malacostracan and non-malacostracan crustaceans. The comparisons with other crustaceans and arthropods indicate homology of crustacean nauplius eyes, a circumoral deutocerebrum, and a more widespread occurrence of posterior pioneer neurons forming the axon scaffold of the ventral central nervous system than previously thought.
3227270| In this work we investigated the involvement of putative nitric oxide (NO)-forming neurons in enteric plexuses of stylommatophoran gastropods. The nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-containing cells were detected by NADPH diaphorase (NADPHd) histochemistry in the entreral nervous systems of several stylommatophoran species (Achatinacea: Achatina fulica, Helicacea: Cepaea hortensis, Cepaea nemoralis, Discus rotundatus, Helicella obvia, Helix lucorum, Helix lutescens, Monachoides umbrosa, Trichia hispida, Zebrina detrita, Succineacea: Succinea putris, Vertiliginacea: Clausilia dubia, Zonitacea: Arion ater, Arion subfuscus, Limax maximus). We detected the NO synthesis of isolated midintestinal segments by Griess's quantification of nitrite, one end product of NO. Effects of the NOS substrate L-arginine and the NOS inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine (NOARG) were also tested on nitrite production. We found NADPHd-reactive neurons and extrinsic nerves with NADPHd-stained fibers within the myenteric and submucosal networks of the midintestine of investigated members of Helicacea, Succineacea, and Vertiliginacea families. These networks innervated the midintestinal musculature and several nerve cells of the myenteric and submucosal plexi. In investigated members of Achatinacea and Zonitacea, NADPHd-stained networks were not detectable within the digestive tract. Administration of 1 mM L-arginine elevated, whereas 2 mM of NOARG diminished, the nitrite levels of the NADPHd-stained networks containing midintestine in C. nemoralis and H. lucorum. Enteral NADPHd staining was not detected in A. ater and L. maximus, and the nitrite production was not affected by L-arginine. Our results indicate a possible, but evolutionarily not conserved, NO-mediated enteral transmission in stylommatophoran gastropods. 
10.2307/3227039|The insoluble organic matrix fraction from the spicules of the gorgonian Leptogorgia virgulata cycles annually. That is, in the summer, this fraction is predominantly collagenous while in the winter, collagen is largely absent. The mechanisms by which cycling occurs have been examined. It appears that spicules become etched and breaches form, probably via acidification and subsequent decalcification. Acidification at the periphery of winter spicules, and presumably subsequent decalcification, has been verified using acridine orange. The internal organic matrix now becomes exposed to the hydrolytic action of such enzymes as acid phosphatase, which is secreted by secondary sclerocytes and scleroblasts. The digestive enzyme acid phosphatase has been localized throughout the year. In the winter, when the collagen content of spicules is lowest, there was strong labeling for acid phosphatase at the periphery of the spicules, suggesting that the enzyme may be involved in the removal of at least some portion of the organic matrix at this season. The level of enzyme activity in the polyps, heaviest in the fall and variable during the rest of the year, probably reflects seasonal changes in the productivity of the coastal waters in which the gorgonians live. Labeling for acid phosphatase was also strong in the winter in the cortical region of the axis. The enzyme may be digesting collagen that was transported to the axis. Labeling for acid phosphatase in the secondary sclerocytes was at a moderate level throughout the year.
10.2307/3226902|As the teeth of sand dollars are chipped and abraded during use, they are continuously renewed by growth in the plumule. During biting, the teeth are secured in place and held immobile by mutable collagenous dental ligaments, which react the axial forces upon the teeth. During advancement, they are propelled along the dental slides by a pair of dental promoter muscles flanking each tooth, close to the plumule. At the abaxial (or plumular) end of the tooth slides are small, paired styloid processes. The dental promoter muscles originate in the superficial stromal spaces of these processes and insert on the dental membrane. Upon contraction of the promoter muscles, force is transferred to the tooth by tension in its surrounding membrane, which is well endowed with collagen fibrils and bundles. Although some of the bundles wrap around trabecular pillars of the tooth surface, there does not appear to be any direct connection of the muscles to the teeth. However, the muscle fibers do penetrate into the stromal spaces of the jaw and seem to be tethered to trabeculae by bundles of collagen. Smaller muscular regions of the dental membrane, between the plumule and promoter muscles, are possibly antagonists responsible for elongation of the promoter muscles.
40663867|Previous studies suggest that phototaxis in sponge larvae is generated by the bending of a tuft of long posterior cilia (LPC). The photoresponsiveness of these cilia is often assayed by examining their reaction to sudden changes in light intensity. Here, we document and describe the larvae of the tropical marine sponges Neopetrosia proxima and Xestospongia bocatorensis and examine the phototactic behavior of their larvae. Both species brood ovoid, tufted parenchymella larvae, clearly countering an earlier hypothesis that all petrosid sponges are oviparous. Larvae of TV. proxima were positively phototactic and settled after 2 d, while larvae of X. bocatorensis were negatively phototactic and settled in as little as 4 h. In both species, LPC quickly responded to changes in the light intensity. When the light intensity is reduced, the larvae of N. proxima fold the cilia inwards immediately without beating, then flare them outwards, beating for a few seconds, and then gradually return to the neutral position while continuing to beat. In contrast, the larvae of X. bocatorensis flare the cilia outwards when the light intensity is reduced and fold them inwards when the light intensity is increased. Comparisons with reported ciliary responses to light for other species demonstrate that these responses do not show the hypothesized one-to-one correspondence with phototactic behaviors and are, therefore, of limited use in explaining the mechanisms that coordinate larval swimming.
4621890|The relationship between individual heterozygosity and characteristics likely to be associated with fitness was investigated in the labyrinth spider Metepeira ventura. Adult females and their egg sacs were collected at a coastal site in southern California, and three measures of bodily condition (carapace width, weight, residual index) and six measures of reproductive output (number of egg sacs, variation in egg number among sacs [coefficient of variation], total number of eggs, mean eggs/sac, mean eggs/sac divided by carapace width, mean eggs/sac divided by weight) were determined for each spider. The sample was polymorphic at three allozyme loci that were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, and individual females were heterozygous at up to two of the three loci, forming three heterozygosity classes (0, 1, and 2). None of the bodily condition measures were significantly related to the number of heterozygous loci, while four of the reproductive output estimators (total number of eggs, mean eggs/sac, mean eggs/sac divided by carapace width, mean eggs/sac divided by weight) were significantly influenced by heterozygosity. In each significant case, values for class 2 females were less than those for class 0 and 1 females, whose values were usually more similar. Thus, while female bodily condition was comparable among classes, the most heterozygous females produced fewer total eggs and eggs per sac than their less heterozygous peers. The fact that females of M. ventura engage in a reproductive investment-number trade-off suggests that high-variability and low-variability females may be pursuing distinct reproductive strategies in the wild, with more heterozygous females being K-selected (smaller clutches, heavier eggs) and more homozygous females being r-selected (larger clutches, lighter eggs). Further investigation will be needed to assess more fully the fitness value of heterozygosity in M. ventura.
3227224| The gutless marine oligochaete, Olavius crassitunicatus Finogenova 1986 (Tubificidae), from suboxic to sulfidic sediments off Peru, consistently harbored 3 structurally distinct types of extracellular bacterial symbionts. Large, oval bacteria were labeled immunocytochemically, proving their nature as autotrophs. Spectroscopical analysis documented storage of sulfur in this numerically dominant morphotype. Small, rod-shaped bacteria attained a more peripheral position adjacent to the cuticle. The third bacterial type was represented by long, filamentous forms which were often in close contact to the oval bacteria. With their curved or undulate cells, these filiform bacteria resembled spirochetes. They were clearly distinguishable and consistently found in all investigated host specimens. While molecular analyses could not be performed, structural and immunocytochemical evidence indicated that the oval bacteria seemed equivalent to the -proteobacteria in related gutless oligochaetes. On the basis of morphological similarity and indications from closely related symbiotic tubificids, the possible relationship of the two other morphoptypes must remain unsolved and needs further molecular analysis. The three bacterial morphotypes live in a consistent, elaborate, and apparently obligate coexistence with a host that has completely reduced its digestive and excretory organs. 
10.2307/3226883|Meiofaunal hydroids of an undescribed species were found in coarse shell-hash at two sites along the Atlantic coast near Fort Pierce, Florida, USA, between November 1991 and October 1992. Specimens were examined by light microscopy and by scanning and transmission electron microscopy; the behavior was observed and videorecorded. The motile hydroid, up to 1 mm in length, has an extremely long hypostome separating short capitate oral tentacles from longer aboral tentacles, all used in locomotion. A basal disc, similar to that of some actinulae, is used for more permanent attachment. Based on the cnidome (stenoteles, desmonemes, and microbasic mastigophores of two sizes), location and type of tentacles, organization of the endoderm of the tentacle, presence of a supporting lamella, structure of the basal disc, and mode of asexual reproduction, the species is assigned to the family Acaulidae (Athecata, Capitata). Differences from other members of the family, which are all sessile, are considered adaptations to a motile existence, but significant enough to warrant the establishment of a new genus and species, Cryptohydra thieli.
10.2307/3226978|The feeding structures and mechanisms of the brachiopod species Terebratulina septentrionalis from the Bay of Fundy, eastern Canada and Terebratalia transversa from the west coast of Canada were examined, in vivo, with an endoscope linked to a video recording system. A diet consisting of various-sized, light-reflective particles and natural seston was given to both species. Our observations demonstrate that the lateral arms are the sites where most particle rejection occurs and the median coil is the site where particle acceptance occurs. Low particle retention may be attributed to the way particles move on the outer filaments. The combined effect of localized currents produces the large-scale flow through the lophophore. The lophophore's delicate hydrodynamics are easily disturbed by attempts to observe them. Only by relatively non-invasive techniques such as endoscopy can we accurately record normal feeding behaviour.
3701507|Gelatinous Zooplankton play important roles in marine ecosystems and at times can have significant impacts on human activities. Many scyphozoans have enigmatic life cycles and the specific habitat for benthic life history stages is unknown. This is especially true for many of the large surface-cruising scyphomedusae of the northeast Pacific Ocean. Phacellophora camtschatica belongs to the family Ulmaridae and is known to have scyphistomae in the life history. However, the life cycle of P. camtschatica has not been formally described. Here the life cycle of members of P. camtschatica is described based on laboratory observations and compared with early life history stages in the scyphomedusa Aurelia labiata.
3227105|Tertiapatus dominicanus n. g., n. sp. (Tertiapatidae n.fam.) and Succinipatopsis balticus n.gen., n.sp. (Succinipatopsidae n.fam.) (Lobopodia: Onychophora), the first Tertiary fossils of the Lobopodia, are described from Dominican and Baltic amber, respectively. Both families are characterized by the presence of simple legs lacking foot portions with claws and pads. Tertiapatidae is further characterized by soluble body pigments and oral papillae shorter than the legs. Succinipatopsidae is characterized by non-soluble body pigments and oral papillae longer than the legs. Nomenclatural changes include the erection of the class Udeonychophora n.nom. for terrestrial onychophorans with a ventral mouth, the order Ontonychophora n.nom. for extant onychophorans possessing legs with a differentiated "foot" portion, and the family Helenodoridae n.nom. for the genus Helenodora from the Carboniferous. The biogeographical significance of these fossils and their phylogenetic relationship with previously described onychophorans are discussed.
3227166|The spermatozoa of Exogone naidina and E. dispar are characterized by a prominent bell-shaped acrosome, a spheroidal nucleus, and a conventional flagellum. During spermiogenesis, the acrosomal vesicle undergoes conspicuous modifications leading to its final bell shape with a posterior opening. The subacrosomal material initially shows radiating filaments but in mature sperms it appears as a meshwork of electron-opaque material. The acrosomal axis is oblique with respect to the main longitudinal sperm axis. The chromatin is arranged in electron-opaque strands in the early spermatids, then becomes amorphous, and is finally organized in filaments in mature sperms. Centrioles are orthogonally arranged beneath the nucleus and fibers radiate from the distal centriole to contact the plasma membrane and the single mitochondrion. The latter is located eccentrically on the side of the nucleus opposite the acrosome. A disk-shaped structure is evident beneath the distal centriole. The flagellar axoneme has a 9+2 microtubule pattern. A conspicuous glycocalyx surrounds the flagellar plasma membrane, and an electron-lucent space is present between these two structures at the distal tip of the flagellum. We compare the sperm morphology of these two species of Exogone with that described in other members of the subfamily Exogoninae. The fine structure of these two species supports the occurrence of an ent-aquasperm type within Exogoninae, in accordance with the brood strategy present within this subfamily. The mode of reproduction is of taxonomic importance for defining subfamilies within Syllidae, and is likely also of phylogenetic significance. Because epitoky is probably plesiomorphic, the ent-aquasperm type found in Exogoninae can be considered a derived feature within Syllidae.
23016711|Workers of Crematogaster inflata possess the largest metapleural glands (relative to body size) known among ants, with reservoirs extending anteriorly up to the junction between the pro- and the mesothorax, and with over 1400 secretory cells on both sides together. This large secretory capacity is related to the gland's defensive function, which, in members of this species, is directed against larger arthropod and vertebrate enemies, and apparently not against microorganisms, in contrast to other ants, where the gland produces antibiotics. The gland is not equipped with any direct musculature. Secretion release is probably caused by contraction of the oblique longitudinal thorax muscles or by passive expulsion caused by external pressure.
3227160|Simple cupular organs similar to those described in Ciona intestinalis were observed in Corella eumyota. They consist of a macula containing the cell bodies of 20-30 primary sensory neurons whose cilia project into a dome- or finger-shaped structure, the cupula. Rather than being found in the mantle lining as in C. intestinalis, the organs were located on the atrial surface of the branchial sac. The sensory innervation was examined in whole-mount preparations using anti-tubulin immunohistochemistry. Sensory neurons in C. eumyota showed no immunoreactivity with antisera raised against gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). A novel, elongated sense organ termed the cupular strand was found in Corella inflata. It has the same basic components as the simple type of cupular organ but consists of a single, long structure containing ~1500 sensory cells. Located on the atrial surface of the branchial sac, it extends along the midline of the dorsal fold, from the gonoduct openings almost as far as the brain. Preparations were examined using optical and electron microscopy. Nerves and cilia were visualized by anti-tubulin immunofluorescence microscopy. It was possible to follow the sensory axons from the macula of the cupular strand to points where they joined branches of the visceral nerve, which enters a nerve root at the back of the brain. In C. inflata the sensory cell bodies and their axons were immunoreactive not only with anti-tubulin but also with an antiserum raised against Tunicate I GnRH. There was no immunoreactivity, however, with Chicken II and catfish GnRH antisera. All three GnRH antisera labeled the dorsal strand plexus, a structure associated with production of GnRH in its role as a reproductive hormone. We concluded that the GnRH-like molecule labeled in sensory neurons differs from the form of GnRH found in the dorsal strand plexus, and may have a different function, perhaps in the neural control of ciliary activity. The function of the cupular organs in species of Corella has not yet been investigated physiologically, but by analogy with such structures in other metazoans, cupular organs are probably hydrodynamic sensors registering local disturbances or changes in water flow through the atrial cavity.
40981228|The Drosophila cardini group includes 15 species, which are subdivided into the D. cardini and D. dunni subgroups. Although many phylogenetic hypotheses have been proposed for this group during the last five decades (based on patterns of reproductive isolation, morphology of male genitalia, chromosomal inversions, isozyme variation, or molecular sequence data), these are mostly discordant with each other. We aimed to clarify some of the evolutionary patterns related to the origin of this incongruence, while also attempting to provide a better-supported phylogenetic hypothesis for the D. cardini subgroup. For this purpose, sequences from three mitochondrial and three nuclear loci were gathered for at least eight species, and both individual gene trees and joint species tree estimates were evaluated. Although there was concordance among gene trees within each of the nuclear and mitochondrial sets, considerable incongruence was revealed in the comparisons between these two data sets. The branching position of D. neocardini was the main source of incongruence, and species trees reconstructed using different approaches with and without this species were particularly incongruent. In addition to providing a better approximation of the evolutionary history of the D. cardini group, this study suggests that incomplete lineage sorting or introgression may be biasing previous species tree estimates. More generally, the results also suggest that the use of supermatrix methods can lead to an overestimation of support for the inferred relationships, and highlight the potential effects of different taxon sampling strategies in phylogenetic reconstruction.
3227086|A tiny neomenioid postlarva (Neomeniomorpha, or Solenogastres) collected from the water column 3 to 6 m above the east Pacific seamount Fieberling Guyot has 6 iterated, transverse groups of spicules and 7 regions devoid of spicules between the transverse groups and the anterior-and posteriormost spicules. Three pairs of ventral, longitudinal zones with columns of single spicules, each pair with its own distinctive spicule morphology, lack transverse iteration. The 7 regions bare of spicules are compared to shell fields in developing polyplacophorans, and spicule arrangement is compared to sclerite arrangement on the Cambrian fossils Wiwaxia corrugata and Halkieria evangelista and to the spines and shell plates of the Silurian Acaenoplax hayae. The term iteration is used to denote processes that result in both metameric segments and repeated ectodermal skeletal structures. Iterative morphogenesis was probably present in bilateral animals before the Cambrian. Comparisons of iterated ectodermal skeletal structures among fossil and extant forms are suggested to indicate evolutionary relationship.
3227247|The life history of unionid bivalve molluscs includes retention of developing embryos within the gills of parental mussels. This brooding behavior may facilitate nutrient transfer to the glochidia larvae, i.e., matrotrophy. To address this possibility, morphological relationships between brood chambers and developing larvae of Pyganodon cataracta and Utterbackia imbecillis were examined with TEM, and larval shells were observed with SEM, for features that could be associated with the uptake of dissolved materials. Early in brooding, glochidia are enclosed in a vitelline membrane that physically contacts numerous cilia and microvilli of the epithelial cells lining the brood chamber (marsupium). The vitelline membrane subsequently disappears. Lamellar tissues of parental mussels initially have large deposits of glycogen that diminish during the course of brooding. Septa separating brood chambers from adjacent secondary water tubes have numerous mitochondria and microvilli, suggesting the potential for active transport of materials into or out of the marsupia. Since punctae (pores) in the larval shells become filled with an organic matrix early in brooding, they are unlikely to be involved in nutrient exchange. Ultrastructure of the brood chamber and physical contact between the parental mussel and larvae are consistent with a nutritive role for retention of glochidia in the marsupia.
10.2307/3226984|Sea anemones feed by orchestrated movements of tentacles covered with ciliary cones overlying both nematocytes and sensory neurons and mediating nematocyst discharge into prey. The purpose of this study was to investigate the functional morphology of tentacle sensory receptors on Calliactis parasitica and C. tricolor with a combination of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of surface features and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of internal cellular details. We found that the ciliary cones of two types of nematocysts differed: mastigophore-containing nematocytes had an inner ring of large-diameter stereocilia, and basitrich-containing nematocytes had small-diameter stereocilia. Two types of sensory neurons were identified: one had a ciliary cone with an inner ring of large-diameter stereocilia, and the other had a long kinocilium surrounded by a basal ring of short, stubby microvilli. Varying lengths of stereocilia on peripheral supportive cells contributed to both ciliary cones of nematocytes and sensory neurons. Both the supportive epithelial cells with stereocilia and the nonsupportive epithelial cells without stereocilia had a single long kinocilium with a basal body, an accessory centriole, and a thick striated rootlet. Gland cells had a short cilium surrounded by even shorter microvilli. Spirocysts formed apical domes on spirocytes, which had two peripheral rings of short microvilli but no cilium. We believe this combined SEM and TEM study of sensory hairs on tentacles of two species of Calliactis adds to our knowledge of ciliary structures and their cellular associations in sea anemones.
3701448|The tentacles of ommastrephid squids fuse during embryonic development and remain fused as they grow through hatching, but eventually separate to become two fully functional adult tentacles. The external anatomy of individuals at several post-hatching on-togenetic stages of three species of ommastrephid squids (Ommastrephes bartramii, Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis, and Hyaloteuthis pelagica) was examined using scanning electron microscopy and morphometrics. The fusion of the transverse muscle mass of the tentacles was examined using light microscopy. Five ontogenetic stages of tentacle separation were defined based on landmark features such as the extent of the fusion and the presence of suckers or sucker buds at the distal tip. The total tentacle length and fused tentacle length reached a maximum when the dorsal mantle length (ML) equaled 3-4 mm (H. pelagica) or 4-6 mm (O. bartramii, S. oualaniensis), and then decreased with increasing ML. The average split length (measured from the base of the tentacles to the point of tentacle fusion) increased gradually with increasing ML, and the separate tentacle diameter was roughly half the diameter of the fused portion at all sizes. In all three species, separation of the fused tentacles began earlier in development (2-3-mm ML) and was more advanced at smaller sizes than previously reported. The sizes presented here are conservative because excess epithelium at the location of the split may disguise the actual site of separation. Post-separation tentacles were much shorter than the arms, and the carpal region appeared torn in 2 of the 4 specimens of S. oualaniensis examined. Finally, none of the original distal tip suckers were retained on the post-separation tentacles of S. oualaniensis. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the tentacles separate gradually then rupture at the "wrist" (presumptive carpus), and argue against the possibility of prey capture by the fused tentacles.
10.2307/3226972|Carnivorous land snails, Haplotrema concavum, were offered eggs and hatchlings of conspecifics as well as eggs and hatchlings of another snail, Anguispira alternata. These snails made clear choices of prey and revealed a size-related change in feeding preference. Although occasionally engaging in cannibalism, H. concavum exhibited a marked preference for eggs and hatchlings of A. alternata. The tendency to eat eggs diminished as the snails grew, becoming significantly reduced in snails 6-7 mm in diameter.
25623050|This study assessed the effects of long (LD) or short (SD) days on the conversion of [C]-glycerol to [C]-glucose and total lipid concentration in organs of the crab Neohelice granulata challenged by a change in external salinity. In the 20-acclimated crabs, no difference was found in the concentration of total lipids in the muscle, hepatopancreas, gills, or hemolymph between crabs acclimated to SD or LD. In SD crabs, the total lipid levels in the anterior and posterior gills did not decrease during an osmotic challenge. Only in the posterior gills did the total lipid levels decrease during acclimation to the 34 medium in LD animals. The total lipid concentration in the hemolymph decreased after 1 d of osmotic stress in SD, and increased in the hepatopancreas. In LD crabs, the lipid contents decreased gradually in muscle, and in the hepatopancreas on day 3 after transfer to 34 medium. In 20-acclimated crabs, the gluconeogenesis activity in both sets of gills was higher in LD than in SD animals. The gluconeogenesis capacity decreased in both sets of gills on the first day of osmotic challenge in SD, and in the posterior gills on the third day in LD crabs. These results suggest that in organs of N. granulata, photoperiod affects the metabolic adjustments to an osmotic challenge.
3227240| Genetic work on numerous species with planktonically dispersing larvae has demonstrated gene flow throughout populations along the California coast, despite steep environmental gradients around Point Conception. Previous ecological work on a planktonically dispersing intertidal barnacle, Pollicipes polymerus, demonstrated that this species is divided into two physiological races near Point Conception, at Point Latigo. The northern race broods when water temperature either warms or cools to 14C and the southern race broods as water warms to 20C. I examined 8 polymorphic allozyme loci from five populations between Santa Cruz and San Diego to test if the two physiological races are genetically divided. No genetic differences were found over this geographic range, supporting a previous molecular study. These results suggest that reproductive differences between the two races of this stalked barnacle may result from plasticity in brooding activity. 
3227113|It is well known that the competent larvae of many marine invertebrate species can be stimulated to metamorphose by exposing them to elevated concentrations of certain ions, neuroactive substances, and pharmacological agents. In this study we report that larvae of the euryhaline polychaete Capitella sp. I are induced to metamorphose within 24-48 h by reducing salinity from
10.2307/3226947| Yellow, thin-capsuled gemmules of Spongilla lacustris undergo deep diapause. This is the first demonstration of deep diapause in gemmules of this species. Exposure to low temperature promotes emergence from diapause. Evidence suggesting that low temperature may be a necessary condition for breaking deep diapause in sponge gemmules is strongest for Eunapius fragilis. Gemmules stored at 3 C for 3 weeks and then maintained continuously at 20 C for 27 weeks did not hatch, whereas gemmules exposed to 3 C for 18 weeks before they were placed at 20 C hatched within 4 days. Finally, green, thin-capsuled gemmules of Spongilla lacustris and gemmules of Eunapius fragilis eventually hatch at 3 C, but only after a period of several months and only under uncrowded conditions. 
3227226|The vast majority of tested juvenile crayfish of Fallicambarus fodiens consistently preferred conspecific-built mud chimneys over similar-looking human-built chimneys. When the chimneys were surrounded by transparent acetate sheets, the crayfish no longer discriminated between conspecific-built and human-built chimneys. This suggests that visual cues were not important in allowing the crayfish to discriminate between the two chimney types. In the absence of chimneys, significantly more crayfish showed an initial preference for mud saturated with water that had contained conspecifics, over similar mud saturated with distilled water. This indicates that chemical cues play a role in allowing these crayfish to discriminate between the conspecific-conditioned mud and the control wet mud. The preference of F. fodiens individuals for conspecific-built chimneys appears to be based, at least in part, on chemical cues, possibly in addition to tactile cues.
3227177|We have constructed molecular phylogenetic trees for members of the Sphaeriidae in order to test proposed generic level relationships, and to reconstruct the evolutionary pattern of parental care, in this exclusively freshwater family of heterodont bivalves. An ~480 nucleotide fragment of the mitochondrial large ribosomal subunit (16S rDNA) was sequenced for 4 corbiculid outgroups in addition to 19 sphaeriid ingroup taxa. Ingroup species were obtained from North and South America, Europe, and Australasia and included representatives of the main sphaeriid genera. Our analyses support four primary conclusions: 1) the Sphaeriinae are robustly monophyletic with respect to Eupera platensis; 2) the genus Pisidium is paraphyletic and P. sterkianum is sister to the 17 other sphaeriine taxa in our dataset; 3) synchronous brooding is the ancestral reproductive pattern in the Sphaeriinae; 4) the sequential brooders form a clade in which Musculium taxa are monophyletic and nested among lineages of Sphaerium. Our gene trees reveal an evolutionary progression in parental care complexity from the relatively simple pattern in the Euperinae, to the origin of brood sacs and of extraoogonial embryonic nutrition in the common ancestor of the Sphaeriinae, and ultimately to the development of sequential brooding in Sphaerium/Musculium taxa.
10.2307/3226854|Reproductive cycles of 3 sympatric species of the echinoid genus Pseudechinus, found in southeastern New Zealand, were examined over 27 months from October 1989 to December 1991. Analysis of periodic changes in relative gonadal size was used to help define the reproductive cycle of each species. Although P. huttoni reproduced primarily during the early (austral) summers of 1990 and 1991 (December-January), mature gametes were present in the gonads throughout much of the year. Conversely, P. novaezealandiae reproduced primarily during the autumn and early winter (May-July). P. albocinctus had an extended reproductive period in 1990, which peaked in late spring/early summer (December-January), followed by a gradual spawn-out to late autumn (May-June). The pattern was different in 1991, with a secondary peak in reproductive potential noted in late autumn (June). For all 3 species, males tended to be competent to spawn gametes for a longer period than were females. These observations were all corroborated by analysis of changes in overall gonad histology and in the distribution of oocyte sizes in the ovaries of each species throughout the year. P. huttoni and P. novaezealandiae thus appeared to exhibit temporal reproductive isolation from each other. Intraspecific as well as interannual variability in the timing of reproduction, however, suggests that such temporal isolation may not always be complete. In contrast, P. albocinctus was not temporally isolated from either of its 2 sympatric congeners. These results were examined in the context of seasonally variable environmental conditions.
4124901|The epidermis of the free-living typhloplanids Mesostoma viaregginum and M. productum (Mesostominae) is described. In both species, the epidermis has polarized cells with nuclei located at the basal part of the cell, whereas mitochondria are in the apical one. The epidermis is entirely covered by microvilli and locomotory cilia anchored in the cytoplasm by vertical and horizontal rootlets. Rootlets exhibit distinct length and periodic structure in the two species. Furthermore, in each species vertical and horizontal rootlets possess different periodic structure. The pattern of termination of microtubules in epidermal cilia is described for the first time in the Typhloplanida; central microtubules shift along one axonemal side, doublets 1 and 6-9 lose their microtubule B, and gradually peripheral doublets become singlets. Finally, an electron-dense material caps the tip of the cilia. This pattern of termination closely resembles that of Temnocephalida, Kalytorhynchia, and Dalyelliida examined so far, but differences exist.
3227263|The early juvenile development of 3 species of irregular deep-sea echinoids of the NE Atlantic was examined using scanning electron microscopy. Although the post-metamorphic development of these 3 spatangoids is very similar, the morphology and development of fascioles (specialized bands of heavily ciliated minute spines) facilitates distinguishing the species. In Hemiaster expergitus and Spatangus raschi, the fascioles present in the early juvenile develop to form adult fascioles. In Brissopsis lyrigera, a juvenile fasciole of unknown function disappears during ontogenesis, and new adult subanal and periproct fascioles arise. Fascioles of S. raschi and B. lyrifera are present at a very early stage of development (~0.7 mm test length), whereas in H. expergitus the fasciole appears much later (~3 mm test length). Animals smaller than 0.8 mm test diameter have not yet developed a functional mouth and are still considered as endotrophic postlarval stages. Mouth development is similar for all spatangoids examined.
10.2307/3227000|A total of 26,673 mid- to late-instar larval black flies were collected from 115 stream sites in South Carolina. Host larvae with patent, externally visible infections of nematodes, fungus, or microsporidia were identified to species either morphologically or cytologically. Six parasite taxa were identified: nematodes of the family Mermithidae; the fungus Coelomycidium simulii; and the microsporidia Janacekia debaisieuxi, Polydispyrenia simulii, Amblyospora bracteatalvarians, and Caudospora simulii. Of 43 species of black flies, 25 harbored at least one of these parasite taxa. Records from museum specimens increased the number of infected host species in South Carolina to 34 species. Prevalence of patent infections for each parasite taxon was low, ranging from 0.1 to 6.5% of all larvae. The distribution of nematodes among stream sites was nonrandom and correlated with season, host abundance, and stream-site conditions. The association of nematode distributions with stream parameters might reflect environmental influences on the nematodes during their free-living period and on host susceptibility to infection.
40981226|The morphology of marine invertebrate larvae is strongly correlated with egg size and larval feeding mode. Planktotrophic larvae typically have suites of morphological traits that support a planktonic, feeding life style, while lecithotrophic larvae often have larger, yolkier bodies, and in some cases, a reduced expression of larval traits. Poecilogonous species provide interesting cases for the analysis of early morphogenesis, as two morphs of larvae are produced by a single species. We compared morphogenesis in planktotrophic and lecithotrophic morphs of the poecilogonous annelid Streblospio benedicti from the trochophore stage through metamorphosis, using observations of individuals that were observed alive, with scanning electron microscopy, or in serial sections. Offspring of alternate developmental morphs of this species are well known to have divergent morphologies in terms of size, yolk content, and the presence of larval bristles. We found that some phenotypic differences between morphs occur as traits that are present in only one morph (e.g., larval bristles, bacillary cells on the prostomium and pygidium), but that much of the phenotypic divergence is based on heterochronic changes in the differentiation of shared traits (e.g., gut and coelom). Tissue and organ development are compared in both morphs in terms of their structure and ontogenetic change throughout early development and metamorphosis.
3227118|In this study we present the first detailed description of the motor component of the peripheral nervous system of an ascidian showing its three-dimensional organization and the spatial relationships between nerves and contiguous organs. Nerves of the oozooid and blastozooid of the colonial ascidian Botryllus schlosseri were analyzed using a histochemical method for detecting cholinesterase activity in whole-mount preparations and in sections for light and electron microscopy. Except for the neural gland and gonads, all tissues are well innervated by cholinesterase-reactive neurites. Each blastozooid of the colony possesses an individual nerve plexus which is not in continuity with that of adjacent zooids. The innervation of the mantle, oral and cloacal siphons, branchial basket, heart, and gut are described. Most organs possess a complex network of nerves often with multiple origins from different pathways. A sophisticated pattern is described for the first time in the gut, which receives innervation from the endostyle, the roof of the branchial basket, and the posterior mantle. Dilated axonal regions but no obvious cell bodies were recognized in the peripheral nervous system revealed by cholinesterase activity. The localization of nerves is discussed together with a consideration of their physiological role.
3227272|The expected proportion of males in androdioecious populations (those comprised of males and hermaphrodites) largely depends on the fertilization opportunities of males. If male mating opportunities are low due to restricted access to hermaphroditic eggs, then populations will be hermaphrodite-biased. Hermaphrodites have two mechanisms available to limit male mating success: (1) pre-mating barriers to outcrossing, in which hermaphrodites choose not to pair with males and (2) post-mating barriers to outcrossing, in which hermaphrodite sperm has greater access to eggs than male sperm. In this study, we measured male mating success in the androdioecious clam shrimp Eulimnadia texana when pre-mating barriers to outcrossing were removed. These branchiopod crustaceans are small (5-8 mm), filter feeders that live in ephemeral pools in the deserts of the southwestern United States. Using genetic markers, we measured male mating success in laboratory experiments in two populations of these shrimp. We correlated mating success with clasping time, clasping during egg transfer, and male thrusting during egg transfer. Males fertilized an average of 24-40% of the hermaphrodites' eggs. Outcrossing success was positively correlated with clasping duration, and was nearly an order of magnitude higher for males thrusting during egg transfer relative to thrusting at other times during pairing. Because these estimates of mating success were similar to previously reported estimates (in which both pre- and post-mating barriers to outcrossing were potentially important), we deduced that pre-mating barriers to outcrossing do not greatly decrease male outcrossing success in E. texana; the low fertilization (25-50% of available eggs) by males is thus due to post-mating barrier(s) to outcrossing.
25623046|Pomacea canaliculata is an internally fertilizing gastropod that produces, besides fertilizing sperm (= eusperm), a large number of unfertile sperm (=parasperm) that have no chromatin, are fusiform, and have three to five flagella. Here, we report that this snail also produces another type of parasperm, which results from a peculiar spermiogenesis including an anterior cytoplasmic migration. The mature oligopyrene parasperm has: (1) a rounded head including a partly lysed nucleus, (2) a conical mid-piece with eight large mitochondrial structures, and (3) a single flagellum (20 m). These characteristics, although not found in any other gastropod parasperm, are shared with the externally fertilizing "ectaquasperm" and with the early spermiogenic stages of internally fertilizing "introsperm" found among the Annelida and basal Mollusca. There are indications that this sperm type may be produced by a truncation of euspermiogenesis, as proposed by Buckland-Nicks & Scheltema for the expression of ectaquasperm in bilaterian evolution.
4621893|Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) functions as a major chaperone protein that interacts with a limited number of specific client proteins including some transcription factors, many kinases including mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and cytoskeletal proteins. The antibiotic geldanamycin (GA) is frequently used as an in vivo inhibitor of HSP90 function and the organic compound U0126 inhibits the activation of MAPK in live cells. In the present study, embryos of Molgula pacifica, at the gastrula stage, were continuously treated with 5 mol L
3701493| Spider silks possess a remarkable combination of high tensile strength and extensibility that makes them among the toughest materials known. Despite the potential exploitation of these properties in biotechnology, very few silks have ever been characterized mechanically. This is due in part to the difficulty of measuring the thin diameters of silk fibers. The largest silk fibers are only 5-10 m in diameter and some can be as fine as 50 nm in diameter. Such narrow diameters, coupled with the refraction of light due to the anisotropic nature of crystalline regions within silk fibers, make it difficult to determine the size of silk fibers. Here, we report upon a technique that uses polarized light microscopy (PLM) to accurately and precisely characterize the diameters of spider silk fibers. We found that polarized light microscopy is as precise as scanning electron microscopy (SEM) across repeated measurements of individual samples of silk and resulted in mean diameters that were ~0.10 m larger than those from SEM. Furthermore, we demonstrate that thread diameters within webs of individual spiders can vary by as much as 600%. Therefore, the ability of PLM to non-invasively characterize the diameters of each individual silk fiber used in mechanical tests can provide a crucial control for natural variation in silk diameters, both within webs and among spiders. 
10.2307/3227052|Smithsoninema inaequale n.g., n.sp. (Nematoda: Leptolaimidae: Camacolaiminae) is described from one male and one female specimen taken from within an arenaceous foraminiferan, Vanhoeffenella aff. gaussi Rhumbler 1905 (Foraminifera: Astrorhizidae) collected off the coast of Luanda, Angola. The male has a cuticularized, stylet-like thickening of the dorsal buccal wall, and the posterior end of the esophagus is glandular and elongated as in members of Anguinoides and Onchium (Camacolaiminae). Smithsoninema n.g. is characterized by its strong sexual dimorphism. Males are long, slender, and structurally similar to other males of Camacolaiminae. Females are short and stout, with a voluminous, trophosome-like midgut devoid of an internal lumen. The rectum and anus are vestigial. Through the transparent walls of the test it was possible to see the male and female nematodes enclosed within the theca of the foraminiferan. The nematodes were probably parasites, or endo-predators, rather than inquilines. Camacolaiminae is redefined and Nemella Cobb 1920 is synonymized with Ionema Cobb 1920. Dagda SOUTHERN 1914 and Diodontolaimus Southern 1914 are transferred to Camacolaiminae, although Dagda asymmetrica Gerlach 1953, D. phinneyi Murphy 1964, and Diodontolaimus tenuispiculum Gerlach 1955 are transferred from their respective genera to Procamacolaimus. Eontolaimus Furstenberg & Vincx 1988 is synonymized with Listia Blome 1982 (Leptolaiminae). A key to the genera of Camacolaiminae is provided.
10.2307/3226955|Although hermit crabs are cited as obligate users of gastropod shells, some also use portable sponge shelters. At Dog Island, Florida, in the NE corner of the Gulf of Mexico, the hermit crab Pagurus impressus occupies sponges, commonly found near shoreline in January. However, testing of P. impressus in conspecific groups and in a mixed-species assemblage (with P. longicarpus, P. pollicaris, and Paguristes hummi) confirmed that individuals of P. impressus do not prefer sponge shelters. Hermit crabs in sponges sometimes abandoned them for shells and those in shells rarely switched into sponges. Individuals of P. impressus, especially juveniles, may occupy sponge shelters due to competition from more aggressive species and/or shell-scarcity.
10.2307/3226941|The viviparous holothuroid Synaptula hydriformis, a simultaneous hermaphrodite, broods its young in the coelom and releases young year round. Both eggs and sperms develop asynchronously in the two short gonadal tubules that are suspended in the coelomic cavity. Sperms are released into the tubule, but eggs are not. Each gonadal tubule consists of an outer peritoneum composed of flagellated epithelial cells, muscles, and nerves; an inner germinal epithelium of germinal and somatic cells; and a middle connective-tissue (hemal) compartment bounded by the basal laminas of the peritoneum and germinal epithelium. Spermatogonia and oogonia are flagellated epithelial cells that retain epithelial polarity throughout gametogenesis. During spermatogenesis, spermatocytes emerge towards the lumen from the germinal epithelium and sperms enter the lumen apex (tail) first. Supportive and phagocytic interstitial cells are associated with spermatocytes. During oogenesis, oocytes submerge basally into the hemal sinus and carry the epithelial basal lamina ahead of them. The oocyte apex, however, maintains adhering junctions with somatic (follicle) cells and bears a flagellum, at least into the vitellogenic phase. Full-grown oocytes are enclosed in basal lamina, except apically, where an apical protuberance forms. The apical protuberance is a region of ooplasm, devoid of yolk and rich in microtubules, that terminates apically in an extensive junction between the oolemma and follicle cells of the germinal epithelium. The oogenic pattern of S. hydriformis indicates that the apical-basal polarity of the oocyte becomes the animal-vegetal polarity of the egg, which in turn, becomes the anterior-posterior axis of the larva. Homologous oogenic patterns occur in crinoids and ophiuroids, but not asteroids and echinoids. An outgroup analysis of echinoderm oogenic patterns with those of Cephalochordata and Cnidaria suggests that the pattern common to holothuroids, crinoids, and ophiuroids is plesiomorphic to echinoderms and, in general form, to deuterostome metazoans.
40206188|Males are predicted to strategically allocate sperm across mating partners in order to maximize their chances of paternity. This requires that males have the ability to detect aspects of their partner's mating history or the number of potential mates. We investigated whether simultaneous hermaphrodites mating in the male role strategically adjust sperm transfer depending on rearing conditions. The pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis (Basommatophora) is known to donate sperm repeatedly to different partners during a breeding season and store received sperm for >3 months. The rearing conditions of the donor as well as the recipient affect the amount of sperm transferred. Sperm donors raised in isolation transfer more sperm than those raised in groups. Furthermore, isolated sperm donors transfer less sperm to partners that were raised in groups than to those raised in isolation, i.e., virgins. These findings suggest that snails raised in isolation shift their sex allocation toward the male function and indicate that they can somehow assess the mating status of their partner.
3227159| The population structure and reproductive biology of a population of the spionid polychaete Pygospio elegans was studied at Drum Sands, Firth of Forth, Scotland, between March 1997 and February 1998. P. elegans was numerically dominant at the site and exhibited a population density increase through the sampling period. The population showed a seasonal pattern with two acute periods of recruitment during the year, one in spring and one in winter. Planktotrophic larvae were the only larval type produced throughout the sampling period. Larvae were released at the 3-5 setiger stage and settled at a size of 18-22 setigers. The spring tember of the same year. The adult sex ration was female-biased throughout the study period (mean = 2.99:1  0.51). When female:ripe male sex ratios were highest (summer and fall), the proportion of females brooding larvae decreased suggesting that sexual reproduction is seasonal. Asexual reproduction was not observed in the population of P. elegans on Drum Sands. These findings suggest that a high degree of variability is a trait of the reproductive biology of P. elegans. 
10.2307/3226838|Phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters provided a hypothesis for the origin of the Sundanonchidae within the Tetraonchinea (Dactylogyridea) as sister group to the Tetraonchidae. Sundanonchus tomanorum n. sp. is described and S. micropeltis is reported from the gills of toman, Channa micropeltes, from Tapah, Perak, Malaysia.
10.2307/3226853| Of the five types of coelomocytes in the body cavity of Holothuria leucospilota, a common sea cucumber found in shallow waters of Hong Kong, the phagocytic amebocyte is the most abundant. This study was designed to quantify the phagocytic capacity of these amebocytes using a flow cytometer. Fluorescent latex beads (1 m in diameter) were used as experimental particles. The percentage of phagocytizing cells, the number of ingested beads per cell, and the total number of beads ingested were measured simultaneously at different bead/cell ratios (5:1, 10:1, 25:1, 50:1, 100:1, and 200:1). The percentage of phagocytizing cells and the total number of ingested beads were both positively correlated with bead/cell ratio; within 2 h, 96% of the amebocytes contained beads, and on an average, each amebocyte ingested 6 beads when the bead/cell ratio was 200:1. After ingesting beads, the phagocytizing amebocytes transformed from petaloid form to filopodial form. Interruption of microfilaments by cytochalasin B reduced the effectiveness of phagocytosis. 
10.2307/3226880|The majority of deep-sea invertebrates appear to reproduce "continuously" while some species show a marked seasonal rhythm. Deep-sea habitats are not as unvarying as once believed and some areas of the deep-sea floor are subject to a variety of perturbations, including seasonal fluxes of organic matter originating from surface phytoplankton blooms. Some authors suggest that these organic pulses might activate the reproductive processes of seasonally-reproducing species while having no immediate effect on "continuous" breeders. In this paper, we hypothesize that the different reproductive responses to organic matter can be explained by phylogenetic constraints involving interspecific differences in gonadal morphology, nutrient storage and mobilization, the mechanisms of vitellogenesis, feeding biology, digestive processes, and selective use of nutrients. Invertebrates process nutrients in different ways with some having the capacity for "fast egg-production" while others engage in "slow egg-production." In addition, the pace of gametogenesis and the frequency of spawning will be influenced by the presence of storage tissues, which may release energy reserves to the gonads at a predetermined rate. As a result, seasonal organic fluxes to the deep-sea floor will provoke a variety of reproductive responses. We propose three patterns that may clarify the correlation between seasonal phytodetrital pulses and seasonal reproductive patterns in some species: (1) species initiate gametogenesis immediately in response to organic input and undergo spawning soon after; (2) species spawn when seasonal pulses coincide with conditions favorable for their planktotrophic larvae; or (3) seasonal organic input initiates and synchronizes gametogenesis, producing a future spawning episode after an extended period of vitellogenesis. In those species showing seasonal reproduction, the proximate cause is the seasonal pulse of phytodetritus while the ultimate cause stems from the phylogenetic history of the organism. Reproductive periodicity of deep-sea species is generally predicted from an analysis of gamete development. Consequently, we suggest that seasonal breeders be referred to as having "synchronous gametogenesis" while socalled "continuous" breeders be referred to as having "asynchronous gametogenesis." These terms better describe the condition of the developing gametes without making inferences regarding spawning patterns. Generalizations about the potential response of groups of unrelated taxa to various environmental parameters (e.g. organic pulses) fail, because phylogenetically diverse species respond differently.
3227168|We sequenced the 18S rRNA gene from 11 nematomorph species from 9 genera and derived hypotheses concerning the sister group of Nematomorpha and relationships within this taxon. The molecular and morphological data are consistent with the monophyly of Nematomorpha, a sister-group relationship between Nematomorpha and Nematoda, and a sister-group relationship between the marine genus Nectonema and all of the freshwater taxa, Gordiida. Hypotheses of relationships within Gordiida support the traditional taxa Gordiidae, Chordodidae, and Chordodinae but reject Parachordodinae and Spinochordodidae. The molecular results differ from those of previous morphological studies by suggesting a reduction of the two tail lobes at the posterior end of males in Chordodinae, monophyly of the genus Paragordionus, and paraphyly of the genus Chordodes.
10.2307/3227044|A flat-tipped type of sensillum was studied with the scanning electron microscope in three species of mayflies (Ephemeroptera): Baetis rhodani, Rhithrogena loyolaea, and Epeorus sylvicola. This sensillum bears an apical pore and its slightly enlarged tip forms a flange. In B. rhodani, flat-tipped sensilla are distributed over the surface of the antennal articles, except on the flagellum, where they are arranged along the distal border of each article to form bridges between consecutive articles. In R. loyolaea and E. sylvicola, flat-tipped sensilla show a characteristic arrowhead shape, emerge farther from the distal border of each flagellar article, and are not present on scape and pedicel. They are irregularly distributed, fewer than those of B. rhodani, and rarely reach the adjoining antennal article. On the basis of morphology and location, we hypothesize that flat-tipped sensilla function both as mechano- and chemoreceptors.
3227214| Torsion is a process in gastropod ontogenesis where the visceral body portion rotates 180 relative to the head/foot region. We investigated this process in the limpet Patella caerulea by using light microscopy of living larvae, as well as scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of larvae fixed during the torsion process. The completion of the 180 twist takes considerably less time in larvae of Patella caerulea than previously described for other basal gastropod species. At a rearing temperature of 20-22C, individuals complete ontogenetic torsion in ~2 h. Furthermore, the whole process is monophasic, i.e., carried out at a constant speed, without any evidence of distinct "fast" or "slow" phases. Both larval shell muscles-the main and the accessory larval retractor-are already fully contractile before the onset of torsion. During the torsion process both retractors perform cramp-like contractions at ~30 s intervals, which are followed by hydraulic movements of the foot. However, retraction into the embryonic shell occurs only after torsion is completed. The formation of the larval operculum is entirely independent from ontogenetic torsion and starts before the onset of rotation, as does the mineralization of the embryonic shell. The reported variability regarding the timing (mono- versus biphasic; duration) of torsion in basal gastropod species precludes any attempt to interpret these data phylogenetically. The present findings indicate that the torsion process in Patella caerulea, and probably generally in basal gastropods, is primarily caused by contraction of the larval shell muscles in combination with hydraulic activities. In contrast, the adult shell musculature, which is independently formed after torsion is completed, does not contribute to ontogenetic torsion in any way. Thus, fossil data relying on muscle scars of adult shell muscles alone appear inappropriate to prove torted or untorted conditions in early Paleozoic univalved molluscs. Therefore, we argue that paleontological studies dealing with gastropod phylogeny require data other than those based on fossilized attachment sites of adult shell muscles. 
10.2307/3227043| The aquatic gastropod genus Probythinella Thiele is redefined and proposed as a monophyletic subunit (sister to Cincinnatia) within the North American component of the family Hydrobiidae (Prosobranchia: Rissooidea) on the basis of synapomorphies of blunt shell apex, presence of two seminal receptacles, short albumen gland, and blunt terminus of penis. Probythinella is composed of two parapatric species that are distinguished by derived modifications of the outer edge of the operculum and pigmentation of the pallial roof and cephalic tentacles, and also differ in shell shape, thickness of outer shell lip, size of buccal mass (relative to shell height), and number of cusps on the lateral and marginal radular teeth. Species recognized are Probythinella emarginata (Kster), distributed throughout the Mississippi River drainage and drainages of Great Lakes, Hudson Bay, and Mackenzie River; and P. protera Pilsbry, found in brackish waters along the eastern Gulf of Mexico. 
40663841|Cycliophora is one of the most recently described metazoan phyla and hitherto includes only two species: Symbion pandora and Symbion americanus. With a very complex life cycle, cycliophorans are regarded as an enigmatic group with an uncertain phylogenetic position, although they are commonly considered lophotrochozoan protostomes. In order to extend the database concerning the distribution of immunoreactive substances in the freeswimming chordoid larva of S. pandora, we investigated synapsin immunoreactivity using fluorescence-coupled antibodies in combination with confocal laserscanning microscopy. Moreover, we analyzed the co-localization patterns of synapsin, serotonin, and RFamidelike immunoreactivity in the chordoid larva by 3D imaging technology based on the confocal microscopy image stacks. Synapsin is expressed in large parts of the bilobed anterior cerebral ganglion including anterior and dorsal projections. Two pairs of ventral neurites run longitudinally into the larval body of which the inner pair shows only weak, scattered synapsin immunoreactivity. In addition, a lateral synapsin immunoreactive projection emerges posteriorly from each ventral longitudinal axon. Double immunostaining shows co-localization of synapsin and serotonin in the cerebral ganglion, the outer and the inner ventral neurites, and the anterior projections. Synapsin and RFamide-like immunoreactivity co-occur in the cerebral ganglion, the outer ventral neurites, and the dorsal projections. Accordingly, the cerebral ganglion and the outer ventral neurites are the only neural structures that co-express the two neurotransmitters and synapsin. The overall neuroanatomical condition of the cycliophoran chordoid larva resembles much more the situation of adult rather than larval life cycle stages of a number of spiralian taxa.
3227225|Certain stresses experienced by marine larvae from many groups can dramatically reduce aspects of juvenile performance. This study reports the effects of delayed metamorphosis and nutritional stress on survival and growth of the deposit-feeding sipunculan Apionsoma (= Golfingia) misakianum. Approximately 600 larvae collected from the Florida Current plankton were distributed among 3 treatment groups. Ninety larvae (controls) were offered sediment and adult-conditioned seawater 4 d after collection, to induce metamorphosis; larvae of this species could not be induced to metamorphose by increasing the K
10.2307/3227015|Elevated exogenous KCl and CsCl are effective artificial metamorphic triggers for many, but not all, invertebrate larvae. Neither taxonomic nor functional patterns in their effectiveness, however, are apparent. In our experiments, elevated exogenous KCl promoted metamorphosis of larvae of the demosponge Aplysilla sp., but only when applied simultaneously with a biofilmed artificial substratum. Although the presence of this artificial substratum alone significantly enhanced settlement over seawater controls, its effectiveness was further augmented significantly in the presence of elevated KCl, indicating a synergistic interaction. Exposure of larvae to a 2-min pulse of 30 mM KCl promoted metamorphosis as effectively as continuous exposure to 30 mM KCl. Moreover, 30 mM CsCl proved an effective trigger of metamorphosis both in the absence and presence of a biofilmed substratum. As with KCl, the CsCl data indicate the presence of a synergistic interaction between CsCl and the biofilmed substratum. This report provides preliminary insights into the induction of settlement and metamorphosis of sponges, metazoans which lack established sensory and neuronal elements, and it permits comparison with responses of eumetazoans.
10.2307/3227004|Little is known about the cellular events regulating fission in metazoans. In sea anemones, longitudinal fission begins with stretching of the body column and culminates in ripping apart of the animal. Previously, we found that mechanical stretching of the animal plays a regulatory role in early fission events. In this study we use histology, TUNEL cytochemistry, and TEM to analyze the possible spatio-temporal relationship between stretching of tissues during fission and programmed cell death (apoptosis) within stretched tissues. We report that enhanced apoptosis occurs in specific tissue regions apparently most affected by stretching during fission. In stretched animals we find a significant induction of apoptosis at the junctions of body wall and particular mesenteries that begins in the axis parallel to stretch and then progresses to the axis perpendicular to stretch as fission progresses. Based on these results, we propose a model whereby stretching induces apoptosis in populations of cells, allowing tissue to thin and thus facilitating successful fission.
3227264|Cellular components of the tunic were histologically examined in 3 pyrosome species representing all 3 genera of the order: Pyrosoma atlanticum, Pyrosomella verticillata, and Pyrostremma spinosum. Three cell types are distributed in the tunic. Tunic amebocytes, irregularly shaped and motile, often contain granules and/or phagosomes. Spherical tunic cells contain many round vesicles with eosinophilic and acidic materials. Tunic net cells form a cellular network in which their long filopodia connect with one another. The net cells are densely distributed just beneath the tunic surface lining the common cloacal cavity and may produce tension to maintain the colony shape. The presence of net cells suggests a phylogenetic relationship between pyrosomes and some aplousobranch ascidians. Test fibers are multicellular cords that run in the tunic and connect the zooids. In P. atlanticum, they are attached to the epidermal cells of the zooids, and transverse cloacal muscles are attached to the other (proximal) side of the epidermal cells. The test fibers may mediate coordination of the zooids and control muscle contraction.
40206196|Aspects of the life cycle of the peritrich ciliate Zoothamnium intermedium, an epibiont on calanoid copepods in the Chesapeake Bay, were investigated using host and epibiont cultures. Experiments were designed to characterize the formation, survival, and attachment of free-swimming stages (telotrochs) and to assess whether telotrochs preferentially attach to primary (Acartia tonsa and Eurytemora affinis) or alternate hosts from the zooplankton community (the rotifer Brachionus plicatilis, barnacle nauplii, polychaete larvae, and a harpacticoid copepod). The results showed that telotroch formation started 2 h after the death of the host, with >90% of the zooids leaving the host carapace within 7 h. Formation of telotrochs was triggered only by the death of the host, failing to occur when the host was injured or unable to swim. Telotrochs failed to attach to non-living substrates and survived for only 14 h in the absence of host organisms, suggesting that members of Z. intermedium are obligate epibionts. Attachment success decreased with telotroch age, indicating that colonization success in nature may strongly depend on the ability to find a suitable host in a short period of time. Individuals exhibited no preferences in colonizing juvenile or adult stages of A. tonsa or E. affinis. While telotrochs were able to colonize barnacle nauplii and the harpacticoid copepod in the absence of individuals of A. tonsa or E. affinis, they did not attach to the rotifers or polychaete larvae. Telotrochs preferentially colonized individuals of A. tonsa when in the presence of other non-calanoid host species.
10.2307/3226997|A parsimony-based phylogenetic analysis of representative extant species of the neogastropod taxon Columbellidae is presented, based on anatomical and morphological data derived from 23 columbellid species and 5 outgroups. The phylogenetic hypotheses generated are used to address two primary issues: the relationships of columbellid taxa relative to traditional classifications, and changes in alimentary anatomy relative to the evolution of herbivory in columbellids. The six resulting tree topologies support the monophyly of Columbellidae, and the close relationship between columbellids and buccinids. Columbellidae comprises two major clades whose memberships are similar, but not identical, to those of the traditional subfamilies Columbellinae and Pyreninae. Herbivory is present in three columbellid clades, and is probably a derived condition in all three. Though columbellids retain a basic neogastropod gut anatomy, the transition from carnivory to herbivory is accompanied by several anatomical changes, including the addition of a gastric shield and changes in the radula apparatus.
3227101| Both larval and adult fan worms capture particles with opposed bands of cilia. While the larvae use one of the opposed bands (the prototroch) for both feeding and swimming, the sessile adults rely partly on ambient currents to bring food particles to the ciliary bands. The scaling of length of prototrochal cilia with larval body size contrasts with scaling of the opposed latero-frontal cilia with adult body size. In the larva of the serpulid Hydroides elegans, the length of prototrochal cilia increased from 28 to 42 m in early to late-stage larvae. In contrast, latero-frontal cilia did not increase in length (23 m) during postlarval development of H. elegans. Among adults of 5 fan-worm species, lengths of latero-frontal cilia ranged from 22 to 35 m and were weakly correlated with body size. The total area of ciliary filter nevertheless increased with increasing body dry weight of worms with an allometric exponent similar to exponents reported for gill and lophophore areas vs. body weight within species of suspension-feeding bivalves, brachiopods, and gastropods. The similar scaling was remarkable given the striking differences in distribution and function of the ciliary filters. In adult fan worms, increases in filter area depended largely on increases in number and length of radioles; differences in branching of radioles had little effect. Radioles were commonly in 2 or more rows in series, implying refiltration in still water by downstream radioles. Since the allometry of worms' filter area with body size depends on filters in series, it depends on ambient currents that overwhelm ciliary currents. 
4621897|Examination of sexual reproduction in a symbiotic acoelomorph worm, Waminoa brickneri from Eilat (Red Sea), presents the first definitive evidence for maternal transmission of dinoflagellate algal symbionts in a triploblastic organism. Sexually mature worms were removed from the stony coral Plesiastrea laxa and raised in the laboratory. Eggs were detected 18 d after the collection of the worms and hatched 4 d later. Histological sections performed on sexually mature worms showed an ovary with oocytes containing two distinct types of algal endosymbionts within their ooplasm. Transmission electron microscopy corroborated the presence of algal symbionts within the developing embryos. Our findings regarding maternal transmission of symbionts shed new light on the diversity of modes of algal symbiont acquisition known in triploblastic organisms.
40206241|Knowledge about early stages of marine sessile invertebrates dispersing by means of free-swimming propagules is fundamental toward understanding their population biology. In this study, we describe and quantify survivorship of early stages of the gorgonian Paramuricea clavata to contribute to the understanding of their implications on population dynamics of this emblematic species of the Mediterranean hard-bottom communities. Spawning was recorded in June for the 3 years studied (2001-2003). High levels of fertilization rate were observed during the main spawning in 2001 and 2002 (62-69%). This appears to be related to the surface brooding mode of development, synchronous spawning, and high fecundity of the species. The timing of development of the blastulae was ~24 h and the planulae appeared after 48-72 h. In the laboratory, metamorphosis into polyp started between 8 and 25 d, but this timing may have been delayed by lack of unknown appropriate cues for settlement. The behavior of first developed planulae exhibited a marked negative phototaxis that may be a strategy to avoid competition with fast-growing algae on photophilous habitats. Despite the high fertilization rate in P. clavata, laboratory and field experiences indicate that survivorship through the planulae and polyp stages was very low, given that none of the settled polyps survived for >7 months in both experimental years. The low survival of the early stages may help explain the low recruitment rates observed in the field in addition to indicating major limitations for colonization of new areas and for persistence of the local population under disturbances.
3227268|The eyes of aquatic pulmonates differ from those of terrestrial pulmonates; the latter, in species such as Cepaea nemoralis and Trichia hispida, possess conventional, cup-shaped retinas, but the aquatic species Lymnaea stagnalis, Radix peregra, Physa fontinalis, and Planorbarius corneus have retinas that are partitioned into dorsal and ventral depressions ("pits"). The pits are separated by an internal ridge, called the "crest", and on account of their pigmentation can be seen in vivo. The dominant cellular components of the retinae of terrestrial as well as aquatic snails are pigmented cells and microvillar photoreceptors, the latter occurring in two morphologically distinct types (I and II). Aquatic snails with preferences for shallow water possess eyes with both type I and type II photoreceptive cells, but Pl. corneus, an inhabitant of deeper water, only has type-I receptors, supporting an earlier finding that type I cells represent dim- and type II cells bright-light receptors. On the basis of histological and optical comparisons, we conclude that the eyes of L. stagnalis and R. peregra, species that are known to escape and seek temporary refuge above the water surface, are well adapted to function in water as well as air, but that the eyes of P. fontinalis and Pl. corneus are less modified from those of their terrestrial ancestors.
10.2307/3227028| Rhabdamoeba marina was isolated from coastal waters off the Isle of Cumbrae, Scotland. It is worthy of attention for two reasons. Firstly, it is an example of a marine amoeba that is easily overlooked in fresh or enriched samples despite its widespread distribution within these waters. Secondly, the validity of the genus Rhabdamoeba has been questioned mainly because the original description by Dunkerly (1921) was brief and based solely on preserved material. The present redescription of this isolate, based on light and electron microscopy, removes the confusion surrounding the status of the genus. Amoebae are between 5.0 and 25.0 m in length, and are essentially stationary apart from the occasional extension of a long, active, feeding pseudopodium up to 50 m from the cell body. The pseudopodia of stationary cells are distinctive, appearing as knob-like or foot-like extensions around the cell body. Small papillae at the tips of these pseudopodia are evident at high magnifications by light and scanning electron microscopy. Diagnostic features of note at the ultrastructural level include a cell surface without a glycocalyx and a nucleus with a central nucleolus (i.e., vesicular nucleus) which is common in small amoebae. The cytoplasm contains Golgi cisternae and the mitochondria have tubular cristae. The life cycle of this protist includes a flagellated stage that has not previously been reported. 
4124893| The sacoglossan sea slug Elysia clarki feeds on siphonaceous algae, and intracellularly sequesters chloroplasts, which actively photosynthesize for  months. We have determined the algal source of chloroplasts in adults of E. clarki from the Florida Keys, using molecular techniques, feeding experiments, and electron microscopy. Our results clearly demonstrate that specimens of E. clarki sequester chloroplasts from four different species of algae, representing two genera: Penicillus lamourouxii, P. capitatus, Halimeda incrassata, and H. monile. In addition, chloroplasts from more than one species of algae are sequestered simultaneously in the same digestive cell. 
10.2307/3226983|Protistan bacterivory is considered important in aquatic ecosystems but difficult to measure. Two recently proposed enzymatic assays of protistan bacterivory rely on lysozyme hydrolysis of the  glycosidic bond between N-acetylglucosamine and the fluorogenic compound 4-methylumbelliferyl. We analyzed protists and metazoans for acid-lysozyme (L_{ACID)), and found that 5 of 6 protists and 20 of 21 (95%) metazoan genera had L_{ACID). Protistan bacterivory estimates based on L_{ACID) activity may be erroneous if micrometazoans are in analyzed samples, as is likely in benthic and littoral samples and without careful sample processing. In addition, lysozymes (e.g., L_{ACID), -N-acetylglucosaminidase) hydrolyze both peptidoglycan and chitin, meaning that bacterivory may not be distinguished from chitin digestion by lysozyme analyses. Therefore, lysozyme-based analyses of bacterivory should be applied only to samples that do not contain chitinous organisms, and perhaps predators of chitinous organisms. Finally, dissolved organic compounds interfered with fluorometric analysis of enzymatic substrate hydrolysis, leading to an underestimate of L_{ACID) activity. Lysozyme-based analyses of protistan bacterivory developed for use on pelagic samples will be difficult to apply to some inland waters and benthic or littoral samples without precautions to exclude metazoans, chitinolytic enzymes in organisms, and dissolved organic compounds.
10.2307/3226867|Flies of several families (Scatopsidae, Phoridae, Milichiidae) exhibit clear diurnal flight activity patterns in constant total darkness in Dromilly Cave, Jamaica. Most scatopsids were caught on adhesive traps during daytime (>95% between 0630 and 1830) with maximum catches about midday; phorids showed little evidence of cyclic activity although slightly more flew during the last half of the night and early morning (59% between 0000 and 1030); and most milichiids were caught during the day (>70% between 0630 and 1630) with slightly larger catches before midday. Apparently, those insects in the lightless region of the cave that display activity rhythms synchronize their flight activity to the diurnal cycle even though they are unable to see daily light intensity changes outside. Bats flew within the cave throughout the night with activity maxima at dusk and dawn, but they never flew during the middle of the day. We suggest that the flies used bat activity as a secondary zeitgeber.
3227188| The effects of temperature on the development of marine invertebrates have been studied primarily in benthic species. For this study, gametes were collected from Nanomia bijuga, a mesopelagic siphonophore, and were self-crossed. Fertilized eggs kept at 8 and 12C developed more slowly at the lower temperature. Developing stages were preserved after 2, 4, 6, and 9 days of development for comparative analysis with SEM. Concurrent experiments compared survival. Eggs collected from two additional colonies were placed in four temperature treatments: 4, 8, 12, and 18C. The young developed normally in all treatments, but survived longer at lower temperatures. Young of N. bijuga will develop to siphonulae possessing tentacles, nematocysts, and a functional gastrozooid without being fed. Nonetheless, it is likely that food constraints, rather than temperature, limited survival in this study. 
41408393|Adults of the nudibranch mollusc Tritonia diomedea crawl using mucociliary locomotion. Crawling is controlled in part by the large Pedal 5 (Pd5) and Pedal 6 (Pd6) neurons that produce Tritonia Pedal peptides (TPeps). TPeps elicit an increase in ciliary beat frequency, thereby increasing crawling speed. In adults of T. diomedea, an extensive network of TPep-containing neuntes adjacent to the basement membrane of the pedal epithelium delivers TPeps to the ciliated cells. In this study, we show that diverse nudibranchs all have a pattern of TPep-like immunoreactivity similar to that of T. diomedea, with thin tracts of TPep-like immunoreactive (TPep-LIR) neuntes projecting to the epithelial layer. We also show that members of two non-nudibranch gastropod species have a pattern of TPep-innervation similar to that of the nudibranchs. In addition, we characterized two pairs of motor neurons in adults of the nudibranch Armina californica that are possible homologues of the Pd5 and Pd6 cells in T. diomedea. Activity in one of these pairs, the Pedal Peptidergic Dorsal 1 (PPD1) cells, was correlated with mucociliary locomotion. The second pair, the Pedal Peptidergic Ventral 1 cells, shared synchronous synaptic input with the PPD1 cells, a pattern consistent with the shared synaptic input of the T. diomedea Pd5 and Pd6 cells. These findings suggest that the roles of the Pd5 and Pd6 cells as mucociliary motor neurons in nudibranchs are conserved evolutionarily. Additionally, the extensive network of TPep-LIR neurites seen in the foot of T. diomedea appears likely to be a common feature among gastropods.
10.2307/3226846| Gemmules of Ephydatia muelleri, exposed to anoxic conditions (nitrogen) in sealed glass ampules, generally showed no differences from oxic controls in hatchability or hatching rate over exposure periods of 1 to 112 days. Unlike controls, hatching was totally inhibited under anoxia at +20C. Our results directly demonstrate that this species, and probably many freshwater sponges, can survive seasonal anoxia in the gemmule stage. High gemmule survival under nitrogen also permits them to be stored and transported without regard for external temperature. These results are consistent with existence of an ametabolic state under anoxia, but much more detailed work is needed to prove this conjecture. 
23016667|Araucaria forests are among the most threatened biomes of one of the world's 25 biodiversity hotspots, the south Brazilian Atlantic Rain Forest. This study was focused on flatworm community structure in three protected areas located on the eastern border of the Araucaria Plateau in south Brazil. We addressed three main questions: (1) How species-rich are Araucaria forests? (2) Are there any differences in the community structure within the three areas? (3) What is the distribution pattern of land flatworms in this type of forest? A total of 51 flatworm species in ten genera and two subfamilies were found. Non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis showed that the assemblage structure differed within the three areas. The abundance and richness varied in time, being affected by an interaction between season and areas. Araucaria forests on the eastern border of the Araucaria Plateau should be considered a hotspot of land planarian diversity, harboring an estimated 64 species. The high combined species richness in the protected areas studied emphasizes the importance of their preservation. Notwithstanding their close proximity, they are not redundant in maintaining regional biodiversity.
40206215|Freshwater crayfishes of the genus Parastacus are intersex, i. e., show characteristics of both sexes in the same individual; also, intersexuality has been documented in hermaphroditic species. The aim of this study was to analyze the gonads of Parastacus varicosus, characterizing its sexual pattern. The animals were collected at Cova do Touro, Gravatai, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Three sexual forms were identified: intersex females, intersex males, and transitional specimens showing an ovotestes gonad that could only be identified by means of histological analysis. All specimens had two pairs of gonopores and gonoducts. The oviduct had a wider diameter in females, whereas in males the vasa deferentia were more developed. Gonads were composed of two parallel structures located in the cephalothorax. Female gonads were classified into three stages. The presence of transitional specimens may indicate that sex change occurs, with protandric hermaphroditism, as observed in other species of Parastacus. Because previous studies had demonstrated that P. varicosus is a gonochoristic species in a population from Uruguay, the present study addressed the possibility that the sexual pattern depends on differences in environmental factors among populations. To improve understanding of evolution of hermaphroditism in these crustaceans, their reproductive dynamics should be studied, including identification of the factors stimulating male and female functions.
10.2307/3226953|Sipunculus nudus is a large sipunculan that burrows actively in porous marine sands. The body surface is folded into approximately 30 longitudinal ridges that extend along the length of the trunk and introvert. A dermal canal lies beneath each of the ridges and circulates coelomic fluid and hemerythrocytes to within a few micrometers of the body surface. Coelomic fluid enters and leaves the dermal canals through pores leading from the trunk coelom and flows unidirectionally at approximately 0.7 mm/s from posterior to anterior. The flow is generated by cilia on peritoneal cells lining the canals. The volume of the canals is approximately 8% of the total coelomic volume. We suggest that sipunculan species fall into three functional categories based on the body region or regions used for environmental gas exchange. "Tentacle breathers," such as species of Themiste, bore into rocks or micro-oxic sediments and extend their numerous tentacles into the water. Dissolved gases are transported between the tentacular and trunk coelomic cavities via well-developed contractile vessels. "Tentacle and introvert breathers," such as species of Aspidosiphonidae and Phascolosomatidae, lodge the trunk region of the body in the substratum and extend an elongated, thin-walled introvert and tentacles into the water. Their contractile vessels are usually simple unbranched tubes. "Integumentary breathers," such as Sipunculus nudus and other species of Sipunculidae, have integumentary specializations for gas exchange across the entire body surface, but usually small tentacles and often weakly developed contractile vessels.
10.2307/3226966|In this study, we evaluate the aggressive interactions between breeding form (Form I) and non-breeding form (Form II) male crayfishes, Cambarus robustus, during inter-form contests, and compare these data to those from previous studies on intra-form contests in this species. The analysis of inter-form agonistic contests between size-matched crayfishes showed that Form I males were clearly dominant, in most cases, over Form II males. Furthermore, Form I males performed significantly more Lunge and Claws Raised initiation behaviors than Form II males during these contests. These two initiation behaviors strongly indicate the dominant status of individuals in both inter-form and intra-form contests. Form I winners performed significantly more aggressive Claws Raised initiation acts in the inter-form contests, against Form II conspecifics, than in intra-form contests against other Form I conspecifics. Male form is an important variable in the agonistic interactions of cambarid crayfishes. In C. robustus, adult males of both forms coexist in the same populations throughout the year. Thus, Form I and Form II males may compete with one another for access to potentially limiting resources.
40206234|Used singly, the fluorochrome tags tetracycline and calcein have yielded important insights into sea urchin biology, especially regarding growth. We present a new method of tagging using sequential fluorochrome markers, as well as a more precise method of quantifying growth. Such polyfluorochromes enable repeated markings that allow measurement of multiple growth points and unique identification of individuals or groups. We marked sea urchins, Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis, with four fluorochromes: alizarin complexone, calcein, calcein blue, and tetracycline. All fluorochromes marked both by injection and immersion. We examined the clarity of the mark produced with low, metabolically scaled doses, and higher doses similar to those that have been previously used. We tested the effect of fluorochromes on survival, growth, jaw size, and gonad size by marking a size range (3.9-44.3 mm in diameter) of urchins with either one or all four fluorochromes. We quantified growth using a nominal diameter, that is a fitted constant, times the cube root of weight, which increased the precision of measurements by a factor of six relative to measured diameter. Growth rate was a decreasing function of diameter except for a growth lag in the smallest urchins. Growth rate data for all sizes were fitted using: gamma distributions; Tanaka functions; and, for larger sizes, straight lines (von Bertalanffy model). All treatments produced clear marks, with higher doses producing more reliably clear marks. Tetracycline marking did not affect growth; other treatments produced only transient slowing of growth in the marking month. Growth rate, survival, gonad production, and jaw weight did not differ between control and treatments during the following 6 months. Thus, polyfluorochromes produce reliable marks that do not significantly affect growth or gonad production.
40206198|Phenotypic plasticity is the ability of some organisms to exhibit different phenotypes in response to environmental conditions. Many sessile marine invertebrates are morphologically plastic. In colonial cnidarians, compact morphologies are often associated with high-velocity flow regimes, whereas elongated morphologies are associated with calmer water. This ability to alter morphology in response to flow regime likely represents an adaptive strategy: these morphologies may permit efficient suspension feeding and gas exchange while reducing the risk of dislodgment in a particular flow regime. Which flow-related factors (e.g., CO accumulation, drag forces, prey delivery) actually signal a colony to alter its morphology are unclear. In this study, we test the hypothesis that differences in flow regime or some correlate of flow regime (in the absence of differences in prey delivery) signal a colonial cnidarian to change its morphology. To separate prey delivery from water flow, hydroid (Bougainvillia muscus) colonies were fed equivalent amounts in still water, regardless of the flow regime treatment to which they were exposed the rest of the time. Our results show that, regardless of prey delivery, colonies grew in ways characteristic of calm water (with a higher percentage of tall pedicels and secondary hydranths, and fewer basal stolon branches) and of high flow (with more hydranths, free stolons, and a denser basal stolon network) environments. This work suggests that, for this hydroid, prey flux is not a proximate cue mediating morphological plasticity in response to flow regime.
40206186|Light and electron microscopy were used to characterize the structure of secretory cells and their products involved in attachment of two monogenean parasites of fish, in order to understand their role in the attachment process. In Bravohollisia rosetta and Bravohollisia gussevi, peduncular gland cells with two nuclei, granular endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi bodies produce dual electron-dense (DED) secretory bodies with a homogenous electron-dense rind and a less electron-dense fibrillar core (oval and concave in B. rosetta and oval in B. gussevi). The DED secretory bodies are altered as they migrate from the gland cell to the haptoral reservoir, the superficial anchor grooves, and into the gill tissues. The contents of the DED secretory bodies are exocytosed into the reservoirs, fibrillar cores persisting in the matrix, some of which condense, forming highly electron-dense spherical bodies. Small, oval, electron-dense bodies occur in the grooves, while no inclusions are visible in the homogenous exudate within the gill tissues. The single tubular extension of the reservoir enters a bifurcate channel within the anchor via a concealed, crevice-like opening on one side of the anchor. The channel directs secretions into the left and the right grooves via concealed apertures. The secretions, introduced into the tissues by the anchors, probably assist in attachment. The secretions are manifested externally as net-like structures and observed in some cases to be still attached to the point of exudation, on anchors detached from the gill tissues. This suggests that despite having the anchors detached, the worms can still remain anchored to the gill tissues via these net-like structures. Based on this, it is postulated that the net-like secretions probably function as a safety line to anchor the worm during the onset of locomotion and in doing so reduce the risk of tearing host tissues.
4124894|Ovarian ultrastructure and oogenesis in two pycnogonid species, Cilunculus armatus and Ammothella biunguiculata, were investigated. The ovary is morphologically and functionally divided into trunk and pedal parts. The former represents the germarium and contains very young germ cells in a pachytene or postpachytene phase, whereas the latter houses developing previtellogenic and vitellogenic oocytes and represents the vitellarium. Intercellular bridges were occasionally found between young (trunk) germ cells. This indicates that in pycnogonids, as in other animal groups, at the onset of oogenesis clusters of germ cells are generated. As nurse cells are absent in the ovaries of investigated species, the clusters must secondarily split into individual oocytes. In the vitellarium, the oocytes are located outside the ovary. Each oocyte is connected to the ovarian tissue by a stalk composed of several somatic cells. The stalk cells directly associated with the oocyte are equipped with irregular projections that reach the oocyte plasma membrane. This observation suggests that the stalk cells may play a nutritive role. The ooplasm of vitellogenic oocytes comprises mitochondria, free ribosomes, stacks of annulate lamellae, active Golgi complexes, and vesicles derived from these complexes. Within the latter, numerous electron-dense bodies are present. We suggest that these bodies contribute to yolk formation.
10.2307/3226987|We studied morphogenetic events that transform phytoplanktivorous larvae of a naticid gastropod into predatory juveniles that drill and ingest bivalves and ostracods within 3-5 days of metamorphic induction. Larvae of Polinices lewisii were cultured through metamorphosis and histological sections were prepared of 9 larval and 2 post-metamorphic stages. Rapid, metamorphic transformation of feeding and gut structures is accomplished by destruction of larval tissues (velum, large areas of larval esophagus, and gastric shield of the stomach) and by prior formation during the larval stage of various juvenile/adult structures (accessory boring organ, esophageal gland, and buccal mass with jaws, cartilages, intrinsic musculature, salivary glands, and radula). Advanced differentiation of the post-metamorphic buccal mass during the larval stage is possible because the buccal cavity and radular sac develop from a semi-isolated outpocketing of the larval esophagus that does not interfere with the functioning of the larval esophagus. At metamorphosis, the buccal cavity punches out a new mouth opening in the ventral lip of the larval mouth, the larval mouth is sealed shut, and the distal part of the larval esophagus is destroyed. The epithelia forming the oral tube and buccal cavity in predatory adults of P. lewisii have a different developmental origin than the corresponding epithelia in many other adult gastropods.
4621909|Because the taxonomy of marine sponges is based primarily on morphological characters that can display a high degree of phenotypic plasticity, current classifications may not always reflect evolutionary relationships. To assess phylogenetic relationships among sponges in the order Verongida, we examined 11 verongid species, representing six genera and four families. We compared the utility of morphological and molecular data in verongid sponge systematics by comparing a phylogeny constructed from a morphological character matrix with a phylogeny based on nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences. The morphological phylogeny was not well resolved below the ordinal level, likely hindered by the paucity of characters available for analysis, and the potential plasticity of these characters. The molecular phylogeny was well resolved and robust from the ordinal to the species level. We also examined the morphology of spongin fibers to assess their reliability in verongid sponge taxonomy. Fiber diameter and pith content were highly variable within and among species. Despite this variability, spongin fiber comparisons were useful at lower taxonomic levels (i.e., among congeneric species); however, these characters are potentially homoplasic at higher taxonomic levels (i.e., between families). Our molecular data provide good support for the current classification of verongid sponges, but suggest a re-examination and potential reclassification of the genera Aiolochroia and Pseudoceratina. The placements of these genera highlight two current issues in morphology-based sponge taxonomy: intermediate character states and undetermined character polarity.
10.2307/3226914|In some mayfly nymphs, family Baetidae, flat-tipped sensilla occur on antennal segments and on other body parts (tergal borders and cerci). These fine, flat-tipped setae have an apical pore, a basal tubular body, and a branched dendrite along the shaft, an organization consistent with a chemo-mechanosensory function. Phylogenetic considerations are presented on the basis of a survey on the presence or absence of flat-tipped sensilla in some members of the Baetidae. The results of this investigation, and those of other authors, support the hypothesis that this sensillum is an apomorphic character.
10.2307/3227005| Sagittocysts are extrusomes found only in acoel turbellarians. They are needlelike secretory products, on the order of 18-50 m long and 1-5 m wide, and consist of a fibrous cortex, a central filament, and an intermediate lucent layer. We discovered sagittocysts in Convolutriloba longifissura, for which they had not been known before, by using confocal microscopy and a phalloidin-conjugated fluorescent stain that strongly labeled a mantle of muscle around the distal neck of the sagittocyst-secreting cell, the sagittocyte. The muscle mantle apparently plays a role in ejecting the sagittocyst. Positions of the sagittocysts revealed by confocal microscopy suggests their role in defense as well as in prey capture. By electron microscopy, the differentiation of sagittocysts was evident in the proximal part of the sagittocyte. The muscle mantle on the neck of the sagittocyte is conical in shape; its ribbon-like myocyte enwraps the neck in a tight spiral. Extrusion of sagittocysts could be induced by stimulation with electrical pulses, light pulses, or weak hydrochloric acid; only the whole sagittocyst was ejected, not its central filament. The presence of sagittocysts in species of Convolutriloba is sufficient to reassign the genus to the family Sagittiferidae. We establish the new subfamily Convolutrilobinae, with 3 species in the genus Convolutriloba, and new subfamilies for the remaining sagittiferids as well. As extrusomes, sagittocysts are comparable to nematocysts, colloblasts, rhabdites, and other extrusomes common especially to lower eumetazoans, and the origin of all such extrusomes may correlate with the origin of the eumetazoan gut. 
40981227|Macrobrachium ohione is a migratory (amphidromous) river shrimp (Decapoda, Caridea) that may be parasitized by the branchial parasite Probopyrus pandalicola (Isopoda, Bopyridae). The parasite disrupts gonadal maturation and spawning in female shrimps, resulting in the total loss of reproduction. Shrimps are usually infected by bopyrid parasites during the late zoeal or early postlarval stages; in this study, we investigated the apparent parasite infection of adult shrimps. We analyzed the relationships between parasite body size (total length) and host shrimp body size (carapace length) to test the hypothesis that parasite infection of adult shrimps occurs during the shrimps' reproductive migrations. The results presented here indicate that infection of adult shrimps is common in M. ohione in the Atchafalaya and Mississippi Rivers, Louisiana, USA. In the two upriver sites sampled, Butte La Rose (BLR) and River Bend (RB), parasite size was not associated with host body size. In these locations, many parasitized adult M. ohione were infected with immature P. pandalicola (40.3% in BLR and 51.2% in RB), indicating that the shrimps were adults at the time of infection. A possible explanation is that when female shrimps enter the estuary to hatch larvae, they molt and spawn another brood. The smaller male shrimps that accompany the females downstream are also assumed to molt and continue growth. The intermediate host of the parasite is an estuarine copepod, and thus the parasite cryptoniscus larva that infects the host shrimp is primarily estuarine as well. Newly molted shrimps have soft cuticles, which may facilitate their infection by parasite cryptonisci. Our conclusion is that most infections of adult shrimps occur during their migration into estuarine waters, the primary habitat of infective parasite larvae, and that host vulnerability is probably increased following host ecdysis.
40206197|Male polyps of the antipatharian Cirrhipathes sp., collected along the coral reef of Siladen Island (Sulawesi, Indonesia), were studied in order to gain an insight into the reproductive biology. Spermatocysts (maximum size 120 m) are located within the primary gametogenic mesenteries and are separated by mesenteric cell cytoplasmic extensions. Sperm, maturing along radial rows, have a fairly round shape and contain a series of electron-dense vesicles in the apical nuclear region. A single mitochondrion flanks the nucleus. A peculiar cup-like electron-dense body, edged with regularly spaced electron-dense granules, is interposed between the nucleus and the tail, and delimits a central region that includes two centrioles. Cross-sections of the cup-like body reveal that the distal centriole has a pericentriolar system, consisting of nine arms arranged in a radial pattern. Each arm branches into three processes that are connected to the electron-dense granules. Indirect evidence of spawning is derived from the accumulation of sperm in the gastric cavity. This process takes place through the lysis of the cells bordering the mesenteries. Intact cells of this bordering layer appear to be involved in the phagocytosis of non-expelled gametes.
4621885| Thousands of minute scissurellid gastropods (Vetigastropoda: Scissurellidae) were observed and collected at floating light traps in Moorea, French Polynesia, where a mass spawning event occurred on November 11, 2002. More than 20,000 live snails were recovered from the traps, and epidemic spawning continued in the laboratory, where clouds of white sperm and red-orange eggs were broadcast into the water. No aggregations of this magnitude have been reported previously in vetigastropods, nor is the capacity for sustained swimming known from other vetigastropod taxa. Snails had emerged from a local benthic habitat of coral sand and swum through 2 m of water to reach the traps. Scanning electron micrographs of the ornate shells confirm the identity of the most abundant species as Scissurella spinosa, with lesser numbers of Sinezona plicata. Our observations indicate that scissurellids are not exclusively benthic and that they are not rare, even though they have seldom been collected and studied alive. Because little is known about the basic biology and anatomy of scissurellids and because their position within the basal Gastropoda is poorly resolved, we include information on the design and construction of inexpensive light traps to promote comparative investigation of other poorly known species. 
41408391|The sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima is a common member of intertidal communities along the west coast of North America, and can experience extended periods of increased temperature during summertime low tides. Internal body temperatures of emersed individuals of A. elegantissima were monitored in a laboratory wind tunnel and in the field, and factors influencing the anemones' thermal experience were examined. Larger body size and aggregation with conspecifics slowed body temperature increases in controlled wind tunnel conditions. In the field, anemones in the interior of an aggregation stayed cooler than those on the edges, and microhabitat features related to light exposure and surface orientation overshadowed any direct effects of body size. In the warmest month only (July), aggregations of A. elegantissima were significantly larger at the upper limit of their distribution than they were at the mid and lower limits, suggesting aggregation in high intertidal zones may be a behavioral response to desiccation and temperature stress. As this sea anemone can host multiple species of symbiotic algae with different thermal tolerances, the ability to slow body heating may affect the type of algae hosted and thus the potential contribution of this abundant anemone to primary production in the intertidal zone.
10.2307/3227047|Scrupocellaria ferox forms erect colonies whose budding pattern is similar to that of early fossil encrusting cheilostomes, except that peripheral lateral buds are suppressed into heterozoids, and stolons and flexible cuticular joints are present, presumably as a requirement of the erect colony form. The ovicell of S. ferox is a flattened chamber confluent with the zoid distal to the fertile zoid. The ovicell aperture is occluded by a muscular ovicell plug evaginated from the fertile zoid. The embryo more than doubles in size, probably nourished through the placental epithelium of the plug. The operculum and vestibule are strongly reduced. We propose a hypothesis to explain evolution of S. ferox and related species from encrusting ancestors with free gamete release and planktotrophic larvae. (1) Embryos of an ancestral cheilostome began to adhere to the base of the everted vestibule, which caused them to be withdrawn into the introverted vestibule when the lophophore was retracted. (2) Placental nutrition developed, accompanied by hypertrophy of the epithelium of the adherent vestibular wall. (3) Brooded embryos became so large that they no longer could be contained in the vestibule, but remained outside, adherent to evaginated vestibular wall. (4) The setigerous collar (and in Scrupocellaria the operculum) were lost because of this vestibular eversion. (5) The ovicell evolved from a pair of proximal spines on the next distal zoid, which were modified to enclose the vulnerable embryo. (6) The erect colony form of Scrupocellaria was attained, but only after ovicells evolved. This hypothesis implies that the vestibule is the essential part of cheilostome brooding and that external structures, including ovicells, developed subsequently as protection for the embryo. If correct, this hypothesis could account for much of the structural variation among cheilostome brood chambers.
40206238|Larval gut characters of 45 species of black flies, representing 17 subgenera and 15 genera, were studied for their utility in taxon diagnosis and phylogenetic inference. Phasecontrast and scanning electron microscopy revealed a wealth of new characters in the esophageal armature of the foregut. Larval gut morphology, particularly characters of the esophageal armature, varied significantly among taxa, permitting generic diagnoses. A cladogram inferred from 13 gut characters supported a sister-group relationship between Parasimulium and the remaining simuliids, but did not show a strong phylogenetic signal for the current, well-supported concept of tribal level monophyly.
4124906|Osmotic stress associated with the freshwater environment and desiccation stress associated with the terrestrial environment may have a shortening effect on the length of the innervation of crustacean aesthetascs. Physical stress of the littoral environment may have a similar effect on the length of the cuticular portion of aesthetascs. The aesthetascs of crustaceans that inhabit these environments share a similar ultrastructural feature, which may help animals cope with these environmental stresses. This ultrastructural feature, the position of the basal bodies proximal to the lumen of the aesthetasc, is absent from the aesthetascs of crustaceans that occur in the typical marine environment. Interestingly, the ultrastructural feature associated with these stressful habitats is present in the peduncular aesthetascs of the remipede Speleonectes tanumekes, even though the environmental stresses that may invoke the reduction of aesthetascs are absent in the marine-cave environment where this animal occurs. The importance of the sensitivity of aesthetascs for survival in this lightless environment may result in a selective pressure that favors basal bodies to be positioned proximal to the lumen of the aesthetasc.
40206218|Sea urchin embryos form an endoskeletal spicule composed of calcium carbonate and occluded matrix proteins. The accumulation of the LSM34 spicule matrix protein in embryos of Lytechinus pictus (and its ortholog, SpSM50, in Strongylocentrotus purpuratus) has been inhibited using morpholino antisense oligonucleotides. The inhibition, using relatively high levels of antisense reagent, can result in the complete absence of spicules, and the complete loss of immunoreactive LSM34/SpSM50, as judged by immunostaining and Western blotting. Primary mesenchyme cells (PMCs) do form and express PMC-specific cell surface antigens despite this inhibition. However, these anti-LSM34/SpSM50-treated embryos do not accumulate SM30 protein, another major matrix protein. Hence, both the initiation of spicule formation and subsequent morphogenesis require LSM34 accumulation in L. pictus, and the accumulation of its ortholog, SpSM50, in S. purpuratus.
3701491|Identification of specimens in the genus Polymerurus (Gastrotricha, Chaetonotida) is reported for the first time from Australia. The genus includes 3 species from a freshwater lake in southern Queensland. Two species, Polymerurus rhomboides and P. nodicaudus, are well-known cosmopolitans: P. rhomboides is now known from every continent except Antarctica, and P. nodicaudus from all continents except Africa and Antarctica. An ultrastructural description of the cuticle in P. nodicaudus is provided and confirms earlier observations on the structure of spined scales in other species of Chaetonotida, suborder Paucitubulatina. The utility of cuticle ultrastructure is discussed in reference to the search for characters defining higher-level taxa in the Paucitubulatina. A new species, P. andreae, also cohabits the Queensland lake and is distinguished by the following combination of characters: wide mouth ring; pharynx with terminal bulb; simple spineless scales on the dorsal, lateral, and ventrolateral body surfaces; and a column of ventral interciliary scales in rectangular, ovoid, and intermediate shapes.
3227065|We investigated the seasonal prevalence of reproductive activities and of the development of brooded propagules in an intertidal sea anemone, Anthopleura sp., on the rocky shore of Mutsu Bay, in northern Japan. A monthly examination of anemones, by dissection and histological techniques, revealed no sign of gonad development, but did reveal that they produce and internally brood propagules throughout the year. Release of propagules was observed in the field. This anemone population appears to be entirely asexual and agametic, and may persist solely through clonal propagation.
40206201|The marine snail Trichotropis cancellata possesses hairy projections of periostracum (outer shell layer) whose function is unknown. Although rigid shell projections in molluscs have been studied extensively, the selective advantage of flexible extensions of periostracum is less clear. None of the functions proposed previously for periostracum (e.g., protection from erosion and boring) are promoted when it is drawn into hair- like projections. We investigated hypothetical functions that may be served by flexible periostracal hairs, including predator deterrence, alteration of flow vectors to promote feeding or affect turbulence dynamics during freefall, and providing a differential substratum for epibionts. Our laboratory results indicate that crabs, Cancer oregonensis, and sea stars, Pycnopodia helianthoides, consumed snails with the periostracum removed more often than snails with an intact hairy periostracum. However, in both predatory species, some individuals showed no significant preference, and another crab species (Cancer productus) did not strongly discriminate based on the shell periostracum. Field studies showed no difference in the rate of predation on hairy-versus smooth-shelled snails. The hairs did not alter flow around the shells consistently in laboratory flume experiments. Additionally, hairy-and smooth- shelled kleptoparasitic snails grew at rates that were statistically indistinguishable, while hairy, suspension-feeding snails grew more slowly. The hairs did not impact the orientation of a snail after a falling event or the time to righting after a fall. The presence of the hairs did deter settlement by barnacles. We conclude that the hairy periostracum acts as a slight deterrent to crab and sea star predators and as a stronger deterrent to the settlement of large calcareous epibionts, such as barnacles, that would increase the weight the snail must bear and potentially increase drag.
3227191| Reproduction and development in 5 brittle stars: Ophiactis resiliens, Ophionereis fasciata, Ophiothrix caespitosa, Ophiothrix spongicola, and Ophionereis schayeri were investigated in a series of laboratory spawning and fertilization trials. Ophiactis resiliens spawned in 90% of trials, both spontaneously (in response to disturbance) and after temperature and light shock. Ophiothrix caespitosa and Ophiothrix spongicola spawned in 100% of trials, largely due to spontaneous gamete release. In contrast, Ophionereis fasciata and Ophionereis schayeri spawned in only 32% and 50% of trials respectively, and only in response to temperature and light shock. All 5 species required an aggregation of males and females for spawning and fertilization. The breeding periods of each species, estimated from the spawning trials, are reported. Eggs of Ophiactis resiliens, Ophionereis fasciata, Ophiothrix caespitosa, and Ophiothrix spongicola were 83 m, 99 m, 105 m, and 128 m in diameter, respectively, and all underwent planktotrophic development through an ophiopluteus. Eggs of Ophionereis schayeri were 241 m in diameter and underwent lecithotrophic development through an armless bilateral larva that secondarily transformed into a radial vitellaria. The two Ophionereis species, with differing modes of development, provide an ideal opportunity to examine life-history evolution within a clade; however, these species were the most difficult to spawn. Ophiactis resiliens and the two Ophiothrix species spawned readily when they were visually mature at collection, and are thus useful species for developmental studies. 
10.2307/3226895|The serotonergic elements of the nervous system and the morphology of the copulatory stylet and gland cells in the pharyngeal gland ring were studied in two closely related turbellarians, Macrostomum hystricinum marinum and M. pusillum. Both species belong to the monophyletic Macrostomum hystricinum species group (clade), in which they are members of two separate subclades. The morphological differences observed in widely distributed meiobenthic turbellarians may reflect an ancient speciation process. Our results support the hypothesis of loss of paratomy in the Macrostomida. Immunoreactivity to serotonin (5-HT) was shown by means of a whole-mount immunofluorescence technique. Comparison of the 5-HT-positive elements of the nervous system revealed the same basic pattern, but definite differences in the organization of the longitudinal nerve cords, the commissures, the pharyngeal nervous system, and the neuropile of the brain. Our data suggest the existence of two subclades with distinct morphology. The serotonergic elements of the nervous system support the possibility of an early separation of the two species. The single pharyngeal gland cell type observed in M. pusillum, on the other hand, allows arguments for either an early or late separation of the subclades. The M. hystricinum clade may be particularly useful for further testing congruence between morphological differences and molecular sequence analysis. Furthermore, our data suggest that asexual reproduction through paratomy is correlated with the presence of numerous serially arranged serotonergic neurons along the main nerve cords. The concentration and reduction of serotonergic neurons at the postpharyngeal commissure in M. h. marinum and M. pusillum may be correlated with the loss of asexual reproduction and the loss of regeneration of the posterior end of the animals.
25623063|Whale carcasses, sunken wood, and cold seeps provide organically enriched oases in the food-limited deep-sea benthos. At three such enriched habitats in Monterey Bay, CA, at a depth of nearly 3000 m, we observed pycnogonids (sea spiders) of at least two species, Colossendeis gigas and C. japonica, feeding on sea anemones that were commonly found there. Submersible remotely operated vehicles provided direct observations of feeding, as well as high definition video and photographic images. We recorded the co-occurrence of both pycnogonids and prey anemones during ten of 12 visits during 2002-2006. Anemones and pycnogonids were conspicuously more abundant at these oases than in the surrounding benthos. The sedentary anemone Anthosactis pearseae was attached directly to whalebones while the pom-pom anemone, Liponema brevicornis, was found resting on soft sediment, rolling in benthic currents, or accumulating where these currents were disrupted by topography, as at whale falls, wood falls, and clam fields. Both pycnogonid species were observed feeding on these anemones, either as predators or as micropredators.
4621920| Eunicella singularis is a gorgonian species whose members are abundant in hardbottom sublittoral communities of the Mediterranean Sea. The reproductive biology in this species has been examined to better understand the ability in this species to recover from recent mass mortality events. Eunicella singularis is a stable, gonochoric, iteroparous species that reproduces annually and exhibits a seasonal pattern of gametogenesis characterized by a single annual maturation of the gametes. The sex ratio did not significantly differ from 1:1. Oogenesis lasted 13-17 months, beginning between February and June, and ending with the release of 0.7 planula larvae per polyp between late May and July of the following year. The diameter of mature oocytes ranged 450-860 m. Spermatogenesis was much shorter than oogenesis and occurred over 5-6 months. Gonadal production of both sexes increased in spring and culminated with the spawning of male colonies in late May-June. Fertilization of oocytes and development of the planula larvae occurred within the polyps of female colonies. Planula release was observed in June and July. The patterns emerging from this and previous studies on sexual reproduction of Mediterranean gorgonians suggest that investment in gonad development appears to be related to resource availability. 
3227246|Previous studies have shown variable patterns of paternity after multiple mating, and also variation in sperm storage among individuals of Arianta arbustorum, which suggests that the spermatheca may influence paternity in this promiscuous land snail. To identify possible morphological correlates of sperm manipulation, we investigated arrangement and ultrastructure of the muscles of the spermatheca. The musculature surrounding the 2-9 spermathecal tubules is arranged in a complex three dimensional network. In addition, each tubule has a thin sheath in which longitudinally oriented cells make up the innermost layer. Usually, the smooth muscle cells are enclosed by connective tissue. Only occasionally is direct muscle-muscle contact established through dense plaques. The short thick filaments, their small diameter, the relatively weak development of the tubular system and sarcoplasmic reticulum, and the low density of mitochondria indicate that the muscle cells contract relatively fast but with little strength, that they recover slowly, and have low endurance. A single muscle cell may be innervated by several axons and one axon may contact several muscle cells. Combining evidence of the present paper and a foregoing investigation on the spermathecal epithelium, we suggest that the main function of the spermathecal muscles is to expel sperm stored for fertilization, while the ciliation of the common duct is probably responsible for the distribution of sperm among the tubules.
3227081| The monogeneans Decacotyle lymmae and D. tetrakordyle (Monocotylidae: Decacotylinae), from gills of the dasyatid stingrays Taeniura lymma and Pastinachus sephen, respectively, have a single aperture for adhesive secretion on each side of the anterior ventrolateral region. Rod-shaped bodies (S1) and electron-dense spherical secretion (S2) exit through specialised ducts opening adjacent to one another within these apertures. The S1 bodies are 230  11 nm wide and 4 m long in D. lymmae and 240  9 nm wide and 3.3 m long in D. tetrakordyle. The S2 bodies have a diameter of 88  7 nm in D. lymmae and 65  6 nm in D. tetrakordyle. The apertures are unusual in being extremely small (internal diameter, 3-5 m). Each aperture has a slit-like surface opening as small as 160 nm wide, surrounded by muscle fibres indicating that they may be opened and closed. The aperture is also surrounded and underlain by muscle fibres that may aid in secretion from, or even eversion of, the tissue within the aperture. Sensilla/cilia are also found within the apertures. Additional secretions from anteromedian and anterolateral glands (body glands), each containing granular secretions, occur in profusion and exit anteriorly and posteriorly to the position of the apertures, through duct openings in the general body tegument. These granular secretions do not appear to be associated with anterior adhesion. Both species show similarities in aperture, underlying tissue, sense organ, and secretion detail, in accordance with findings from other monogenean genera, and which supports the importance of such data for phylogenetic studies. 
10.2307/3226855|Differences between paired structures sometimes occur normally, but random variation can give insight into developmental stability and environmental stress. In clypeasteroid sand dollars, the modified ambulacra, or petals, are among the most conspicuous bilaterally paired structures. In this study, all petal pairs deviated from perfect bilateral symmetry. Analysis of the anterior and posterior petals of Encope micropora suggested that they were antisymmetric. The anterior petals of small and large Mellita tenuis, and the posterior petals of large M. tenuis and of Arachnoides placenta, showed directional asymmetry with the left side larger than the right. The variation in the posterior petals of small M. tenuis and the anterior petals of A. placenta did not differ from fluctuating asymmetry. The posterior petals of small M. tenuis collected two years apart from the same population had similar fluctuating asymmetry indices. Based on the relative indices scaled for size, the indices for the anterior petals of A. placenta were two to four times greater than the indices for the posterior petals of M. tenuis. The same set of petals could not be compared across species as problems with size, antisymmetry, and/or directional asymmetry occurred in a disjunct pattern across species. Differences in symmetry between the anterior and posterior areas could result from an uncoupling of their development. The effect of the offset stomach and intestine in the body, resulting from the flattened body-form, is the probable explanation of the directional asymmetry producing larger petals on the left side. It is not known whether this directional asymmetry has a genetic basis or is the result of pressure from the stomach contents.
25623044|When individual placozoans, Trichoplax adhaerens, were fed to polyps of the hydroid Podocoryna carnea, the polyps became paralyzed in all 27 trials. In one instance the hydroid polyp died and in five instances a fragment of the placozoan survived. The time to recovery from paralysis varied with the relative size of the polyp and the placozoan. Placozoans were disassociated into separate cells and then reaggregated by centrifugation to produce pellets of tissue lacking the vesicles called shiny spheres, normally abundant in the upper epithelium. We fed pellets of two size classes to the hydroid polyps. When the placozoan pellet was smaller than the hydroid, paralysis was eliminated in nine of ten trials. When the placozoan pellet was comparable in size to the polyp, paralysis occurred but the recovery time was substantially reduced, compared with trials in which polyps were fed intact placozoans possessing shiny spheres. These results support a function of shiny spheres in anti-predator defense.
3227112|Here we describe a new bdelloid rotifer, Abrochtha carnivora n.sp., that preys on other bdelloids and monogonont rotifers. This is the first report of predatory behavior in bdelloids. Despite this extraordinary behavior, A. carnivora displays no major structural deviation from the standard body plan for members of the bdelloid family Philodinavidae: body with head (with ciliated corona), trunk, and foot, mastax with ramate trophi. The finding of such a carnivorous species, unique for the class, appears to contradict the common assumption that the wholly parthenogenetic bdelloids are evolutionary dead-ends.
10.2307/3226990|The medial epidermal surface of the buccal tentacles of the synaptid holothuroid, Leptosynapta galliennei, bears 5-30 ciliated cups. Each cup consists of an epidermal elevation with a central invagination forming a small pit. Whereas the epidermis of the outer lining of the cups is similar to that on the adjacent tentacle, the epidermis lining each pit consists of ciliated cells gathered together in a central bulb and surrounded by elongated support cells. The basal parts of ciliated cells are tapered and, together, form a nerve bundle entering the intradermal nerve plexus of the tentacle. We suggest that the ciliated cells and thus the entire ciliated cup has chemo-sensory function. It is further suggested that the cups allow the holothuroid to test the properties of the surrounding water and could also provide information on the palatibility of collected food material.
3701465|The tunic of colonial ascidians of the genus Cystodytes is a dynamic and complex system where a variety of cell types and microsymbionts are found. The tunic is also the site where pyridoacridine alkaloids involved in chemical defense are found. We wanted to explore the composition of symbionts and tunic cell types and their relationship with localization of alkaloids in three color morphs (usually attributed to the species Cystodytes dellechiajei). Tunic morphology was studied by means of transmission electron microscopy, and energy-dispersive X-ray microanalysis was performed for indirect localization of the bioactive alkaloids produced by these morphotypes. The main cell types identified are bladder cells, pigment cells, amebocytes, phagocytes, and morula cells. Amebocytes include several subtypes that may correspond to a sequence of ontogenetic stages; these cells also seem to give rise to other cell types. In the three morphotypes, the morphology of the tunic and tunic cells is basically the same. The alkaloids are localized in the pigment cells. At least three types of bacteria are present in the tunic, but they are scarce and do not store the targeted bioactive alkaloids. Our results indicate that, although pyridoacridine alkaloids are present in these ascidians, as in a variety of animal phyla, their wide taxonomic range is not necessarily the result of production by common microsymbionts, but rather of the convergent evolution of a successful biosynthetic pathway.
3227138|Ciliary filter-feeding structures of gymnolaemate bryozoans-adults of Flustrellidra hispida and Alcyonidium gelatinosum, larvae of Membranipora sp.-were studied with SEM. In F. hispida and A. gelatinosum, the distal part of each tentacle has a straight row of stiff laterofrontal cilia which carry out "ciliary sieving" to capture suspended food particles that are subsequently transported downward towards the mouth by tentacle flicking; both structure and function resemble those of stenolaemate tentacles. The proximal part of the tentacle and of the ciliary ridge of a cyphonautes larva have strikingly similar structures, except that the laterofrontal cells are monociliate in the adults and biciliate in the larvae. The laterofrontal cells of the tentacles are arranged in a zigzag row and their cilia form two parallel rows, a frontal and a lateral row. The latter probably forms the sieve of stiff filter cilia in front of the water-pumping lateral cilia, whereas the frontal row appears to be held close to the frontal ciliary band of the tentacle. The biciliate laterofrontal cells of the cyphonautes larva have the cilia arranged in similar rows. The detailed morphological similarities between the ciliary bands of adult and larval filtering structures suggest that the feeding mechanisms are similar, contrary to what has been previously thought.
3227073|We have explored the process by which crinoids increase arm number as they grow. Two hypotheses have been proposed: (1) arm autotomy with subsequent bifurcation and regeneration of a pair of arms, and (2) growth of a pinnule into an additional arm. We have traced the development of Oxycomanthus japonicus for about a year after fertilization and provide the first confirmation that the number of arms increases by autotomy, bifurcation, and subsequent regeneration of a pair of arms. The next such addition tends to occur at some distance from the previous pair. Thus, increase of arm number takes place in such a manner that the density of the arms remains relatively constant, and an efficient filtration fan for feeding is maintained. Although arm autotomy in crinoids has been considered to occur only as a response to physical or chemical disturbance, the present results suggest that autotomy also occurs as a specific, intrinsically programmed event during normal development.
40206248|Ophiopeza spinosa, a small ophiodermatid ophiuroid, is locally abundant in shallow water rubble habitat at Lizard Island, northern Great Barrier Reef, Australia. This species is a protantric hermaphrodite. The switch from reproduction as a male to a female is progressive, involving a simultaneous hermaphrodite as a transitional stage. Members of O. spinosa brood their young in the respiratory bursae. Cohorts of eggs (280 m diameter) develop synchronously in the gonad and are spawned as a group into the bursa. Despite nonpelagic development, the larvae of O. spinosa are a vitellaria type typical of broadcast-spawning ophiodermatids, providing a link to an ancestral form with a dispersive larva. The vitellaria has prominent ciliary bands and swims in the same manner as pelagic vitellaria. In vitro, the larvae developed to the juvenile stage independent of the parent. There was no evidence of extraembryonic nutrition; a proportion of the maternal provisions were retained through metamorphosis. This is the first ophiuroid known to brood a pelagic-type vitellaria larva. Juveniles appear to leave the parent at the two-to three-arm segment stage, slightly larger than the newly settled juveniles of ophiodermatids with pelagic vitellariae. The presence of functional larvae in the bursa suggests a recent switch to the incubatory life history in O. spinosa and the possibility of a reversal back to a dispersive life history. O. spinosa have the potential to both brood and broadcast their young.
3227145| The asymmetry displayed by the body plan of gastropods has been directly or indirectly attributed to an evolutionary process called torsion. Torsion is defined as a rotation of 180 between the cephalopodium (head and foot) and visceropallium (visceral organs, mantle, mantle cavity, and shell). During development, the displacement of anatomical components occurs during a process called "ontogenetic torsion." Although ontogenetic torsion is central to theories of gastropod evolution, surprisingly few studies have documented actual tissue movements during the development of asymmetry in gastropods. We investigated the development of the mantle cavity and pleurovisceral nerve connective (visceral nerve loop) in the caenogastropods Amphissa columbiana and Euspira lewisii, because displacements of both of these structures are interpreted as major consequences of torsion. Scanning electron micrographs, histological sections, and immunofluorescence images showed that the developing visceropallium twists by 90 relative to the cephalopodium, the mantle cavity initially forms on the right side, and displacements of the visceral nerve loop become evident on the left side before the right side. A developmental stage in which the mantle cavity is confined to the right side has also been reported in members of the Vetigastropoda and Heterobranchia. We suggest that further comparative studies should test the hypothesis that early development throughout the Gastropoda converges on an embryonic organization in which the mantle cavity and anus are located laterally, despite clade-specific differences in developmental patterns both before and after this stage. 
40206246|Two species of earthworms were used to unravel why some earthworm species crawl out of the soil at night after heavy rain. Specimens of Amynthas gracilis, which show this behavior, were found to have poor tolerance to water immersion and a diurnal rhythm of oxygen consumption, using more oxygen at night than during the day. The other species, Pontoscolex corethrurus, survived longer under water and was never observed to crawl out of the soil after heavy rain; its oxygen consumption was not only lower than that of A. gracilis but also lacked a diurnal rhythm. Accordingly, we suggest that earthworms have at least two types of physical strategies to deal with water immersion and attendant oxygen depletion of the soil. The first is represented by A. gracilis; they crawl out of the waterlogged soil, especially at night when their oxygen consumption increases. The other strategy, shown by P. corethrurus, allows the earthworms to survive at a lower concentration of oxygen due to lower consumption; these worms can therefore remain longer in oxygen-poor conditions, and never crawl out of the soil after heavy rain.
3227149| A light and electron immunohistochemical study was carried out on the body wall muscles of the chaetognath Sagitta friderici for the presence of a variety of contractile proteins (myosin, paramyosin, actin), regulatory proteins (tropomyosin, troponin), and structural proteins (-actinin, desmin, vimentin). The primary muscle (~80% of body wall volume) showed the characteristic structure of transversely striated muscles, and was comparable to that of insect asynchronous flight muscles. In addition, the body wall had a secondary muscle with a peculiar structure, displaying two sarcomere types (S1 and S2), which alternated along the myofibrils. S1 sarcomeres were similar to those in the slow striated fibers of many invertebrates. In contrast, S2 sarcomeres did not show a regular sarcomeric pattern, but instead exhibited parallel arrays of 2 filament types. The thickest filaments (~10-15 nm) were arranged to form lamellar structures, surrounded by the thinnest filaments (~6 nm). Immunoreactions to desmin and vimentin were negative in both muscle types. The primary muscle exhibited the classical distribution of muscle proteins: actin, tropomyosin, and troponin were detected along the thin filaments, whereas myosin and paramyosin were localized along the thick filaments; immunolabeling of -actinin was found at Z-bands. Immunoreactions in the S1 sarcomeres of the secondary muscle were very similar to those found in the primary muscle. Interestingly, the S2 sarcomeres of this muscle were labeled with actin and tropomyosin antibodies, and presented no immunoreactions to both myosin and paramyosin. -Actinin in the secondary muscle was only detected at the Z-lines that separate S1 from S2. These findings suggest that S2 are not true sarcomeres. Although they contain actin and tropomyosin in their thinnest filaments, their thickest filaments do not show myosin or paramyosin, as the striated muscle thick myofilaments do. These peculiar S2 thick filaments might be an uncommon type of intermediate filament, which were labeled neither with desmin or vimentin antibodies. 
23016670|Semelparity is one of the most drastic reproductive strategies found among marine invertebrates. It is frequently found in species whose members have small adult sizes and brood embryos internally. In this study, we describe the reproductive strategy of the bivalve Gaimardia bahamondei to explore the possible causes of the association between semelparity and internal brooding. Males of this species exhibit continuous gonadal activity throughout the breeding season. Apparently continuous spawning of sperm is associated with an abundance of captured sperm in the adfrontal region of the gill filaments of both males and females. Females are capable of brooding three cohorts of embryos simultaneously while also producing three new cohorts of oocytes. This suggests that females are able to generate at least six cohorts of embryos during the breeding season. Embryos are brooded in the suprabranchial chamber and are individually surrounded by a membrane with a projecting peduncle; embryos are anchored by this peduncle to the adfrontal region of the gill filaments. Members of the youngest cohort differ in size, color, and shell ornamentation from members of the two older cohorts. There is no difference between members of the two older cohorts in size, but there is with respect to coloring and shell ornamentation. The importance of the embryonic cohorts in terms of their percentage of the total number of embryos varied among brooding females, suggesting among-female variation in the timing of release of the oldest cohort of embryos. Members of this cohort break loose from the gills, lose their surrounding membrane, and fall into the ventral region of the suprabranchial chamber, from which they are evacuated to the exterior. Continuous sperm production in males and the production of at least six cohorts of embryos in females suggest that the costs of reproduction are high, which may partly explain the semelparity identified in this species.
10.2307/3226922|The cardiovascular system of the American lobster includes a large muscular heart that pumps blood into seven arteries, each of which ramifies extensively. Portions of the system may be viewed as relatively primitive, while others are highly derived. We have confirmed earlier findings that the sternal artery is not a single vessel, but a paired structure. The sternal artery and its partner closely resemble the medial branches of the segmental lateral vessels from the dorsal abdominal artery in anterior segments of the abdomen, and they may be homologous. We report that the walls of the dorsal abdominal artery contain blocks of striated muscle cells and that the artery can be induced to contract in response to electrical stimulation or perfusion with proctolin. These observations provide the basis for an attempt to trace the evolution of the heart and arteries from that of primitive malacostracans to its state of development in lobsters.
3227133|Neurons of sea anemone tentacles receive stimuli via sensory cells and process and transmit information via a plexus of nerve fibers. The nerve plexus is best revealed by scanning electron microscopy of epidermal peels of the tentacles. The nerve plexus lies above the epidermal muscular layer where it appears as numerous parallel longitudinal and short interconnected nerve fibers in Calliactis parasitica. Bipolar and multipolar neurons are present and neurites form interneuronal and neuromuscular synaptic contacts. Transmission electron microscopy of cross sections of tentacles of small animals, both C. parasitica and Aiptasia pallida, reveals bundles of 50-100 nerve fibers lying above groups of longitudinal muscle fibers separated by intrusions of mesoglea. Smaller groups of 10-50 slender nerve fibers are oriented at right angles to the circular muscle formed by the bases of the digestive cells. The unmyelinated nerve fibers lack any glial wrapping, although some bundles of epidermal fibers are partially enveloped by cytoplasmic extensions of the muscle cells; small gastrodermal nerve bundles lie between digestive epithelial cells above their basal myonemes. A hypothetical model for sensory input and motor output in the epidermal and gastrodermal nerve plexuses of sea anemones is proposed.
3227212|The ultrastructure of the thin, non-cellular cuticle is described for 6 marine oligochaetes, representing 3 of the subfamilies (Phallodrilinae, Limnodriloidinae, and Rhyacodrilinae) of the Tubificidae. The main components of the cuticle in these 6 species, as in most other oligochaetes examined, are: (1) a fiber zone closest to the epidermis, consisting of collagen fibers embedded in a matrix, (2) an epicuticle, which is a continuation of the matrix outside the fiber zone, and (3) epicuticular projections, which are membrane-bound bodies covering the outer surface of the epicuticle. The projections are probably formed by the microvilli that penetrate the cuticle from the epidermal cells below, but this was confirmed only in the studied limnodriloidines. Three of the species examined, Duridrilus tardus, Olavius vacuus, and Heterodrilus paucifascis, lack microvilli. The morphology of the components in the cuticle differs between the studied species. The collagen fibers may form an "orthogonal grid" (i.e., layers of parallel fibers perpendicular to the layers immediately above and below), or they may form parallel layers, or be irregularly scattered. The number of dense layers in the epicuticle, as well as the shape and internal structure of the epicuticular projections, also vary. All these characters might be useful in future phylogenetic analyses to achieve better hypotheses of relationships within oligochaetes as well as to other groups.
40663842|The topic of tissue and organ regeneration has been of interest to life scientists ever since the phenomenon was noticed. The reason for this is obvious: if one can learn what drives and controls regeneration, i. e., how lost or damaged structures can be replaced, one not only has a better chance to understand an animal's embryogenesis and evolutionary relationship with other taxa, but one would also be in a better position to treat organ loss or tissue damage in humans. In this context, the possible restitution of individual sensory neurons or nerve projections has been of special interest to us. We identified central visual projections in several gastropod species and found that: (1) projections are very extensive across the brain and (2) they have connections with other systems and organs (including, most likely, non-ocular skin photoreceptors) that may be involved in the integration of signals from different sensors. Investigations of afferent and efferent visual elements at a morphological level should help reveal the neuronal basis of a gastropod's behavioral reactions.
3227132|We investigated several aspects of the larval biology of the anemone Anthopleura elegantissima, which harbors algal symbionts from two different taxa, and the non-symbiotic A. artemisia. From a 7-year study, we report variable spawning and fertilization success of A. elegantissima in the laboratory. We examined the dynamics of symbiosis onset in larvae of A. elegantissima. Zoochlorellae, freshly isolated from an adult host, were taken up and retained during the larval feeding process, as has been described previously for zooxanthellae. In addition, larvae infected with zooxanthellae remained more highly infected in high-light conditions, compared to larvae with zoochlorellae, which remained more highly infected in low-light conditions. These results parallel the differential distribution of the algal types observed in adult anemones in the field and their differential tolerances to light and temperature. We report on numerous failed attempts to induce settlement and metamorphosis of larvae of A. elegantissima, using a variety of substrates and chemical inducers. We also describe a novel change in morphology of some older planulae, in which large bulges, resembling tentacles, develop around the mouth. Finally, we provide the first description of planulae of A. artemisia and report on attempts to infect this non-symbiotic species with zooxanthellae and zoochlorellae.
4621896|The starlet sea anemone, Nematostella vectensis, is a small burrowing estuarine animal, native to the Atlantic coast of North America. In recent years, this anemone has emerged as a model system in cnidarian developmental biology. Molecular studies of embryology and larval development in N. vectensis have provided important insights into the evolution of key metazoan traits. However, the adult body plan of N. vectensis may arise via four distinct developmental trajectories: (1) embryogenesis following sexual reproduction, (2) asexual reproduction via physal pinching, (3) asexual reproduction via polarity reversal, and (4) regeneration following bisection through the body column. Here, we compare the ontogenetic sequences underlying alternate developmental trajectories. Additionally, we describe the predictable generation of anomalous phenotypes that can occur following localized injuries to the body column. These studies suggest testable hypotheses on the molecular mechanisms underlying alternate developmental trajectories, and they provoke new questions about the evolution of novel developmental trajectories and their initiation via environmental cues.
3701459|Eversion of the preputium is one of the initial steps in the male copulatory behavior of freshwater pulmonates. Previous experiments have shown that serotonergic mechanisms are involved in eversion in the snail Biomphalaria glabrata because the vertebrate 5-HT
3227147|Ultrastructural features of the pharynx, esophagus, and associated intrinsic visceral muscular and nervous structures of the booklouse, Liposcelis divinatorius, were studied to determine whether the anatomical arrangements of these structures differed from the general pattern found in insects. The results are compared with previous light microscope studies of this tiny insect. Variations from the usual arrangement reported for intrinsic visceral muscles associated with the pharynx in insects are described. Intrinsic visceral muscles include a narrow band of circularly disposed fibers and both extra-circular and intra-circular longitudinally disposed fibers. This represents a departure from the slightly developed inner longitudinal and more prominent outer circular fibers seen in most insects. The outer surface of some circular muscle cells has apparently unique pouches packed with mitochondria, which contain many cristae. Numerous bacteroids appear in the esophageal epithelial cells and in the sub-esophageal ganglion. Nerve processes associated with the foregut contain neurotubules, synaptic vesicles, and electron-dense granules.
10.2307/3226878|Epitokes of the syllid polychaete Odontosyllis enopla, caught during swarming and maintained in the laboratory, are described and illustrated. As they survived swarming and resumed a benthic life, sexual maturation and epitoky are reversible in this species. The hitherto unknown benthic life-style was studied in post-spawning adults and in juveniles collected from the benthos in the upper sublittoral at the site of swarming. O. enopla inhabits silk tubes fastened to hard substrates and encrusted with sand grains. The worms are carnivorous, foraging in the dark, probably on spionids. After swarming, the worms shed the swimming setae and, according to preliminary evidence, may develop a double line of dark-brown pigment across each segment. Bioluminescence is not restricted to the well-described swarming display but was observed for months after spawning as a startle response. Swimming trochophores hatch the morning after spawning and, while developing into three-segmented larvae, may continue swimming or gliding on the substrate or may attach themselves to the substrate by a thread secreted from the pygidium. The lecithotrophic phase of life may last four weeks. Start of feeding and the transition to permanent benthic life have not yet been observed. The relations between Odontosyllis enopla, also called the "Bermudian fireworm," and Caribbean populations of Odontosyllis are discussed.
10.2307/3226937|Histophagous ciliate infections were infrequently detected in blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, from Chesapeake Bay, Delaware Bay, and a coastal bay of Maryland. Associated pathology included hemocyte aggregations in various tissues and nodule formation. Protargol silver staining of cultured ciliates revealed an oral apparatus morphologically similar to that of other hemolymph-infecting ciliates of the genus Mesanophrys. The oral apparatus included three distinct oral polykinetids and an oral dikinetid consisting predominantly of a b segment and a smaller c segment. Morphologic comparison to other histophagous ciliates infecting crustaceans showed that the ciliate in blue crabs is a distinct species, Mesanophrys chesapeakensis n. sp., family Orchitophryidae.
3227271|The polychaete Boccardia proboscidea has poecilogonous development that includes the production of both planktotrophic and adelphophagic young. In this study, we use scanning electron microscopy to analyse external morphogenesis of planktotrophic offspring with emphasis on early embryos, morphogenesis during metamorphosis, and the dynamic nature of larval structures during early ontogeny. Larval growth involves addition of terminal chaetigers and formation of segment-specific structures such as cilia and chaetae. Our observations reveal that most ciliary bands are reduced or incomplete relative to those found in larvae of other polychaete families. We describe a small metatroch (consisting of only a few trochoblasts) in early embryos, which has not previously been reported in the Spionidae. The presence of the metatroch does not imply a function in opposed-band feeding, as a food groove intermediate between the prototroch and metatroch is lacking. A neurotroch, inconsistently reported in the Spionidae, is also present and terminates in a ciliated pit. Many larval structures (e.g., presumptive sensory organs) are short-lived, implying a shift towards early functionality of adult traits in larvae. Metamorphosis is gradual and occurs over the latter half of the larval life. The reduction of larval structures, and early development of adult traits, suggests an overall shift in morphology facilitating settlement and juvenile development.
10.2307/3226875|The effect of age on the infectivity of cercariae to their second intermediate host may limit their transmission. Individual ostracods (Cypridopsis sp.) were exposed to cercariae of the hemiurid trematode Halipegus occidualis, ranging in age from 1 to 25 days. Surviving ostracods were then examined for infection, and the number of dead hosts recorded. The number of cercariae ingested by the ostracods remained constant throughout the experiments. However, the number of mesocercariae recovered from ostracods declined significantly as the cercariae increased in age. Cercariae 25 days old were not infective to ostracods. The number of deaths among infected hosts was significantly higher than that in uninfected controls. Examination of variance to mean ratios suggested that host mortality was parasite-induced. The results indicate that the opportunity of transmission for these cercariae is considerably smaller than previously suggested.
3227148| The ecological roles of small (1-1000 mg) predators in benthic marine systems are poorly understood. We investigated the natural history and predatory impact of one group of such mesopredators-larvae of dipteran flies in the genus Oedoparena-which prey on intertidal barnacles. We 1) quantified patterns of larval Oedoparena distribution and abundance in the Northwest Straits of Washington State, USA, 2) determined larval physiological tolerance limits in the laboratory, and 3) conducted a manipulative field experiment to assess the role of microhabitat temperature on predation rates in Oedoparena. Members of Oedoparena in Washington are univoltine, with peak larval abundance in late spring and early summer. Infestation frequencies in the barnacles Balanus glandula and Chthamalus dalli were as high as 22% and 35%, respectively. In laboratory studies, larvae of O. glauca were able to tolerate temperatures up to 37C; however, this temperature is often exceeded in high intertidal habitats. In a field manipulation using experimental shades, we demonstrate that the alleviation of physiological stress greatly increased the abundance of larvae of Oedoparena spp. As a result of increased larval densities under shades, adult B. glandula mortality increased from 5% to nearly 30%. and C. dalli mortality increased from less than 20% to over 60%. Because high intertidal barnacles serve as food and habitat for a diverse array of species, Oedoparena spp. have the potential to play a major role in structuring high intertidal communities, particularly in cooler microhabitats. 
4621922|Several recent experimental studies have assessed the behavioral reproductive ecology of four opisthobranch species belonging to the families Aglajidae and Gastropteridae (Cephalaspidea). In order to extend the scope of this earlier work, here we document the reproductive morphology and behavior of 36 taxa belonging to the same two sea slug families. Measurements focus on insemination patterns, spawning characteristics, as well as the size and shape of male and female reproductive organs (i.e., prostate, penis, bursa copulatrix, seminal receptacle). We found that behavioral and morphological traits vary considerably between species, even between closely related taxa. Mating behavior covers the full spectrum from unilateral to simultaneously reciprocal insemination and includes putatively antagonistic mechanisms such as hypodermic injection in some cases. With respect to morphology, particularly great variation was present in traits related to the male sexual function, such as prostate size and penis type. In traits associated with the female function, noticeable variation in those traits accessible for measurement was limited to the relative size of the spermdigesting bursa copulatrix. These data provide the basis for future comparative analyses on the evolution of reproductive characters in a phylogenetic context. We further explore the relationship between characteristics and body size. Our data corroborate previous findings that in species with exclusively planktotrophic development, investment per embryo (using mean egg diameter per species as a proxy) is independent of mean species body size. In contrast to egg size, spawn weight and the number of eggs per spawn tightly increased with body size, both within and among species. Hence, larger individuals among planktotrophs increased reproductive investment by increasing offspring quantity rather than investing more into each single offspring. Comparably large eggs with few eggs per spawn in our only two species with facultatively intracapsular metamorphosis are also consistent with findings in other opisthobranchs.
4124896|The tridentate pedicellariae in all species of Diadema and Echinothrix recognized by Mortensen, plus species described later (to include D. palmeri and two color morphs of E. calamaris) were examined to identify diagnostic species characters, and to determine whether such characters are useful in inferring phylogenetic relationships between species. Nineteen morphological characters were measured and analyzed, and species-specific characters were identified. The morphometric data were then transformed using gap coding and a parsimony analysis was undertaken. The resulting cladogram for the tridentate pedicellariae present in species of Diadema was compared with the mitochondrial DNA phylogeny of Lessios et al., with a good level of congruence observed. Very narrow forceps-like tridentate pedicellariae were found to be basal among Recent species, present only in D. setosum and D. palmeri. Members of D. palmeri were found to be unique within the genus, having both the forceps-like form and a broad form of tridentate pedicellaria. The very narrow forceps-like form is absent in all subsequent divergent species, while the broad form of tridentate pedicellaria in D. palmeri is basal to the broad forms in D. antillarum, D. mexicanum, D. paucispinum, and both the broad and narrow forms of tridentate pedicellaria of D. savignyi. The greatest similarity was found between the broad forms of tridentate pedicellaria in D. antillarum and D. mexicanum. These species were also found to have narrow forms of tridentate pedicellaria that showed a reasonable level of association to one another and to the rostrate form in D. ascensionis. Since the work of Mortensen, D. ascensionis has been shown, using mitochondrial DNA, to be nested within D. antillarum. The results of this study show that the tridentate pedicellaria in D. ascensionis are distinctly different from all other forms within the genus, to the extent that they belong to a rostrate subclass. This indicates that, among Diadema species, the tridentate pedicellariae are one of the first morphological characters to diverge in genetically isolated populations. Unlike the tridentate pedicellariae in Diadema, the different forms of tridentate pedicellariae in E. calamaris and E. diadema showed a stronger association intraspecifically than between forms interspecifically. The small forms of tridentate pedicellaria of the white and brown color morphs in E. calamaris showed a high level of association, while the large forms showed only a moderate association, far lower than would be expected between color morphs of the same species. This suggests that they are either subspecies or recently diverged separate species. This study demonstrates the taxonomic value contained within the characters of the tridentate pedicellariae for both differentiating species (even subspecies) and inferring phylogenetic relationships between species.
10.2307/3226906| The massive coral Goniopora tenuidens can develop elongated "sweeper" polyps. These are thought to be involved in aggressive interactions with neighbouring benthic organisms, like the sweeper tentacles of other corals. The cnidoms of sweeper polyps and ordinary polyps of G. tenuidens from the Great Barrier Reef were compared. Sweeper polyps had significantly greater densities of elongate holotrichous isorhizas (34577  3839/mg; mean  SD, n = 6) than ordinary polyps (936  371/mg; p < 0.05), while ordinary polyps had significantly greater densities of spirocysts (75994  15992/mg) than sweeper polyps (19469  7808/mg; p < 0.05). This suggests that sweeper polyps of G. tenuidens, like the sweeper tentacles of other corals, are modified for aggression, and that they probably act through nematocyst discharge. However, the scattered distribution of sweeper polyps observed on colonies of G. tenuidens in the field suggests that sweeper polyps may have other functions. 
3227106|Members of Tigriopus californicus, an harpacticoid copepod, live in small, shallow tidepools in the upper spray zone where they cannot avoid the full effect of visible and ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Field experiments using ambient light show that individuals of T. californicus aggregate in areas of lower radiation at midday, yet have no preference at dawn and dusk. In lab experiments, individuals of T. californicus show no preference between areas exposed only to photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) or shade, but aggregate in the shaded portion of a tank when exposed to UV-B. Light detection in T. californicus is presumably by the nauplius eye, which is described at the histological and ultrastructural levels. Microvilli of the photosensitive rhabdomere are regularly packed at noon, dusk, and midnight. Processes suggesting rhabdomere synthesis, including vesicles and tubules binding to the base of microvilli, are observed at these times. At dawn, the rhabdomere shows areas of degeneration and coated pits and multivesicular bodies are common at the base of the microvilli. Comparison with previous studies show a wide variety of nauplius eye complexity in copepods.
3701479|These experiments are part of a larger study designed to investigate the influence of husbandry parameters on the life history of the apple snail, Marisa cornuarietis. The overall objective of the program is to identify suitable husbandry conditions for maintaining multigeneration populations of this species in the laboratory for use in ecotoxicological testing. In this article, we focus on the effects of photoperiod, temperature, and population density on adult fecundity and juvenile growth. Increasing photoperiod from 12 to 16 h of light per day had no effect on adult fecundity or egg hatching and relatively minor effects on juvenile growth and development. Rearing snails at temperatures between 22 C and
10.2307/3226859|Studies of hydroid metamorphosis have been primarily limited to 3 species: the athecate Hydractinia echinata and 2 thecates, Phialidium gregarium and Mitrocomella polydiademata. To determine if findings from studies on those species can be applied generally, the effects of various agents implicated in hydroid metamorphosis were examined in 2 additional athecates, Halocordyle disticha and Hydractinia symbiolongicarpus. As in all species studied to date. H. disticha and H. symbiolongicarpus can be induced with activators of protein kinase C (PKC) and cannot be induced by the Ca
10.2307/3226998|Many freshwater mussels of the family Unionidae form conglutinates, specialized packets of parasitic glochidia that often mimic host prey items. Conglutinates of the kidneyshell, Ptychobranchus fasciolaris, resemble either insect larvae or fish fry. These structures, examined with light and scanning electron microscopy, are composed of three acellular layers separated by fluid or mucoidal layers. Regions of the conglutinate that appear to mimic eyes are shown to be particularly thin areas that readily rupture and liberate glochidia. Thus, elaboration of mimicry characteristics, such as "eyes," is accompanied by functional differentiation of regions of the conglutinate.
3227267| Coding sequences (5,334 nt total) from elongation factor-1, elongation factor-2, and the largest subunit of RNA polymerase II were determined for 6 species of Tardigrada, 2 of Arthropoda, and 2 of Onychophora. Parsimony and likelihood analyses of nucleotides and amino acids yielded strong support for Tardigrada and all internal nodes (i.e., 100% bootstrap support for Tardigrada, Eutardigrada, Parachela, Hypsibiidae, and Macrobiotidae). Results are in agreement with morphology and an earlier molecular study based on analysis of 18S ribosomal sequences. Divergence times have been estimated from amino acid sequence data using an empirical Bayesian statistical approach, which does not assume a strict molecular clock. Divergence time estimates are pre-Vendian for Tardigrada/Arthropoda, Vendian or earlier for Eutardigrada/Heterotardigrada, Silurian to Ordovician for Parachela/Apochela. Permian to Carboniferous for Hypsibiidae and Macrobiotidae, and Mesozoic for Isohypsibius/Thulinia (both within Hypsibiidae) and Macrobiotus/Richtersius (both within Macrobiotidae). 
3227137|Anatomical, histological, and ultrastructural investigation of the hydrothermal vent phyllodocid Galapagomystides aristata shows that this unusual polychaete has a normal mouth and foregut but a highly modified midgut with a blood-filled lumen. The foregut includes a protrusible proboscis armed distally with minute spines. Midgut tissues contain concentrically banded spherocrystals, composed mainly of iron, phosphorus, and silicon, and abundant lipid droplets. The blood-filled midgut lumen extends to the final segment of the worm, but we find no sign of an anus. There is no evidence of symbiotic bacteria in tissues of G. aristata. Stable isotope analyses indicate that G. aristata is likely to be a secondary consumer. We propose that these worms are hematophagous, although they lack many common anatomical adaptations for a blood-sucking way of life.
10.2307/3226910|In the penis glands of the dugesiid planarian Girardia schubarti, 6 secretory cell types were distinguished based on their histology and distribution. One cell type (type I) opens into the most distal part of the bulbar cavity, 3 cell types (types IIa, IIb, and IIc) open into the ejaculatory duct, and 2 cell types (types IIIa and IIIb) open directly into the male atrium through the epithelium of the penis papilla. Secretory cells of types IIb, IIc, and IIIa were identified as mucocytes. Types I, IIa, and IIIb produce a proteinaceous secretion. Fixation with neutral formaldehyde best preserves the integrity of the secretory granules of the penis glands. The distribution, number, and histochemical affinities of the cell types of the penial glands may constitute differential taxonomic characters. The role of the penis glands in maintaining sperm viability and in sperm transfer is compared with their function in other dugesiid species.
4124892|Colonies of the freshwater colonial rotifer Sinantherina socialis (Monogononta, Flosculariidae) have been shown to be unpalatable to a variety of small-mouthed, zooplanktivorous fishes. To test whether invertebrate predators ingest the rotifer S. socialis, we conducted two types of experiments: (1) Microcosm experiments-in separate experiments, four invertebrate predators (i.e., dragonfly nymphs, damselfly nymphs, notonectids, and Hydra) were offered prey either singly or in combination. Prey were comprised of S. socialis; Epiphanes senta, a solitary, free-swimming rotifer; and Daphnia magna, a microcrustacean. In each experiment, the percent of prey surviving after 12, 18, and 24 h was recorded. (2) Paired-feeding experiments-in separate experiments, predators were offered prey in a pairwise fashion, in which members of D. magna were alternated with a rotifer, either S. socialis or E. senta. The results of the microcosm experiments showed that, after 24 h, 60-100% prey items of S. socialis survived the predators, but significantly fewer individuals of E. senta (6-89%) and D. magna (<25%) survived. When offered rotifers and individuals of D. magna simultaneously, predators tested consistently consumed more specimens of Daphnia. However, predators significantly reduced percent survival in E. senta but not in S. socialis. Predators, given a choice between the two rotifer species, all consumed significantly more specimens of E. senta than S. socialis after 24h. In the paired-feeding experiments, three of the four predators captured members of S. socialis, but these colonies were frequently released rather than ingested, although in some cases colony structure was seriously disrupted. Our results suggest that the unpalatable nature of members of S. socialis to certain fishes extends to several invertebrate predators, but the nature of the putative factor(s) responsible for this remains unknown.
3227241|The mode of allo-recognition among colonies was investigated in a viviparous ascidian, Botrylloides lentus. Each embryo is enveloped by a pouch of epithelial cells (brood pouch), and is brooded in the vascular lumen of the parental colony. That is, the parental colony tolerates the presence of semi-allogeneic conspecifics (embryos) in the vascular system. A rejection reaction occurs when incompatible colonies are brought into contact at their growing edges. The inflammatory rejection reaction is limited to a small area where the tunic of two colonies has partially fused. On the contrary, incompatible colonies fuse and their blood vessels become interconnected with one another, when they are brought into contact at artificially cut surfaces. This mode is the same as those of other viviparous species of Botrylloides, B. fuscus and B. violaceus. A relationship between viviparity and the loss of allo-recognition in the vascular system is suggested.
3227261| The cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) mediates interactions of immune and inflammatory cells in mammals. Previous reports also have linked plasma (cell-free hemolymph) levels of IL-1 in the snail Biomphalaria glabrata to resistance againsts Schistosoma mansoni. In the present study, fluorescent probes were used to study larval schistosome and snail hemocyte viability during in vitro encounters. Hemolymph (plasma and hemocytes) from schistosome-susceptible (M-line) and resistant (13-16-R1) B. glabrata was added to sporocysts of S. mansoni and the viability of hemocytes and parasites was assessed. Next, IL-1 was added to sporocyst-hemolymph samples, the viability of sporocysts and hemocytes determined and then compared to control assays. The number of live sporocysts present after incubation for 1 h with hemolymph from M-line snails was significantly greater than the number seen when hemolymph from 13-16-R1 snails was tested. Nearly all sporocysts survived the 1 h incubation with M-line hemolymph, and most of the hemocytes attached to sporocysts were dead. In contrast, nearly all sporocysts were dead when hemolymph from 13-16-R1 snails was tested, and most attached hemocytes were alive. Addition of IL-1 to M-line hemolymph resulted in a dramatic increase in sporocyst death. Addition of IL-1 to 13-16-R1 hemolymph produced a small but significant increase in the rate of sporocyst death. These results indicate that the concentration of IL-1 present in hemolymph from B. glabrata is directly related to the ability of this snail to kill S. mansoni sporocysts in vitro. 
4621908|Corticium candelabrum is a homosclerophorid sponge widespread along the rocky Mediterranean sublittoral. Scanning and transmission electron microscopy were used to describe the gametes and larval development. The species is hermaphroditic. Oocytes and spermatocytes are clearly differentiated in April. Embryos develop from June to July when the larvae are released spontaneously. Spermatic cysts originate from choanocyte chambers and spermatogonia from choanocytes by choanocyte mitosis. Oocytes have a nucleolate nucleus and a cytoplasm filled with yolk granules and some lipids. Embryos are surrounded by firmly interlaced follicular cells from the parental tissue. A thin collagen layer lies below the follicular cells. The blastocoel is formed by migration of blastomeres to the morula periphery. Collagen is spread through the whole blastocoel in the embryo, but is organized in a dense layer (basal lamina) separating cells from the blastocoel in the larva. The larva is a typical cinctoblastula. The pseudostratified larval epithelium is formed by ciliated cells. The basal zone of the ciliated cells contains lipid inclusions and some yolk granules; the intermediate zone is occupied by the nucleus; and the apical zone contains abundant electron-lucent vesicles and gives rise to cilia with a single cross-striated rootlet. Numerous paracrystalline structures are contained in vacuoles within both apical and basal zones of the ciliated cells. Several slightly differentiated cell types are present in different parts of the larva. Most cells are ciliated, and show ultrastructural particularities depending on their location in the larvae (antero-lateral, intermediate, and posterior regions). A few smaller cells are non-ciliated. Several features of the C. candelabrum larva seem to support the previously proposed paraphyletic position of homoscleromorphs with respect to the other demosponges.
23016672|A paucity of data on the reproductive cycle of crabs in the family Lithodidae inhibits both the development of management strategies and the formulation of hypotheses regarding the evolution of lithodid life histories. Life-history parameters of Lopholithodes foraminatus from British Columbia, Canada, were investigated based on 26 females maintained in the laboratory and supplementary observations on other living and preserved animals. The rate of embryonic development was determined by measuring the percentage area occupied by yolk in lateral views of eggs removed from brooding females throughout development. Females of L. foraminatus exhibited biennial reproduction including an 18-month brooding period. Females molted, mated, and extruded eggs in mid-summer, and did not release larvae until late winter or early spring of the second year after fertilization. Embryogenesis included a 12-month diapause at the gastrula stage. Females released larvae over a mean interval of 69 d, the longest reported for any lithodid. While the development stage of embryos was observed to be heterogeneous within a brood, no spatial gradient in development rate was observed, calling into question the oxygen limitation hypothesis of extended hatching. Biennial reproduction of individuals of L. foraminatus may be a consequence of a relatively low-quality habitat. Relative to annual reproduction, biennial reproduction halves the potential rate of increase of a population and increases vulnerability to overharvesting, suggesting that L. foraminatus is not a good candidate for commercial exploitation. The adaptive value of embryonic diapause is uncertain and warrants further research.
3227223|An undescribed species of Orbiniidae (Annelida; Polychaeta) is found in large numbers associated with communities of the mussel, Bathymodiolus childressi at hydrocarbon seeps on the Louisiana slope (Gulf of Mexico). Their microhabitat is often hypoxic and sulfidic, which poses serious respiratory challenges for an aerobic metazoan. They display several anatomical features that are quite unusual for this family, which likely allow them to live in their food-rich, but oxygen-limited, habitat. The anterior gills are hypertrophied whereas the posterior gills are not. These anterior gills provide the worms with a large gill surface area  9.9 cm
23016712|Most bryozoan colonies live firmly attached to hard surfaces, but some species live on sandy or muddy bottoms, anchored to the substratum by one or more rhizoids. The small, conical colonies of members of the genus Conescharellina live attached to the substratum by several rhizoids, each produced by a modified, non-feeding zooid (kenozooid). It was previously thought that these colonies lived prone on the substratum, anchored but not supported by the rhizoids. In this study, I observed the behavior of a living colony of Conescharellina catella collected from the East China Sea and maintained in the laboratory for 2 months. The colony lived apex down, suspended above the substratum by several rhizoids arising in the apical two-fifths of the colony, to a total height of nearly five times colony height. Starting from an uprooted position lying on the substratum, the colony reattached and righted itself to the erect position using existing or newly produced rhizoids. After I removed all rhizoids, the colony was able to right itself only after it regenerated rhizoids. In each of several series of observations, righting behavior involved similar steps and followed a similar time course, and it can thus be considered a stereotypical behavior. Histological sections showed that the rhizoids lack muscles. I speculate that righting is effected by differential turgor (internal pressure) and differential growth of rhizoids originating from kenozooids in different positions around the central colony axis, although it is unclear how the colony senses orientation and coordinates adjustments to achieve the preferred orientation.
10.2307/3226849|Phylogenetic relationships of 13 adenophorean and 15 secernentean nematodes were analyzed using morphological data and 18S rDNA sequences in parallel. Both data sets strongly supported monophyly of Adenophorea and Secernentea. Monophyly of the subfamily Stilbonematinae-which is remarkable for symbiosis with bacteria-was also confirmed. Three taxa without symbionts (Desmodora, Xyzzors, and Acanthopharynx) branched at the base of the adenophoreans. Enoplus meridionalis, representing the Enoplida, was distantly related to the remaining adenophoreans and formed their most basal branch. All analyses also supported monophyly of the genera Eubostrichus, Laxus, Haemonchus, and Caenorhabditis. Within the secernenteans, the genus Rhabditis, however, appeared to be paraphyletic with respect to the genus Rhabditella.
10.2307/3227041|We investigated possible relationships among pseudocoelomates (aschelminths) by using cladistic analysis to uncover all most-parsimonious trees from a data set comprising 45 morphological characters of 11 phyla (3 acoelomate, 7 pseudocoelomate, and 1 coelomate). Analysis of our matrix yielded 2 most-parsimonious trees, differing only in relative placement of 3 taxa (Kinorhyncha, Loricifera, and Priapulida). Tree topology suggests that the pseudocoel either evolved twice, or that it evolved once and was then independently lost in Gastrotricha and in Gnathostomulida. Tree topology also is consistent with derivation of the pseudocoel from a coelom. From our analysis and that of other morphologically-based studies, we conclude that there are 2 main lines of pseudocoelomate evolution: (1) a minor clade (Acanthocephala + Rotifera) defined principally by a syncytial epidermis, intracytoplasmic lamina, and sperms with anterior flagella; (2) a major clade (the 5 remaining phyla), defined primarily by a cuticle that is molted. Within the major clade are 2 subclades (Nematoda + Nematomorpha; Kinorhyncha + Loricifera + Priapulida). Using morphological data, the chief issues remaining to be resolved are placement of Gastrotricha and Gnathostomulida, and evolution of the pseudocoel. No analysis based solely on morphological data has so far produced a tree congruent with those based on molecular data. Nevertheless, there is a general consensus that (1) the pseudocoel is of little phylogenetic significance and (2) the pseudocoelomates are probably polyphyletic.
10.2307/3226976|The symbiotic water mites Unionicola formosa and U. foili are sibling species from the host mussels Pyganodon cataracta and Utterbackia imbecillis, respectively. Cellulose acetate electrophoresis was used to examine the population genetics of these sibling species in order to determine the degree of genetic divergence. A total of four populations of U. formosa and six populations of U. foili were scored for 19 presumptive enzyme loci. Genetic variation among all mite populations was low, but genetic heterozygosity and polymorphism were greater among populations of U. formosa. We found a high degree of genetic differentiation between populations of U. formosa and U. foili. Populations of these species were fixed for different alleles at three loci (MDH 2, MPI 2, and PEP) and exhibited significant allele frequency heterogeneity at 83% of their polymorphic loci. Genetic divergence among these species populations also was reflected in the pairwise values of Nei's genetic identity and genetic distance. Coefficients of genetic identity were high among populations of the same species, but were substantially lower when populations from the two species were compared. A dendrogram of the distance values generated two distinct groups separated by a distance of 0.177, corresponding to populations of U. formosa and U. foili. The results of this study provide evidence that mite populations from P. cataracta and U. imbecillis are reproductively isolated sibling species of Unionicola, and complement other studies suggesting that host specificity is important in limiting gene flow among populations of symbionts.
10.2307/3226986| Bathynerita naticoidea, a bathyal neritid prosobranch endemic to oil and gas seeps in the Gulf of Mexico, produces filiform eusperms ~90 m long. The eusperm is of the introsperm type, typical of invertebrates with internal fertilization, and they are similar in structure to those of shallow-water neritimorph taxa. The head of the sperm is ~26 m long and consists of an elongate tubular nucleus (~24 m long X 0.2 m diameter) and acrosome (~2 m long), which sits on a subacrosomal plate. The anteriorly positioned acrosome is invaginated posteriorly, with the subacrosomal space containing an axial rod. The mid-piece, which is ~35 m long, contains two elongate mitochondria, housed in a cytoplasmic sheath. the inner membrane of which is periodically thickened. The centriolar complex is housed in the intra-nuclear canal, 1 m from the anterior of the nucleus. Thus the axoneme penetrates most of the length of the nucleus. Associated with the first outer doublets of the axoneme is a rod-like structure which runs the length of the mid-piece and for part of the tail. Unlike most other neritids, the axoneme of B. naticoidea is not bent at the junction of the mid-piece and tailpiece, and the tail is not terminally expanded. Whilst the sperm of B. naticoidea has many structural similarities to those of other Neritidae, the simple terminal end and more elongate mid-piece rod suggests that Bathynerita may be more closely related to the Phenacolepadidae than the Neritidae. Spermiogenesis is as described for shallow water neritids. Associated with the developing spermatids are Sertoli cells, the structure of which is similar to that described for other gastropods. 
10.2307/3226919| Measures of internal fluid flow have the potential to illuminate energy allocation and life-history variation in colonial invertebrates. Using video microscopy and digital image analysis, fluid flow was characterized in hydractiniid hydroids at three regions of the "dead end" stolons located at the periphery of colonies. Outflow begins at an initially high rate (range 50-800 m/s). As the stolon fills, the outflow slows and then stops, and a period of backflow (<100 s), having a relatively low initial rate, follows. Backflow rate increases (less than or equal to outflow rate) as the stolon contracts. The cycle ends with the stolon lumen fully closed and the flow rate again equal to zero. A proximal-distal flow rate gradient is apparent over the 3 regions examined along peripheral stolons. Comparisons of peripheral stolons over several contraction cycles show that Hydractinia symbiolongicarpus has shorter and wider stolons, wider lumen diameters, shorter flow-cycle periods, and similar flow rates relative to Podocoryne carnea. In H. symbiolongicarpus, a large portion of the variation in stolon length correlates with the examined flow parameters. Surprisingly, this is not the case in P. carnea. Further, the generally larger lumen diameters of H. symbiolongicarpus are not associated with higher flow rates as would be expected if pressure and tissue resistance is similar between the species. This suggests that these hydroids may regulate fluid flow at different magnitudes, or in accordance with their distinct physiological optimums, or both. 
3227251|Four copepod species of the genus Asterocheres (A. echinicola, A. latus, A. suberitis and A. complexus) are recorded for the first time as associated with Mediterranean sponges of the classes Calcarea and Demospongiae (orders Dictyoceratida, Dendroceratida, and Poecilosclerida). Individuals of A. suberitis are described for the first time as inhabiting sponges other than Suberites domuncula. The copepods seemed to use their trunk to suck the material (cuticles or excreted cells) produced at the sponge periphery (ectosome), which indicates that their feeding habits are similar to those observed in species of the same genus that feed on exfoliated tissues of echinoderms. In the laboratory, copepods fed on young sponges (rhagons) of the species Crambe crambe, Cacospongia mollior, and Dysidea avara without reducing the rhagon biomass. In contrast, rhagons of the species Haliclona sp., Hymedesmia spp., and Phorbas tenacior were consumed and their biomass reduced. This may be because the latter group does not produce external proteinaceous material. Copepod offspring were continuously released (~6 nauplii every 48 h) and the larval stages were capable of limited swimming. We found significantly more copepods over the surface of the sponges than inside them. Copepod abundance was positively correlated with the sponge surface area while not with the sponge biomass. These results indicate that the copepods live preferentially over the sponge surface and that their abundance is surface-area dependent. The behavioral traits described here indicate that the interactions between asterocherid species and sponges are worthy of future study.
3701489|We examined the cnidomes (total complement of nematocysts) of medusae of the zooxanthellate and azooxanthellate jellyfishes Phyllorhiza punctata and Catostylus mosaicus (Rhizostomeae, Scyphozoa), and compared the assemblage of Zooplankton captured on the oral arms of each species to determine whether differences in the types or amount of zooplankton captured were consistent with possible differences in the cnidomes. Cnidomes were described using light and scanning electron microscopy. Each species had a distinct cnidome and, in general, specimens of P. punctata appeared to have far fewer nematocysts than those of C. mosaicus. Four types of nematocysts were identified in medusae of C. mosaicus; 2 types of holotrichous isorhizae, rhopaloids, and birhopaloids. In C. mosaicus, the oral arms and bell margins possessed all of these types, but the cnidomes of the 2 regions differed in relative abundances and sizes of isorhizae and rhopaloids. Five types of nematocysts were identified in medusae of P. punctata, although not all types were found in all specimens. Round holotrichous isorhizae were found only in the bell, while oval holotrichous isorhizae, rhopaloids of 2 distinct size ranges, and birhopaloids were found in the bell and oral arms. Cnidomes of the bell and oral arms in specimens of P. punctata also differed in the relative abundance and sizes of oval isorhizae and rhopaloids. Although there were clear differences in the overall cnidomes and absolute abundances of nematocysts in each species, the oral arms (feeding appendages) of specimens of both C. mosaicus and P. punctata had similar types and relative abundances of nematocysts. Zooplankton sampled from the oral arms of each species showed that both species preyed predominantly on copepod nauplii and larvae of gastropods and bivalves. Medusae of C. mosaicus captured ~10 x more gastropod larvae and 5 x more bivalve larvae than those of P. punctata. Specimens of P. punctata captured approximately twice as many copepod nauplii as those of C. mosaicus. Differences in the relative abundance of types of Zooplankton captured by each species could not be adequately explained by differences in the cnidomes of the oral arms.
3227174|The ultrastructural features of the ovary and oogenesis have been described in 6 species of patellid limpets from South Africa. The ovary is a complex organ that is divided radially into numerous compartments or lacunae by plate-like, blind-ended, hollow trabeculae that extend from the outer wall of the ovary to its central lumen. Trabeculae are composed of outer epithelial cells, intermittent smooth muscle bands, and extensive connective tissue. Oocytes arise within the walls of the trabeculae and progressively bulge outward into the ovarian lumen during growth while partially surrounded by squamous follicle cells. During early vitellogenesis, the follicle cells lift from the surface of the underlying oocytes and microvilli appear in the perivitelline space. Follicle cells restrict their contact with the oocytes to digitate foot processes that form desmosomes with the oolamina. When vitellogenesis is initiated, the trabecular epithelial cells hypertrophy and become proteosynthetically active. Yolk synthesis involves the direct incorporation of extraoocytic precursors from the lumen of the trabeculae (hemocoel) into yolk granules via receptor-mediated endocytosis. Lipid droplets arise de novo and Golgi complexes synthesize cortical granules that form a thin band beneath the oolamina. A fibrous jelly coat forms between the vitelline envelope and the overlying follicle cells in all species.
10.2307/3226841|The ultrastructural features of the anal papillae from fourth-instar larvae of the midge Choronomus tentans are consistent with their dual function of transporting ions into the hemocoel and hemolymph macromolecules towards the cuticle. The thin cuticle of anal papillae exhibits epicuticular grooves containing electron-dense material. In AgNO
3227192|Settlement timing and differential settlement for the larval stage of the green sea urchin, Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis, in the southern Gulf of Maine was studied during the summer of 1996. Settlement densities on astroturf panels were highest in June and early July (13 to 37 m
4124905| We report the results of a laboratory study of the aestivation of Hormogaster elisae to determine the nature of the inactive period (diapause or quiescence) and to evaluate the influence of soil moisture, temperature, season, and earthworm body weight on the process. The results showed that specimens of H. elisae underwent facultative diapause-paradia-pause-characterized by the construction of aestivation chambers in which the animal coils up and its activity decreases. Soil moisture appeared to be the most important environmental factor involved in the onset of aestivation. Temperature and time of year also had some influence, but earthworm body weight appeared to have none. Aestivating earthworms showed a decrease of 41.6% in mean body weight. Once replaced in soil with 20% moisture content, they took 6.4  3.1 d to exit their chambers and another 6.5  3.6 d to recover their initial body weight. 
3227165|Within many phylogenetic assemblages, a pattern of domination has been observed: one or a few clades have had many more speciation events or fewer extinctions than other clades in a particular assemblage. We investigated this phenomenon in the polychaete annelids. Polychaetes comprise ~9000 described species classified in over 70 families and exhibit a great variety of life history strategies. Our goal was to test whether diverse polychaete families are characterized by species with short generation times, high reproductive output, small body size, or with planktotrophic larval development. Each of these factors has been advanced as cause for high diversity in other taxonomic assemblages. Here, we establish that the diversification pattern of polychaete families is non-random, but the data collected show no significant correlations between familial diversity and several life history traits including age at first reproduction, life span, body size, fecundity, and egg size. Pairwise comparisons of sister families do not reveal any trends between familial diversity and any of the life history traits. The great variability of life history traits within polychaete families may explain the lack of significant results; perhaps no trends are seen because polychaete life history traits cannot be generalized at the family level.
10.2307/3227042|The ability of the antarctic pteropod Clione antarctica (Mollusca: Gastropoda) to synthesize sex steroids from radiolabeled steroid precursors was examined in individuals sampled near the end of their observed reproductive season from McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. The precursors,
40981237|The sexual system of the semi-terrestrial shrimp Merguia rhizophorae is described, along with natural history observations on this unusual caridean. Individuals of M. rhizophorae in the Bocas del Toro Archipelago, Panama, were found occupying fossilized coral terraces in the upper and mid-intertidal zones, inhabiting caves and crevices, in and out of water. These fossilized coral terraces represent a new habitat for this species, which was previously reported only from mangrove swamps. Males, which made up 65% of the studied population, were smaller than females on average. No small juvenile females were observed, but transitional individuals having the characteristics of both males (gonopores) and females (ovaries) were observed in the population. These data suggest that individuals of M. rhizophorae are protandric hermaphrodites. Logistic regression indicated that the carapace length at which 50% of the individuals change sex is 4.89 mm. The abundance of shrimps at the study site was low. Shrimps were usually solitary, but occasionally observed in groups of  5 individuals. Shrimps were commonly observed walking while out of water, and in some cases, emerged shrimps jumped vigorously, presumably to avoid capture by the researcher or by predatory crabs. Additional studies on the reproductive biology and the behavioral ecology of members of this genus and of members of the closely related families Barbouridae and Lysmatidae will aid in understanding the evolutionary origin and the adaptive value of gender expression patterns in shrimps.
3227202|The biology of Paryphanta busbyi watti, an endangered carnivorous land snail, was studied mostly by following large juvenile and adult snails with harmonic radar. The snails are nocturnally active and most (79%) hide during the day under leaf litter or in dense vegetation. Fecal analysis showed that the diet is primarily earthworms, but some cannibalism of smaller snails occurs. Empty shells appear to be an additional source of dietary calcium. Mating occurred most frequently between April and July. Mating snails stayed together for 4-7 days, and each pair reversed their positions at least twice. Four snails were first found mating 1511240 d after they acquired adult shells, and 7 snails were observed mating a second time after 66-298 d. We found 8 nests and observed 6 snails ovipositing; 5 snails laid eggs in holes they dug and one laid eggs in a crevice between rocks. In 2 instances, oviposition was recorded 52 and 140 d after mating. Snails were estimated to lay on average ~17.5 eggs per year in 3-5 clutches. Most oviposition was observed in August/September, but some occurred between November and February. Of the snails that died, pigs killed 13.6% and humans inadvertently killed another 13.6%. Other snails died from unknown causes mostly during the drier and warmer months, from November to April. This large land snail survives in the presence of introduced predators, but some life history traits could predispose it to a rapid decline in numbers if new predators arrive.
3701452|Realism, resolution, and portrayal of spatial relationships are three conditions for iconic representations in formal taxonomic descriptions. Hand drawing is a painstaking and time-consuming technique. The environmental scanning electron microscope (ESEM) is an alternative that can provide detailed images without damaging the specimen, thus allowing it to be used for further study either in light microscopy or molecular analysis. In this work, we evaluate the suitability of ESEM for basic taxonomic study with specimens of two arthropods groups: water mites and bathynelids. The ESEM provides enough resolution to classify even to the species level. Different kinds of curatorial adhesive strips were used with satisfactory results. We foresee that the ESEM will be a common taxonomic tool in the near future.
40206189|Two new families of amphiboloid gastropods were recently erected, largely due to the very distinct structural and functional configurations of their distal reproductive systems. The spermovipositors in monaulic Salinator spp. (Amphibolidae) are functionally unique in Gastropoda, and it is suggested that they perform both oviposition and sperm transfer/receipt during non-reciprocal copulation. In contrast, the remarkably complex penises in syntremous diaulic Phallomedusa spp. (Phallomedusidae) are used exclusively for sperm transfer during reciprocal copulation. The phallomedusid penis is structurally unique among gastropods because it is protruded by pivoting around a fixed point rather than extending by eversion, and bears elaborate appendages to improve traction during copulation. The complex and functionally ambiguous distal reproductive structures of Maningrida (Maningrididae) differ from other amphibolids in the arrangement and structure of their prostate and copulatory structures. Genital armature of varying complexity occurs in all amphiboloidean families. There may be a correlation between the absence of a long-term sperm storage structure (spermatheca) and the evolutionary diversification of copulatory structures in these gastropods.
10.2307/3226911|Nucleotide sequences of the region extending from the D3 to the D6 expansion segments of the 28S rDNA gene were used to reconstruct evolutionary relationships within the Platyhelminthes. Neighbor-joining and parsimony analyses of representatives of most major platyhelminth taxa revealed a basal Catenulida, a monophyletic Acoelomorpha, a sister-group relationship of Macrostomorpha and Polycladida (59% of bootstrap replications), and monophyletic Tricladida. We found no evidence of a taxon Seriata (p=.0001); however, the paraphyletic status of the Proseriata needs further investigation. Although Neodermata appeared as a monophyletic group, Monogenea was paraphyletic (p<.0001), thus not supporting the taxon Cercomeromorpha. Monopisthocotylean Monogenea was the most basal taxon among the Neodermata, and Udonella sp. consistently grouped with the Monopisthocotylea. Other relationships within the Neodermata showed Trematoda as a monophyletic taxon and, among its members, Rugogaster hydrolagi was identified as an aspidogastrean. The taxa Cestodaria (Amphilinidae and Gyrocotylidae) and Eucestoda were both supported; however, constraining these 2 clades into a monophyletic Cestoda resulted in a significantly longer tree (p=.0303). We tentatively conclude that the immediate sister group of Neodermata is Fecampiida. But because of contradictory results of the constraint analyses, we cannot exclude the possibility that the sister group to Neodermata is a taxon containing many neoophoran turbellarians (e.g., Rhabdocoela and Tricladida).
25623045|The majority of tagged colonies of Pseudoplexaura porosa in Bermuda were reproductive over 2 months in the summer. They spawned 5-8 d after the full moon, with a peak on the sixth day, similar to colonies in Panama. The months of spawning were August and September in 1998, but July and August in 1999 and 2000. This temporal difference between the months of spawning corresponded to inter-annual variations in seawater temperature profiles. Initial gamete development each year occurred only when the daily mean seawater temperature during the month before spawning exceeded 27C. There was a significant positive relationship between reproductive effort (gamete volume) of colonies and rising seawater temperature in the month preceding spawning; this was true for both the initial and the second spawning months. The end of the reproductive season each year was triggered by the decline in seawater temperature past the summer maximum. The duration of the reproductive season of conspecifics at the central Caribbean reef of Panama is 2 months longer than in Bermuda. This can be explained by the smaller annual temperature range at the lower latitude and the earlier onset of temperatures favorable for gamete development. Fecundity estimates for members of P. porosa (mean oocyte and spermary densities) in Bermuda were lower than for conspecifics in Panama. The shorter reproductive season in Bermuda, in addition to the lower fecundity of colonies, indicates that reproduction in P. porosa is compromised at this high latitude reef.
10.2307/3227046|Accepted explanations cannot explain lophophore protrusion in Cellaria diffusa and C. bassleri, whose apertural structure differs markedly from that of most other cheilostomes. The sclerotized portion of the operculum is overlain by a hypostegal coelom. Typical parietal muscles are lacking. Lophophore protrusion is accomplished by muscular contraction: opercular divaricators cause the operculum to pivot on proximally located hinge teeth (cardelles) and simultaneously pull down on a pair of longitudinal cuticular ridges (depressor bars) on the epitheca. The resulting depression of the epitheca causes fluid to pass from the hypostegal coelom to the perigastric cavity around the proximolateral edges of the operculum. Both species possess well-developed setigerous collars, so the location of the vestibule can be definitely established. The vestibular roof is not involved in operculum formation. The operculum appears not to have been derived from the operculum of simple cheilostomes such as Membranipora, but rather from a cuticular extension of the cryptocyst. The apparent homology of the divaricators to opesiular muscles suggests derivation from cheilostome ancestors with extensive cryptocysts and opesiules. Apertural morphologies are seldom studied in adequate detail, so it is unclear how many cheilostomes share this mechanism or if Cellaria-like ancestors gave rise to any ascophoran cheilostomes.
3227127|To determine whether increased water motion affects patterns of regeneration in the subtidal burrowing brittlestar Hemipholis elongata (phylum Echinodermata), individuals were subjected to laboratory-controlled turbulence conditions. Half of each replicate aquarium experienced oscillatory (wave-like) turbulence while the other half had no turbulence. Individual brittlestars from which arm-tips had been removed were allowed to burrow and to regenerate. Regenerated arm-tip length and weight were tested for differences between organisms in calm and turbulent conditions. Regenerated arm-tip length differed significantly between control and treatment, but arm-tip dry weight and skeleton/tissue ratio of regenerated arm-tips did not. To quantify plasticity in the skeleton, 15 morphological measurements made on the proximal face of vertebral ossicles (using scanning electron microscopy) were integrated as an index of overall ossicle size. We found a significant difference in the overall size index of the vertebral ossicles between treatments, but could not determine which of the measurements contributed most to the difference. The results indicate that regeneration in H. elongata is a complex process that can be modified by environmental conditions.
3701511| Protease activity in the midgut gland, gastric chamber, and gastric juice from the crabs Callinectes bellicosus and Callinectes arcuatus was characterized by several methods, confirming that the composition of digestive proteases is the same in the gastric juice and the midgut gland. Gastric juice was suitable for the identification and characterization of the proteinases trypsin and chymotrypsin. Such enzymes were presented as isotrypsins and isochymotrypsins. Proteinase composition evaluated by SDS-PAGE and substrate-SDS-PAGE showed differences between species, but not between gender. Proteinases were thermostable at 40-50C for 1 h and showed maximum activity at pH 6-8, making the use of digestive proteinases for evaluations of protein digestibility by the pHstat method possible. We propose using gastric juice as a source of digestive enzymes for in vitro studies of enzymes in digestibility assays and characterization procedures. 
40981233|The atrochid rotifer, Acyclus inquietus, is a sedentary predator that lives within the colonies of its prey, the rotifer Sinantherina socialis. After larvae infiltrate and become associated with the colony, they secrete a permanent gelatinous tube and undergo metamorphosis to the adult stage. We followed settlement and metamorphosis using bright-field microscopy to document specific larval behaviors after eclosion, and used epifluorescence and confocal microscopy of phalloidin-labeled specimens to visualize some of the morphological changes that occur during metamorphosis. Upon eclosin, larvae possess paired eyespots and a ciliated corona that functions strictly in locomotion. After leaving the parent's gelatinous tube, larvae eventually settle on unoccupied colonies of S. socialis or on other substrates if colonies are unavailable. Settlement involves a period of gliding among colony members before attachment with the foot and the secretion of a gelatinous tube. After settlement, there is a drastic reconfiguration of the corona that involves loss of the eyespots, loss of the coronal cilia, and the formation of the cup-shaped infundibulum, a deep depression in the anterior of the head that leads to the mouth. The development of the infundibulum involves the expansion of tissues around the mouth and is accompanied by a reorientation of the underlying musculature that supplies the infundibulum and allows its use in prey capture. The arrangement of the muscles in the trunk and foot regions, which contain outer circular (complete and incomplete) and inner longitudinal bands, remains unchanged between ontogenetic stages, and reflects the condition characteristic of other rotifers.
3227199|Svenzea zeai, abundant on many deep Caribbean fore-reef habitats but of uncertain systematic position within the Demospongiae, is closely examined histologically and cytologically for evidence of its phylogenetic relationship beyond the traditional analysis of gross morphology and skeletal structure. We document that S. zeai is a bacteriosponge containing substantial quantities of unicellular photosynthetic and autotrophic microbes; that the most abundant cell type is an unusual cell with refractile granules that only few species share and whose composition and function are still enigmatic; and that it produces the largest-by a factor of 3-embryos and larvae recorded in the phylum Porifera. A combination of characters such as the granular cells, ciliary pattern, and aspects of larval shape and behavior are comparable with those of Scopalina ruetzleri, family Dictyonellidae, a prominent member of the Caribbean mangrove community. These results support our earlier decision to establish Svenzea as a new genus in Dictyonellidae to accommodate its unprecedented skeletal structure, styles in isodictyal reticulation.
4124891| The reproductive cycle of the entocommensal nemertean Malacobdella arrokeana inhabiting Panopea abbreviata from San Jos Gulf, Patagonia, Argentina, and the nemerte-an-host relationship were investigated. The mature nemertean population showed a sex ratio of 1:0.64, with females predominating. The number of individuals of M. arrokeana per host varied from 1-60 individuals (meanSD = 3.79.4mm). Different stages of gonadic development were observed in individual nemerteans. Spawning peaks occurred during late summer and early spring. Sexually mature individuals of both sexes were present year round, possibly indicative of a continuous breeding period. Our results suggest that M. arrokeana has no cannibalistic habits and confirm its entocommensal symbiosis with P. abbreviata. 
40206232|Many hermaphroditic species are promiscuous, have a sperm digesting organ and an allosperm storage organ (i.e., spermatheca) with multiple compartments (i.e., spermathecal tubules) providing opportunities for sperm competition. The relative paternity of a sperm donor drives the evolution of mating behaviors that allow manipulation of the sperm receiver's reproductive behavior or physiology. We studied the relationship between sperm transfer, sperm storage, sperm digestion, and copulation duration in the hermaphroditic land snail Succinea putris, in which an active individual mates on top of a passive individual. Specifically, we examined (i) whether the entire copulation duration was required to complete reciprocal sperm transfer, (ii) sperm transfer patterns and their relationship with activity role, and (iii) the timing of sperm storage and sperm digestion. We found that reciprocal sperm transfer was completed within the first 5 h of copulation, which is ~2-3 h before the end of copulation. Sperm transfer was mainly sequential, meaning that one individual donated all his ejaculate before its partner started to reciprocate. The initiation of sperm transfer did not depend on the activity role. The presence of allosperm in the spermatheca before sperm transfer suggests that individuals remate before they are allosperm depleted. No sperm was digested during copulation but sperm digestion took place 0-72 h after copulation. Our results suggest that contact mate guarding is a likely manipulation strategy in S. putris, because partners cannot immediately remate. In addition, staying in copula after sperm transfer is completed seems to prevent the immediate digestion of sperm and therefore may promote sperm displacement and allosperm storage.
3227155|Anna Meyer published her first (and apparently last) scientific paper in 1913, in which she reported, in part, on the organization of the renogenital systems in the "Diotocardia" and "Monotocardia," and the evolutionary signal present in this character suite. Meyer's phylogeny broke with conventional wisdom of her time and she reconstructed early gastropod evolution as a sequence of branching events rather than a continuous grade. Her phylogeny was ignored because it did not correspond to the well-ordered grades that came to dominate gastropod systematics for over 75 years, but her schematics of renogenital configurations have been featured in the literature for over 55 years, sometimes without citation and redrawn to show a different set of relationships. We hope that the translation of her paper from German into English (http://www.ucmp.berkeley.edu/collections/archdat.html) will make her contribution more accessible to workers.
40206227|The phylogenetic position of Polygordius is still pending; relationships with either Opheliidae or with Saccocirrus are the most favored hypotheses. The present study of Polygordius appendiculatus was designed to look for morphological characters supporting either of these two hypotheses. The homology of the anterior appendages, and the structure of the central nervous system and nuchal organ all required clarification; we also examined whether photoreceptor-like sense organs exist in adults. From their innervation pattern, it is likely that the anterior appendages represent palps. They lack structures typical of palps in Canalipalpata, such as musculature and coelomic cavities, which would be expected in the case of a saccocirrid relationship. Thirteen photoreceptor-like sense organs were found in front of the brain, the only structures resembling photoreceptors in adults of P. appendiculatus. These multicellular sense organs comprise a supportive cell and several sensory cells enclosing an extracellular cavity. There are three different types of sensory cells: one rhabdomeric and two ciliary. These sensory cells are combined differently into three forms of sense organ: the most frequent uses all three types of sensory cells, the second possesses one rhabdomeric and one ciliary cell type, and the third has two types of ciliary sensory cells. Whereas similar sensory cells are frequently found in various polychaetes, their combination in one sensory organ is unique to Polygordius and is considered to represent an autapomorphy. The nuchal organs exhibit features typical of polychaetes; there are no specific features in common with Saccocirrus. Instead, the covering structures show obvious similarities to Opheliidae, as can also be found in the central nervous system. Altogether, the current observations do not contradict a relationship with opheliids but provide no evidence of a relationship with Saccocirrus as has been found in certain molecular analyses, and thus currently leave the phylogenetic position of Polygordius unresolved.
10.2307/3226931|The study of feeding behavior in aquatic insects requires integrating a number of techniques. Light and scanning electron microscopy give three-dimensional images of the feeding apparatus needed to understand their structure, while cinematography allows frame-by-frame analysis of movements of the food collecting organs necessary to explain their function. Videography is used in two ways: to provide a record of feeding over time and, with microscopy, to show patterns of flow around the insects. This facilitates the construction of catalogs of feeding behaviors and aids in the interpretation of relationships between functional morphology and hydrodynamics. Experiments are then conducted to determine which foods are ingested from those available in the environment. We use examples of investigations on black fly larvae and mosquito larvae to illustrate this integrated approach to the study of feeding in suspension-feeding aquatic insects.
10.2307/3226974|Aggregations of the sessile, serpulid tubeworm Hydroides elegans are commonly encountered on hard surfaces in Pearl Harbor, Hawai'i, and a bio-organic film has been found to be one requisite for larval settlement in this species. To determine if additional pre- or post-settlement factors influence larval distribution, we recorded settlement frequency, location, and survival on biofilmed settlement plates, either unoccupied as controls, or occupied by live juvenile or adult worms, tubes of dead adult worms, or plastic mimics of adult worm tubes. Early post-settlement mortality was extremely low in all trials (< 1.0 %), and thus not responsible for structuring populations of H. elegans. The hypothesis that larvae settle preferentially on or near conspecific individuals (i.e., gregariously) was falsified: larvae did not settle faster (laboratory) or in greater numbers (field) on surfaces already occupied by H. elegans or their tubes. In the laboratory, settling larvae of H. elegans did not actively select crevices created where adult worm tubes or worm-tube mimics intersected with the substratum; in the field, however, there was significantly more settlement in tube crevices than expected by chance. Because this pattern appeared only in moving water, it probably results from hydrodynamics. In flowing water, larvae are entrained in eddies shed on the leeward side of roughness elements, such as the tubes of adult worms or their mimics, and attach there if these sites are otherwise acceptable (i.e., biofilmed). A similar pattern of enhanced settlement in crevices adjacent to tubes occurred on the plates with juvenile worms on the last day of field trial 1, when the diameter of their tubes (0.6 mm) was large enough to create eddies capable of entraining conspecific larvae. Dense aggregations of H. elegans found on hard surfaces in bays and estuaries most likely result from passive deposition of larvae in crevices beside tubes of conspecific individuals, followed by selective attachment in these locations if the bio-organic film is acceptable.
10.2307/3226876|The glandular sensory organ found in representatives of all genera of Stilbonematinae (Nematoda, Desmodoridae) so far described was investigated by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy. It is composed of one type A and one type B glandular cell, one monociliated sensory cell, and a hollow seta. Whereas the Stilbonematinae have ectosymbiotic bacteria coating the cuticle, for an outgroup comparison three non-symbiotic species belonging to three genera from the closely related subfamilies Desmodorinae and Spiriniinae were chosen. In these three species the glandular sensory organ is composed of one type A glandular cell, one biciliated sensory cell, and a hollow seta. The consistent structure of a highly complex organ such as the glandular sensory organ with one type B glandular cell and one monociliated sensory cell suggests that the Stilbonematinae are monophyletic in spite of their otherwise diverse morphology.
10.2307/3226950|A survey of the terrestrial tardigrades inhabiting soil, algae, lichens, and mosses was conducted during the austral summer of 1990 at the Australian Research Station at Mawson and other localities on the Mawson Coast. Five genera and six species of tardigrades were recovered: Echiniscus jenningsi, Diphascon sanae, Hypsibius antarcticus, Macrobiotus blocki, Macrobiotus stuckenbergi, and Milnesium tardigradum. Males have seldom been reported in the genus Echiniscus, but constituted about 40% of the population of E. jenningsi. Such a high concentration of males suggests a sexually reproducing population of E. jenningsi on the Mawson Coast. Patterns, obstacles, and strategies of dispersal, reproduction, and survival are discussed relative to the harsh, sparse, and insular environment of East Antarctica.
10.2307/3227023|Cells of a symbiotic prokaryote, Prochloron sp., in colonies of a tropical ascidian, Lissoclinum punctatum, occur not only outside but also inside cells of the host. Cells of these photosynthetic symbionts of ascidians have previously been reported only extracellularly. The intracellular and extracellular symbionts do not differ morphologically. The host cells carrying the symbionts are freely distributed in the ascidian tunic. They probably endocytize the symbionts and then retain them within a vacuole. Since the intracellular prokaryotes showed no evidence of rejection or degeneration, this association between tunic phagocytes of L. punctatum and cells of Prochloron sp. seems to constitute a stable symbiosis, comparable to the postulated ancestral association between heterotrophic cells and the photosynthetic prokaryotes which gave rise to chloroplasts.
4621918|Paramecium bursaria, a freshwater protozoan, typically harbors hundreds of symbiotic algae (Chlorella sp.) in its cytoplasm. The relationship between host paramecia and symbiotic algae is stable and mutually beneficial in natural environments. We recently collected an aposymbiotic strain of P. bursaria. Infection experiments revealed that the natural aposymbiotic strain (Ysa2) showed unstable symbiosis with Chlorella sp. The algae aggregated at the posterior region of the host, resulting in aposymbiotic cell production after cell division. Cross-breeding analyses were performed to determine the heritability of the aposymbiotic condition. In crosses of Ysa2 with strains of P. bursaria, F1 progeny were able to form stable symbioses with Chlorella sp. However, unstable symbiosis, resembling Ysa2 infection, occurred in some F2 progeny of sibling crosses between symbiotic F1 clones. Infection experiments using aposymbiotic F2 cells showed that these F2 subclones have limited ability to reestablish the symbiosis. These results indicate that the maintenance of stable symbiosis is genetically controlled and heritable, and that Ysa2 is a mutant lacking the mechanisms to establish stable symbiosis with Chlorella sp.
10.2307/3227034|Because the morphology of the cuticular scales of spiders is extremely variable both within and between families, any study attempting to use cuticular scales as a systematic character must first have a formal definition that differentiates scales from other types of setae. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the characters used previously in the literature to distinguish cuticular scales from other types of setae and, if necessary, to provide a new, comprehensive definition for this setal type in spiders. The results of our SEM survey of the surface morphology of the scales of 23 species of spiders representing 10 families do not support the morphology of the socket as a reliable character for distinguishing scales from other types of setae. Our results indicate that cuticular scales should be defined as flattened setae that have a pedicel bent so that the scale overlays the surface of the cuticle. Our results also suggest that the urticating hairs of theraphosid spiders should not be considered to be a type of cuticular scale. Instead, we propose the recognition of three main types of scales: lanceolate, spatulate, and plumose. In addition to qualitative comparisons, we measured and compared the cuticular scales for several species and found that differences in scale width were directly related to the morphotype of the scales being examined.
10.2307/3226938|The location of Arg-Phe-amide (RFamide)-like peptides in dense-cored vesicles in neurons of the planula larva of the marine hydrozoan Pennaria tiarella was shown using immunogold electron microscopy. Expression of the peptide was detected as early as 16 h after fertilization. Gold-labeled dense-cored vesicles ranging from 80 nm to 140 nm in diameter were found in both cell bodies and neurites of ganglion cells (non-ciliated bipolar and multipolar neurons found at the base of the ectoderm just above the mesoglea) located in the aboral (anterior) and middle regions of the planulae. Within the neurites, the labeled dense-cored vesicles were found in distinct clusters all along their lengths in close association with the cell membranes, a distribution which suggests that release of the peptide in planulae probably does not occur at specialized synaptic sites. Labeled cells also contained unlabeled dense-cored vesicles, unlabeled clear vesicles (60 nm to 100 nm in diameter), and unlabeled electron-dense droplets (100 nm to 240 nm in diameter). Localization of RFamide peptides to dense-cored vesicles of specific neurons in early planulae is significant because of growing evidence on the role of these substances in morphogenesis.
3227221|The fine structure of the bursa copulatrix of the virgin snails has been compared with that of mated snails. One of the noticeable changes after mating is an increase in the number of the Golgi and the secretory vesicles. Since some of the vesicles react positively for acid phosphatase it is suggested that this enzyme activity increases following mating. The bursa lumen of the virgin snail contains gel-like materials devoid of spermatozoa, however, following mating, the lumen is full of semen containing live spermatozoa and bacteria. The source of bacteria in the lumen is not known. Acid phosphatase activity is significantly higher in the luminal content of mated snails than in the virgin snails. The activity is higher in the lumen than in the epithelial cells, suggesting that the enzyme is secreted into the lumen where it is utilized for extracellular degradation of spermatozoa. Following mating, the spermatozoa are motile in the lumen of the bursa for ~3-7 d, but become immobile and finally undergo extra-cellular digestion so that intact spermatozoa are not recognizable by day 10. The use of castrated snails in mating experiments suggest that individuals of Helisoma duryi reproduce by cross fertilization and that the bursa may act as the holding organ from where the spermatozoa are periodically transported to the carrefour over ~7 d. At day 10 following mating, however, autosperms appear in the hermaphroditic duct awaiting the next mating.
23016255|The endemic Hawaiian gastropod Smaragdia bryanae is a specialized marine herbivore that uses the endemic seagrass Halophila hawaiiana as both food and habitat. These small neritids, their grazing scars, and their egg capsules are found year-round on seagrass leaves, where they feed on protoplast contents released as the sharp outer-lateral teeth of the snail's radula puncture leaf epidermal cells; the contents of these cells are likely swept into the mouth by the long, wispy cusps of the marginal teeth. Structural differences from the typical neritid radula include elongated outer-lateral teeth with two sharply pointed cusps, delicate marginal teeth reduced in both size and number, and a compressed central section. Snails grazed on leaves of H. hawaiiana steadily in laboratory culture, and grew and reproduced on this diet. In laboratory choice experiments, snails did not graze the thalli of any of six macroalgal species growing near seagrass where snails were collected, and strongly preferred occupying seagrass. Seagrass samples from five field sites on Oahu and one on Maui showed from 30% to 94% of leaves damaged, with 11% of the total leaf standing area grazed. Snails are smaller (mean length 2.740.32 mm, mean width 2.150.17 mm, n = 217) than the width of the leaves of H. hawaiiana (mean 3.241.26 mm, n = 790). The snails associate constantly with their host, despite the scattered distribution, small patch size, and variability of the seagrass resource, demonstrated by a sevenfold range in the leaf area index (mean 1.110.61 cm 2 blade surface cm 2 , n = 31) among samples. Damage on grazed leaves (mean 8.217.05 mm 2 per leaf, or 16.5% of leaf surface, n = 511) is concentrated in the apical and central epithelia between the midrib and the marginal veins, where snails may access cells with thinner walls and few fibers. Details of the grazing interaction between these extant species in Hawai'i shed light on the ecological specialization of members of the genus Smaragdia to seagrasses over geological time.
10.2307/3226889| In the isopod crustaceans Idotea wosnesenskii and I. resecata, the first three pairs of abdominal appendages (pleopods) are locomotory, and the remaining two pairs are respiratory. We investigated the mechanical and morphometric properties of the pleopods in order to study constraints that may influence this division of labor. Measurements of the flexural (bending) stiffness of the pleopods demonstrated that the podites of the first and second pairs of pleopods were generally an order of magnitude stiffer than the fourth and fifth pleopods; the third pleopods were variable in stiffness. Anterior pleopods tend to be slightly thicker and have thicker cuticles, but these morphological differences do not entirely account for differences in flexural stiffness among pleopods; there must also be differences in modulus of elasticity (E). Estimates of E based on these stiffness data yield values in the middle of the range typical of arthropod cuticles. The differences in cuticle thickness and material properties between the anterior and posterior pleopods may help explain why the swimming pleopods do not make a significant contribution to gas exchange. 
4621888|The hypotheses that the sheltering behavior of four species of terrestrial isopods varies in relation to differences in their morphological, physiological, and behavioral adaptations to the terrestrial environment were tested using artificial refugia together with independent estimates of density to derive an index of sheltering activity. (1) Porcellio scaber sheltered significantly more than Platyarthrus hoffmannseggi, Armadillidium vulgare, or Philoscia muscorum, which sheltered the least. (2) There was a decline in the sheltering index (SI) for all four species after the breeding season, continuing through to the autumn and remaining low throughout the winter. (3) Changes in the sheltering behavior of each species in relation to changes in environmental conditions were used to interpret known differences in the position and breadth of their resource utilization curves along a gradient of rabbit grazing intensity. (4) Porcellio scaber sheltered more where the soil was more calcareous, P. muscorum more under the shade of trees, and both P. muscorum and A. vulgare more in grazed than in ungrazed swards. (5) Sheltering behavior was found to be positively correlated to both rainfall and soil temperature the day before sampling for A. vulgare but negatively to rainfall for P. muscorum. There was a positive relationship between the SI for P. scaber and daily air temperature range. (6) Variations in the sheltering behavior of these four species of terrestrial isopod are discussed in the context of their foraging and digestive strategies and in relation to their morphological, physiological, and behavioral adaptations to the terrestrial environment.
40206213|The morphology of the obligately ectoparasitic polychaete Asetocalamyzas laonicola was studied by light and electron microscopy, and its taxonomic position was determined using molecular methods. The parasite has an extensive coelomic cavity, complete septae, and well-developed segmental nephridia, circulatory, and digestive systems. The nervous system is rudimentary and without ganglia. The parasite's anterior region penetrates the tissues of the host, and opens into the host's body cavity. The epidermal tissues of the parasite and the host are highly integrated in the area of contact, and the parasite's cuticle is continuous with that of the host. Blood vessels of the parasite and the host may interlace in the fusion zone. The dorsal side of the parasite faces the dorsal side of the host. All parasites were males, but all hosts were females. In order to elucidate the uncertain systematic position of the parasite, molecular systematic studies were conducted. Parasite and host 18S rDNA sequences were virtually identical and revealed that both belong to the spionid cluster. These sequences differed from those of Scolelepis squamata and Scolelepis bonnieri by 2.7% and 0.9%, respectively. In addition, of seven partial sequences of the mitochondrial COI gene obtained from three parasites and four hosts, six were identical, and in one host-parasite pair, COI sequences differed by one substitution. Partial ITS2 sequences from one host-parasite pair were analyzed and also found to be similar but not identical, with two indels in a 645-bp alignment. We conclude that the parasite is in fact a dwarf male of its conspecific spionid female host. Consequently, A. laonicola is transferred to Scolelepis (Spionidae), forming the new combination Scolelepis laonicola.
10.2307/3226870|The ability to survive in a dormant state is a widespread, yet unevenly distributed feature among invertebrates. Organisms belonging to classes and phyla that include fresh-water or terrestrial representatives are more likely to possess a dormant stage than those in groups that are exclusively marine. Moreover, within taxa where dormancy has evolved, it is more common among fresh-water and terrestrial species than in marine species. This correlation between dormancy and habitat across 29 free-living invertebrate phyla raises the question of cause and effect. Are dormant stages more common in fresh-water and terrestrial habitats because there is greater selection for dormancy in those environments, or is dormancy a prerequisite for the successful invasion of non-marine systems? The mechanism of dormancy varies among species and ranges from a specialized diapausing embryo to a quiescent adult. Dormancy has most likely arisen multiple times in invertebrate life histories, both within and between phyla. Although dormancy may facilitate the invasion of fresh-water and terrestrial habitats, it is not always a requirement: many non-marine species do not exhibit dormancy.
10.2307/3226885|Colonies of Sinantherina socialis (phylum Rotifera) form conspicuous masses that should make them extremely vulnerable to fishes capable of ingesting small live prey (<3 mm in length). To test this hypothesis we offered rotifer colonies as prey to 14 species of small-mouthed, predatory fishes, alternating with small cladocerans. Most rotifer colonies (71-100%), but few cladocerans (0-14%) were rejected after capture. Fish feeding behavior on rotifers followed a consistent pattern: locate, approach, attack, mouth repeatedly, and reject (spit out). Except for loss of a few individuals, rotifer colonies that had been repeatedly rejected remained undamaged. This is the first evidence for unpalatability of rotifers to zooplanktivorous fishes.
3227071|The trophosome of adults of Riftia pachyptila (Vestimentifera) was reinvestigated using 3-dimensional ultrastructural reconstruction and quantitative morphological analysis. The symbionts make up 24.1%, the symbiont-containing cells (bacteriocytes) are 70.5% of the trophosome's volume. The trophosome is composed of lobules that have a central axial blood vessel surrounded by a myoepithelium containing bacteriocytes, in turn surrounded by an apolar tissue of bacteriocytes. Part of the splanchnic peritoneum lining the trunk coelom encases the bacteriocytes and forms a ramifying network of peripheral blood vessels. Based on the morphology and ultrastructure of the adult, we hypothesize a mesodermal rather than endodermal origin of trophosome and its constitute bacteriocytes. Some of the central bacteriocytes are part of the myoepithelium surrounding the axial blood vessel and act as stem cells for a proliferating tissue produced in the center and ultimately degraded at the periphery of each lobule. Similarly, the rod-shaped symbionts in the center act as stem cells and exhibit a simple cell cycle. Differentiation into cocci takes place in the median and peripheral zone. Lysis of cocci occurs in the degenerative zone.
40663869|The current investigation provides the first histomorphological description of the female palliai gonoduct in the muricid mollusc Dicathais orbita, and of sperm passage in the subfamily Rapaninae. Gonoduct anatomy, musculature, and sperm distribution were documented over the annual reproductive cycle to confirm the site of fertilization in members of the Muricidae, provide evidence for sperm storage, and allow subfamilial comparisons in reproductive anatomy and strategies. This approach revealed morphological plasticity of the ingesting gland in D. orbita, which has implications for the use of gonoduct character traits in taxonomic studies of the Muricidae. Other features of subfamilial diagnostic interest, including the ventral channel and both albumen and capsule glands, are highlighted to show common character traits between the Rapaninae, Ocenebrinae, and Muricinae. Conversely, distinct differences in posterior capsule and pedal gland morphology may aid subfamilial classification of Rapaninae species in future revisions of the Muricidae. Histomorphology coupled with sperm distribution revealed the passage of sperm and identified the dorsal albumen gland as the site of fertilization. Temporally replicated sampling indicated the potential for sperm storage for  10 months within the seminal receptacles in D. orbita. Sperm ingestion provides a possible mechanism for sexual selection, suggesting further investigation into sperm storage is warranted in the Muricidae.
23016705|The periodicity of sexual elements and soft tissue modifications during the life cycle of the hypercalcified sponge Petrobiona massiliana was investigated monthly from June 2006 to November 2007. Sexual reproduction, likely regulated by seawater temperatures, occurred during more than half of the year (from early April to late October); 70% of the samples appeared reproductively active. Specimens of P. massiliana displayed a high plasticity of tissue organization, allowing modulation and rearrangement of their aquiferous systems in response to life cycle phases and environmental changes. Permanent changes were observed in the basal region of the choanosome in non-reproductive specimens, such as disorganization/restructuring events leading to remodeling of the aquiferous system. Periodic modifications occurring during sexual reproduction included the transformation of choanocytes from a typical form to hourglass and vespiform shapes, and more global disorganization of the basal region of the choanosome during provisioning of oocytes and embryos, followed by restructuring after release of the larvae. Finally, episodic disorganization/reorganization phenomena occurred in a few specimens after unfavorable environmental conditions (e.g., decreasing seawater temperatures). Histological and ultrastructural observations of storage cells, located in peculiar trabecular tracts, suggest a transdifferentiation capacity that allows such soft tissue dynamics.
3701510|The ultrastructure of the male gonad of Eulimnadia texana (Branchiopoda, Spinicaudata) has been observed for the first time to investigate the sexuality of a well-studied case of androdioecy in the animal kingdom. The male gonad is a double structure located in the hemocoel throughout the entire body length on each side of the midgut. Male gametes originate from the wall and mature centripetally toward the lumen; the proliferative activity is very high and continuous and therefore the mature gonad is full of numerous germ cells. Inside the lumen several degenerative stages are found mixed with sperm cells and spermatids, the latter two being not easily distinguishable because of the slight differences between them. The evolutionary meaning of the degenerative process in E. texana male gametes is difficult to explain, and we propose some hypotheses about its possible role or cause in the studied population: (a) to help build spermatophores, (b) to act as a trophic component for viable sperm, (c) as a manifestation of inbreeding depression, and/or (d) to regulate the number of sperm cells.
3227228|Four tunnels off the lumen of the proventriculus of the carpenter bee, Xylocopa virginica virginica, have been discovered. Light and electron micrographs revealed the presence in the tunnels of gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria, some of which showed division stages. The occurrence of the bacteria exclusively in the tunnels-not in the lumen of the proventriculus-makes speculation as to their function difficult. The function of the tunnels is also obscure, as no glands were seen emptying into them. The bacteria may be symbionts that release enzymes into the tunnels, which are subsequently transported to the midgut to aid digestion. They could also be parasites. This is the first report of such bacterial-containing tunnels in insects.
10.2307/3226847|Among the free-living flatworms, members of the order Schizorhynchia have sperms with flagella that become fused with the shaft during spermiogenesis. In one division, Eukalyptorhynchia, there are two such fused axonemes, while in the other division, Schizorhynchia, there is only one. This study found similarities during spermiogenesis that link two closely related species traditionally classified in Eukalyptorhynchia (Cicerinidae), Toia calceformis and Nannorhynchides herdlaensis, to the Schizorhynchia. In both species, a pair of centrioles appears at the apex of the spermatid. Both centrioles are abortive in T. calceformis, while one develops into a short flagellum that becomes an incorporated axoneme in the sperm shaft of N. herdlaensis. This event has previously been demonstrated only in members of Schizorhynchia, and it strongly suggests that these two species and the Schizorhynchia share a recent common ancestor that branched off from other members of Eukalyptorhynchia. This would render the Cicerinidae and the Eukalyptorhynchia paraphyletic. Both species have eyes with distinctive lens elements that closely resemble those reported in some other rhabdocoel groups, but this is the first electron-microscopic report of such lenses in the Kalyptorhynchia.
3227111|A cladistic analysis based on 33 morphological characters was performed for the 31 genera currently assigned to the order Macrodasyida (Gastrotricha). Outgroup analysis indicated that the order is monophyletic and that it is defined by the structure of the pharynx and the complex distribution of duo-gland adhesive organs. Of the 6 currently recognized families in Macrodasyida, our analysis confirmed that 4 families are monophyletic: Dactylopodolidae, Macrodasyidae, Thaumastodermatidae and Turbanellidae. Dactylopodolidae was further confirmed as the most basal family within the order based on the retention of several plesiomorphies. The other three families have well-defined autapomorphies but will require further investigation to increase inter- and intrafamilial phylogenetic resolution. Planodasyidae appeared to be a paraphyletic taxon with no obvious autapomorphies; genera clustered among members of a polyphyletic family, Lepidodasyidae. We recommend that future research on macrodasyidan phylogeny focus on issues of comparative morphology and ultrastructure in lesser-known taxa such as the Dactylopodolidae, and on the taxa Lepidodasyidae and Planodasyidae.
3227260| A growing body of evidence suggests that interleukin-1 (IL-1) is present in invertebrates. Both invertebrate and human IL-1 can bind to invertebrate receptors and stimulate invertebrate immune functions. The present study shows that IL-1 increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) production by oyster immunocytes. However, physiological doses of noradrenaline (NA) exert a suppressive effect on IL-1 stimulation in vitro. The -adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol mimicked the effects of NA and the -adrenoceptor antagonist propanolol blocked the NA-induced suppression of hemocyte responsiveness to IL-1. The type IV phosphodiesterase inhibitor rolipram acted in synergy with isoproterenol to reduce hemocyte response to IL-1 and the protein kinase A inhibitor H-89 suppressed the effects of isoproterenol. These results suggest that circulating NA impairs IL-1-stimulation of oyster hemocyte via a -adrenoceptor/cyclic AMP/protein kinase-A signaling pathway. Considering that mollusc immunocytes secrete NA, an autocrine regulatory loop may also modulate the ability of these cells to respond to IL-1. 
3227093|No morphological clues on the amphipod head indicate the existence of ocelli. However, as in several isopod species studied so far, two rudimentary photoreceptors are integrated into the medio-dorsal part of the brain. This electron microscopical study of the photoreceptors is the first report on the presence of ocelli in amphipods. Each ocellus is made up of 3 receptor cells which contribute to the formation of a photoreceptive surface (the rhabdom) formed by tightly packed microvilli. The rhabdoms are twisted and irregular in outline. Membrane turnover is suggested by the presence of different kinds of lysosomes. Lacking dioptric lenses, these photoreceptors are not likely to be involved in image formation but may function as appraisers of ambient light intensity. Physiological and behavioral studies will, henceforth, have to take into account these unexpected ocelli, which may represent remnants of the naupliar eye.
3227200|The body-wall and visceral musculature of Notholca acuminata was visualized using phalloidin-linked fluorescent dye under confocal laser scanning microscopy. The body-wall musculature includes dorsal, lateral, and ventral pairs of longitudinally oriented body retractor muscles, two pairs of head retractors, three pairs of incomplete circular muscles, which are modified into dorso-ventral muscles, and a single pair of dorsolateral muscles. The visceral musculature consists of a complex of thick muscles associated with the mastax, as well as several sets of delicate fibers associated with the corona, stomach, gut, and cloaca, including thin longitudinal gut fibers and viscero-cloacal fibers, never before reported in other species of rotifers. The dorsal, lateral, and ventral retractor muscles and the incomplete circular muscles associated with the body wall appear to be apomorphies for the Rotifera. Muscle-revealing staining shows promise for providing additional information on previously unrecognized complexity in rotifer musculature that will be useful in functional morphology and phylogenetic analyses.
10.2307/3226964|Four aspects of sexual reproduction were examined in a northeastern Pacific population of the kamptozoan (entoproct) Barentsia hildegardae. The investigation of this colonial species revealed that (1) the population was sexually mature year-round, with a peak of sexual maturity during summer; (2) the sex ratio of the calyces in this population did not differ significantly from 1:1 male:female; (3) male colonies grown on glass slides had higher proportions of sexually mature calyces than did females and the zone of maturity extended farther toward stolon tips; (4) recruitment was much higher near female than male colonies, perhaps because brooded larvae settled near their mothers almost immediately after release.
25623052|In laboratory studies of fertilization using the gonochoric broadcast-spawning asterinid sea star Patiria miniata, we found many cases in which some mature eggs spawned by females formed cleavage-stage embryos and feeding bipinnaria larvae without fertilization by sperm. Segregation of maternal microsatellite alleles among the parthenogenetic offspring of known heterozygous females was consistent with several specific modes of asexual reproduction, including polar body suppression. Cryptic outcrossing by sperm contamination was ruled out by the failure to observe non-maternal alleles. The potential for asexual reproduction by the normally outcrossing members of P. miniata may suggest a shared propensity for asexuality among asterinid species from several clades in which isolated adults can produce offspring without outcrossing.
10.2307/3227036| Bathypera feminalba is a solitary deep-water ascidian inhabiting rocky areas of the NE Pacific. The low mound-shaped body is sheathed by a thin fibrous tunic densely studded with calcitic spicules ~150 m in length. Under the tunic, the ascidian body is covered by an epithelium bound to the inner edge of the tunic. New tunic and spicules form extracellularly in the epithelium inside the incurrent and excurrent siphons and around the periphery of the animal where it is attached to the substratum. Each spicule has a round flattened base, a narrow collared neck or sulcus that anchors it in the tunic, and a ring of distal spines. The central spine is the longest and usually directed outward from the central axis. A thin acellular organic envelope closely covers each spicule. A dense fibrous layer forms between the envelope and epithelium. Additional organic material remains in thin sections of demineralized spicules. The spicule base forms first; then, as the epithelial cells produce additional tunic, the spicules are pushed out of the epithelium into the ever-thickening tunic. Beyond this stage, no cells can be found in the tunic near the spicule base, and probably no further mineralization of the base occurs. As the spicule base is forming, secondary highly pseudopodial sclerocytes aggregate in the tunic overlying the distal part of the spicules. These sclerocytes are apparently responsible for production of the spines, which are comprised of numerous overlapping "shingles" of calcite. Mineralization of the spines probably continues throughout the life of the animal, because secondary sclerocytes remain numerous in the distal regions of all spicules. 
4621887|Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein that can maintain telomeres, the repetitive sequences of DNA found at the end of eukaryotic chromosomes, and confer long-term proliferative capacity on cells. Telomerase expression is essential during periods of intense cell division such as the early developmental process. In later development, some species retain telomerase activity while others repress telomerase activity in what is thought to be a tumor-protective mechanism. Despite the importance of telomerase expression in both development and neoplastic disease, no studies to date have characterized its expression in bivalves. We present the first report of telomerase expression in a bivalve species, the sand scallop, Euvola ziczac. Telomerase activity was detected throughout the early stages of development and in all adult tissues examined. Analysis of DNA isolated from adult tissues indicated long telomeres, with terminal restriction fragment lengths > 20 kb in both somatic and germ tissues. Ubiquitous telomerase expression throughout development and into adulthood would suggest a lack of telomere-related senescence and suggests that these scallops do not use telomerase repression as a mechanism to suppress the formation of neoplasm.
3227164|Bivalve classification has suffered in the past from the crossed-purpose discussions among paleontologists and neontologists, and many have based their proposals on single character systems. More recently, molecular biologists have investigated bivalve relationships by using only gene sequence data, ignoring paleontological and neontological data. In the present study we have compiled morphological and anatomical data with mostly new molecular evidence to provide a more stable and robust phylogenetic estimate for bivalve molluscs. The data here compiled consist of a morphological data set of 183 characters, and a molecular data set from 3 loci: 2 nuclear ribosomal genes (18S rRNA and 28S rRNA), and 1 mitochondrial coding gene (cytochrome c oxidase subunit I), totaling ~3 Kb of sequence data for 76 molluscs (62 bivalves and 14 outgroup taxa). The data have been analyzed separately and in combination by using the direct optimization method of Wheeler (1996), and they have been evaluated under 12 analytical schemes. The combined analysis supports the monophyly of bivalves, paraphyly of protobranchiate bivalves, and monophyly of Autolamellibranchiata, Pteriomorphia, Heteroconchia, Palaeoheterodonta, and Heterodonta s.l., which includes the monophyletic taxon Anomalodesmata. These analyses strongly support the conclusion that Anomalodesmata should not receive a class status, and that the heterodont orders Myoida and Veneroida are not monophyletic. Among the most stable results of the analysis are the monophyly of Palaeoheterodonta, grouping the extant trigoniids with the freshwater unionids, and the sister-group relationship of the heterodont families Astartidae and Carditidae, which together constitute the sister taxon to the remaining heterodont bivalves. Internal relationships of the main bivalve groups are discussed on the basis of node support and clade stability.
4124900|The symbiotic association between the new sponge species Mycale vansoesti and the coralline alga Amphiroa sp. from the Bunaken Marine Park (North Sulawesi, Indonesia) is described. The alga completely pervades the sponge. The color of the sponge ectosome is white, both on the external surface and on the atrial wall, but where the alga is present the sponge takes on the light pink color of the alga. The sponge spicular complement is characterized by mycalostyles, anisochelae of two types, sigmas (often "C" shaped), and extremely abundant toxas organized in bundles forming toxadragma. In the association, the sponge shows very low silicate value, and consequently the alga represents the main skeleton of the sponge. On the other hand, the sponge affects the morphology of the alga, leading to a cylindrical shape, with thalli running parallel to the sponge surface. This association seems to be obligate for the sponge, as we found no sponges of this species living in isolation.
40663871|Gelatinous egg masses are common in a number of animal phyla. However, they are virtually unknown in marine bivalves, with structures that could be thought of as gelatinous egg masses being reported for only five species. We describe the gelatinous egg mass and intracapsular development in the tropical lucinid Phacoides pectinatus. The embryos developed within individual capsules embedded in a large flimsy, spherical mass. Swimming veligers hatch at 198 m shell length. They did not feed, settled within several days of hatching, and metamorphosis was completed within 2 weeks of hatching. Gelatinous egg masses might be detected in members of more lucinid species if studies of development included field or in vivo observations of reproduction in addition to producing embryos by stripping the gonads.
10.2307/3227058| Glial cells and their processes were characterized in the fasciculated zone and in the protocerebral tract of the crab Ucides cordatus by light and electron microscopy. Thiry and PAS procedures indicate the presence of carbohydrates, particularly glycogen in cells. Immunohistochemistry was used to observe tubulin distribution in the glial cells. Our results demonstrate at least two types of glial cells in the fasciculated zone and in the protocerebral tract, separable by their location and electron density. Judging by their position, electron-lucent cells may correspond to periaxonal cells and electron-dense ones may correspond to perineurial cells. The electron-dense processes have previously been interpreted as extracellular matrix, but since they feature an enveloping membrane and contain glycogen and mitochondria (intact and with varying degrees of disruption) we consider them to be part of one type of glial cells. 
4124890|Land flatworms (Platyhelminthes: Terricola) are sensitive to environmental changes and might be used as biological indicators of the degree of disturbance of their habitats. Nevertheless, studies on the structure of land flatworm communities are rare. In the present study, we investigated the terrestrial flatworm communities in two types of ombrophilous forest, Atlantic forest and Araucaria forest, aiming to answer the following questions: (1) Is the community structure of the two types of ombrophilous forest different? (2) Are there differences, regarding community structure, among distinct fragments of Araucaria forest? (3) Are there indicators of edge effects in these communities? The study site, the National Park of Aparados da Serra, is mainly covered, at high altitudes, by fragments of Araucaria forest immersed in a matrix of open areas (grasslands) and, in low altitudes, by a continuous Atlantic forest. We conducted monthly surveys in the two types of forest with three replications per forest type over a period of 2 years. Results indicated that: (1) community structure is clearly distinct between the two types of forest, as well as among fragments of the Araucaria forest; (2) there are no apparent edge effects; (3) the diversity indices of the two types of ombrophilous forest are not significantly different (Atlantic forest H' = 2.87, Araucaria forest H' = 2.55; p>0.05); and (4) there are significant differences in diversity indices between two fragments of Araucaria forest (H' = 2.92 and 2.47; p<0.001). The following factors could affect community structure: type of vegetation, degree of human disturbance, and abiotic factors, such as pH and temperature.
25623053|When free-living organisms evolve into symbiotic organisms (parasites, commensals, or mutualists), their bodyplan is often dramatically modified as a consequence. The present work pertains to the study of this process in a group of marine obligate symbiotic worms, the Myzostomida. These are mainly ectocommensals and are only associated with echinoderms, mostly crinoids. Their usual textbook status as a class of the Annelida is generally accepted, although recent molecular phylogenetic studies have raised doubts on their relationships with other metazoans, and the question of their status remains open. Here, we reconstruct the evolution of their bodyplans by mapping 14 external morphological characters (analyzed using scanning electron microscopy) onto molecular phylogenies using maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) optimality criteria. Rooted MP, ML, and Bayesian phylogenetic trees were obtained by analyzing the nucleotide sequences of cytochrome oxidase subunit I, 18S rDNA, and 16S rDNA genes, separately and in combination. Representatives of 34 species distributed among seven extant genera were investigated. Our character evolution analyses, combined with recent ontogenetic and ultrastructural evidence, indicate that the organism at the base of the myzostome tree would have had six body segments and five pairs of polychaete-type parapodia, and that two lineages emerged from it: one comprising parasites, with large females and dwarf males, which gave rise to the extant Pulvinomyzostomum and Endomyzostoma species, and a second lineage comprising simultaneously hermaphroditic ectocommensals, from which all other extant myzostome taxa probably evolved.
3227210| Temperate sea anemones in the genus Anthopleura are unique among enidarians in harboring two phylogenetically distinct symbiotic algae, zooxanthellae (golden-brown dinophytes, Symbiodinium) and zoochlorellae (green chlorophytes). To determine whether their physiological differences generate patterns in anemone habitat and biogeographic distribution, we sampled symbiotic algae in the small clonal A. elegantissima and the large solitary A. xanthogrammica at 8 field sites (and the other large solitary Anthopleura species at one site) spanning 18 of latitude along 2500 km of the Pacific coast of North America. We found that zoochlorellae predominate in low intertidal habitats and northerly latitudes and in A. xanthogrammica, while zooxanthellae constitute the majority of symbionts in high intertidal habitats and more southerly latitudes and in A. elegantissima. These data are consistent with published predictions based on photosynthetic efficiency of the two algae under varied temperature and light regimes in the laboratory. This anemone-algal system provides a potential biological signal of benthic intertidal communities' responses to El Nio events and long-term climate changes in the Pacific. 
3701501|Species of Helicoradomenia are constantly found at hydrothermal vent sites of the eastern and western Pacific Ocean. The digestive tract of 2 species of the genus was investigated with special focus on the ultrastructure and histochemistry of epithelia and glandular organs. The preoral cavity and foregut epithelia are composed of microvillous main cells, secretory cells producing protein-rich substances, and sensory cells with specialized cilia. The foregut bears a pair of glands with 3 types of extremely long-necked glandular cells surrounded by musculature. Each glandular cell opens directly into the radula pocket without a gland duct. The large radula apparatus consists of pairs of denticulated bars resting on a flexible radular membrane without elaboration of a subradular membrane. The midgut has a narrow, mid-dorsal tract of ciliary cells, but most of the epithelium is composed of digestive cells with a highly developed lysosomal system. The hindgut is lined by ciliated cells and free of glands. The foregut and radula seem to be highly efficient in the capture of relatively large, motile prey. Food contents within the midgut lumen and within some of the large secondary lysosomes indicate a triploblastic metazoan prey of non-cnidarian origin. The digestive tract is not adapted to microvory and there is no indication of a symbiosis with chemoautotrophic bacteria.
3701494|Echinoids are generally thought to develop only a single ectodermal invagination (V1), which expands into a vestibule and contributes to the formation of the juvenile rudiment on the left side of the larval body. However, in 2 echinoid species, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus and Dendraster excentricus, a second invagination (V2) was observed to form on the right side of the larval body exactly opposite V1. Formation of the invaginations was followed and characterized using light microscopy and antibodies directed against the S2amide echinoderm neuropeptide as a morphological tag. V2 consistently formed later than V1, and appeared capable of contributing to the formation of a second rudiment when it received the appropriate mesodermal influence from contact with a hydrocoel. Otherwise, in both species, V2 formed a skeletal element that has not been previously described in this location. Because of the location, shape, and timing of its formation, V2, like V1, appears to have the innate ability of the larval ectoderm to contribute to juvenile rudiment formation.
10.2307/3226837|Data are presented on the ultrastructure of the sclerotised parts in the female system of the symbiotic turbellarian (Platyhelminthes) Syndesmis longicanalis. The bursal canal, insemination canal, and bursal valve are basement membrane derivatives. These structures are compared with hard parts derived from basement membrane in other turbellarians. The taxonomic value of the bursal value in Umagillidae is rejected.
10.2307/3226873|Samples of Euhyperamoeba biospherica n. sp., a free-living, marine, multinucleate, limax ameba of Caribbean origin (via the Biosphere 2 Ocean and a Georgetown University marine aquarium) were examined by light and transmission electron microscopy. The amebas grossly resemble two previously described species of marine, multinucleate limax amebas, Euhyperamoeba fallax and Gruberella flavescens. They differ, however, in their large size and thousands of nuclei. They also differ in containing structures that resemble bacteria more than mitochondria because of their ultrastructure and presumed division figures and because they produce rods composed of filaments or microtubules. We suggest that these amebas are more primitive than E. fallax or G. flavescens and may, therefore, contribute to our understanding of the evolution of organelles, such as mitochondria, in eukaryotic cells.
3227204|The lectin wheat-germ agglutinin (WGA) selectively binds N-acetyl-D-glucosamine. Fluorescence and electron microscopy were used to show that WGA stains the cytoplasmic granules in the granulocytes, but not the hyaline cells, of two decapods, the ridgeback prawn Sicyonia ingentis and the American lobster Homarus americanus. Using fluorescence microscopy, two intermediate stages in granulocyte maturation were observed. Cells smaller than typical small-granule hemocytes were observed with 5 or fewer granules, which in previous studies using brightfield and phase optics were probably counted as hyaline cells. Also, some granulocytes were observed containing both small and large granules, supporting the suggestion that small and large granule hemocytes represent stages in the maturation of one cell line. Granules in the single type of hemocyte in the branchiopod Artemia franciscana did not stain with WGA. The possible roles of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine in wound healing, pathogen encapsulation, and maintenance of normal crustecean connective tissues are discussed.
4124903|Many cryptobranch dorid nudibranchs contain innumerable calcareous spicules, yet the function of these elements is unknown. Two possible roles are defense against predators and structural support. In one dorid, Cadlina luteomarginata, whole-mount and thin-section staining revealed an intricate network of spicule tracts and connective tissue ramifying throughout the body, with muscle fibers associated with this spicule/connective tissue matrix and inserting into it. Spicules were present in high concentrations in all areas of the body, but highest in exterior mantle tissue. Relative investment increased isometrically with body size for most body regions, in contrast to the positively allometric investment seen in prosobranch shells. Bioassays with artificial food indicated that spicules alone did not deter generalist crabs and anemones, and only weakly increased the deterrence of secondary chemicals to anemones. Thus, while nudibranch spicules may serve as a defense against other predators, their primary role may be in body support.
10.2307/3226999|The integumental ultrastructure of the trunk and proboscis of the echiuran Maxmuelleria lankesteri is described. In the trunk, a complex cuticle overlies an epithelium of support and secretory cells. The proboscis has a typical ciliated epithelium with a simpler cuticle but more microvilli than the trunk. A close similarity with the integument of Urechis caupo suggests a high degree of morphological conservatism in echiurans. Rod-shaped bacteria were found in the basal cuticle of the trunk. The most striking and unexpected feature of the trunk integument was the presence, in the cytoplasm and nuclei of support cells, of crystalline arrays that may be viral in origin.
3227194|The fragmentation and rearrangement of the ciliary bands that occurs during the auricularia-to-doliolaria transformation is described for the non-feeding auricularia larva of Holothuria mexicana and the more typical planktotrophic auricularia of Stichopus californicus. The ciliary band of the auricularia larva runs along a series of ridges that project from the sides of the body. Fragmentation results from a loss of ciliary band cells from the zones between the ridges. The remaining fragments then reorient, elongate, and fuse to form the 5 circumferential bands of the doliolaria. The fate of the band cells lost during this process could not be determined with certainty, but they disappear after being sequestered beneath the epithelium for a time, probably through histolysis. Cell counts indicate that significant numbers of cells are also lost from the ridges. Normal swimming ceases just before transformation begins, probably because the nerve supply to all or parts of the band is disrupted, and this may play a role in initiating morphogenesis.
40981238|Settlement is an important process in the biphasic life histories of many marine invertebrates. Little is known regarding the fine-scale behavioral mechanisms for finding and attaching to a suitable substratum, particularly under conditions that may impose a potential challenge, such as flow. In this study, we examined the settlement behavior of cyphonautes larvae of the bryozoan, Membranipora membranacea, in response to two different algal substrata. Larvae showed a strong preference for settling on the kelp Nereocystis luetkeana over the red alga Mazzaella splendens. We then tested whether the behavioral mechanisms used by larvae to attach to these algae differed when presented with the challenge of flowing water during settlement. We found that larvae exhibited different behaviors on the two species of algae in flowing water. Larvae were more often observed in direct contact with the preferred alga (N. luetkeana) exhibiting fine-scale active search behaviors. On the less preferred alga (M. splendens), larvae were less frequently observed in direct contact with the alga, and appeared to be exhibiting broad-scale passive search behaviors along the surface of the blade. Our results suggest that cyphonautes larvae alter their behavior in response to their preferred settlement habitat.
40206192|Brachyptery in female moths is a common phenomenon. This article examines the eyes of the moth Operophtera brumata, in which only the males have wings. Both sexes possess eyes of the superposition type, have facets with corneal nipples, and exhibit eyeglow, but the eye of the male has 2174 facets, measures 725 m in diameter, and has a clear zone of 112-m width. That of the female has 1352 facets, measures 557 m across, and has a 77-m-wide clear zone. There were no significant differences in rhabdom diameters (10 m) and tracheal sheath development, but male rhabdoms were significantly longer (85 vs. 65 m). Dark/light adaptational changes manifested themselves in the positions of the distal screening pigment granules: between the cones during darkness and into the clear zone during light adaptation. The combination of a larger radius of curvature, wider clear zone, and longer rhabdoms gives the males a sensitivity at least twice that of the female. The narrower interommatidial angles of the male (2.8 vs. 3.2) together with the well-developed tracheal rhabdom sheaths, furthermore, provide the eyes of the males with better resolution. Finally, eye-glow intensity in males diminishes considerably faster in light than it does in females. The differences between males and females appear to reflect their different roles: males begin to search after sunset in and around stands of trees for the pheromone-emitting females, which sit on the trunk of the tree under which they had emerged from their pupal case. Flying males encounter rapid light intensity changes and have to evade obstacles and enemies. The females are considerably more sedentary, but once mated, still seek suitable oviposition sites long after the males have ceased searching for them. During this activity, the females also need visual sensitivity and acuity, but less than the actively flying males.
3701484|Most species of freshwater cyclopoid copepods follow a conventional course of DNA replication during gametogenesis, but certain species regularly undergo chromatin diminution during early embryogenesis, a process that is accompanied by the exclusion of large amounts of heterochromatic DNA from progenitor somatic cells and selective retention of this DNA by primordial germ cells after their segregation from the soma. We have used scanning microdensitometry and image analysis cytometry of individual Feulgen-stained nuclei to determine the DNA levels of individual somatic cell nuclei, oocytes, spermatocytes, and sperm for seven species, including Acanthocyclops brevispinosus, Acanthocyclops vernalis, Ectocyclops phaleratus, Eucyclops agilis, Eucy clops ensifer, Macrocyclops albidus, and Thermocyclops decipiens. The oocyte nuclei of these species have twice the DNA content of their diploid somatic cell nuclei. In specimens of Cyclops strenuus, Mesocyclops edax, Mesocyclops longisetus, Mesocyclops longisetus curvatus, and Metacyclops mendocinus, marked increases in DNA levels were noted in both female and male germ cells before meiosis. The appearance of enlarged nuclei with densely stained chromocenters is a distinguishing feature of oocytes and spermatocytes of cyclopoid species that exhibit excessive accumulations of DNA during gametogenesis and subsequently undergo chromatin diminution. The net increase in DNA content of the prediminution nuclei is 6-10 times the DNA level of their somatic cell nuclei and is largely attributable to increases in the amount of DNA associated with their heterochromatic chromocenters. The identification of a morphologically distinctive type of germ cell and its dramatic accumulation of large amounts of DNA before meiosis are discussed in terms of the selective elimination of heterochromatin during early cleavage stages in these cyclopoid species.
3701471|The albumen gland of the freshwater pulmonate snail Helisoma duryi produces and secretes the perivitelline fluid, which coats fertilized eggs and provides nutrients to the developing embryos. It is known that perivitelline fluid secretion is stimulated by dopamine through the activation of a dopamine
10.2307/3226842|Ovarian structure and cellular composition of the oocyte and associated cells in Brachycentrus incanus (Insecta: Trichoptera) were examined by light and transmission electron microscopy. The ovary consisted of numerous ovarioles, each containing at least one maturing oocyte with its associated nurse cells and follicle cells. The ooplasm consisted primarily of electron-dense yolk bodies and lipid droplets. An oocyte nucleus was discernible only in preand early vitellogenic stages. Seven nurse cells, at the distal end of each oocyte, were connected through cytoplasmic bridges to the oocyte and to each other. Each large lobate nurse cell nucleus contained uniformly spaced clumps of heterochromatin and numerous nuclear pores; the cytoplasm contained mitochondria, a small amount of non-dilated granular endoplasmic reticulum (GER), agranular vesicles, and numerous free ribosomes. Follicle cells, which formed a layer around the oocyte, each contained a large oval nucleus with abundant heterochromatin and a moderate number of nuclear pores; the cytoplasm contained abundant dilated GER, mitochondria, Golgi bodies, and free ribosomes. Oocyte microvilli interdigitated with those of the follicle cells through a filamentous extracellular material of variable electron density. This is the first detailed description of egg chamber ultrastructure in this major insect order. The overall structure is very similar to that of other neopterous insect orders, including Lepidoptera, to which Trichoptera is generally considered to be closely related.
3227134|Difficulties in addressing relationships among sea anemones are explored in the context of a revision of the family Edwardsiidae. This family has been important in discussions of relationships within Zoantharia (Cnidaria, Anthozoa), but has been poorly characterized. Genera within Edwardsiidae are characterized by a mosaic distribution of a few key characters whose actual distribution is not well understood; generalized and idealized morphology, rather than the actual distribution of characters, has been previously used to delimit genera. Microanatomy of muscles and the body wall, qualitative and quantitative information about muscle shape, and nematocyst size are combined with 18S rDNA sequences in a cladistic analysis. The results demonstrate that some traditional diagnostic features support groups different from those previously recognized. Character support is identified for several previously proposed taxa or clades, including the genus Edwardsiella and a clade containing Nematostella and Drillactis. Edwardsiidae and several of its genera are monophyletic; however, groups within the subfamily Edwardsiinae require revision and recircumscription. The genus Edwardsia is paraphyletic, and these data do not resolve Edwardsia species into monophyletic groups.
40206211|The starlet sea anemone, Nematostella vectensis Stephenson 1935, is a burrowing, estuarine species that has become a model organism for fundamental studies of cnidarian and metazoan development. During early oogenesis, oocytes appear in the basal region of the gastrodermis in the reproductive mesenteries and gradually bulge into the adjacent connective tissue space (mesoglea) where the majority of oocyte growth and vitellogenesis occurs. However, oocytes do not physically contact the cellular and amorphous matrix of the mesogleal compartment due to a thin, intervening basal lamina. Oocytes retain limited contact with the basal gastrodermal epithelium via groups of ultrastructurally modified gastrodermal cells called trophocytes. Trophocytes are monociliated accessory cells of somatic origin that collectively form a structure called the trophonema, a unique accessory cell/oocyte association not observed outside the Cnidaria. The trophonema consists of 50-60 trophocytes that maintain contact with <1% of the oocyte surface and forms a circular, bowel-shaped depression on the luminal surface of the gastrodermis as they sink into the mesoglea with the oocyte. The oocyte remains highly polarized throughout oogenesis with the germinal vesicle positioned near the trophonema and presumably representing the future animal pole of the embryo. Contact between the trophonema and the oocyte is restricted to cell junctions connecting peripheral trophocytes and narrow extensions from the oocyte. Previous studies suggest that the trophonema plays a role in transport of extracellular digestive products from the gastrovascular cavity to the oocyte, and the ultrastructural features described in this study are consistent with that view. Vitellogenesis is described for the first time in a sea anemone. Yolk synthesis involves both autosynthetic and heterosynthetic processes including the biosynthetic activity of the Golgi complex and the uptake of extraoocytic yolk precursors via endocytosis, respectively.
23016254|Although the reproductive biology and early life-history stages of deep-sea corals are poorly understood, such data are crucial for their conservation and management. Here, we describe the timing of larval release, planula behavior, metamorphosis, settlement, and early juvenile growth of two species of deep-sea soft corals from the northwest Atlantic. Live colonies of Gersemia fruticosa maintained under flow-through laboratory conditions released 79 planulae (1.52.5 mm long) between April and early June 2007. Peak planulation in G. fruticosa coincided with peaks in the chlorophyll concentration and deposition rates of planktic matter. Metamorphosis and settlement occurred 370d post-release. The eight primary mesenteries typically appeared within 24h, and primary polyps grew to a height of 610 mm and a stalk diameter of 1 mm within 23 months. Planulae of Duva florida (1.52.5 mm long) were extracted surgically from several colonies and were successfully reared in culture. Primary polyps reached a height of 34 mm within 23 months. No budding of primary polyps was observed in either species over 1113 months of monitoring, suggesting a very slow growth rate.
3227144|Allozymes were assessed by starch gel electrophoresis in 3 populations of a eutardigrade, Richtersius coronifer, with different reproductive modes. One population from Italy (with 2 sub-populations) was amphimictic and 2 populations (1 from Italy and 1 from Sweden) were parthenogenetic. All populations, irrespective of their reproductive mode, were diploid with the same chromosome number (2n=12) and had bivalents in the oocytes. Of the 14 loci analyzed, only 3 were polymorphic. The amphimictic population had a higher degree of genetic variability (mean heterozygosity >0.25) than the parthenogenetic populations (mean heterozygosity of the 2 populations <0.01). In all female populations, allele frequencies at all 3 loci deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibria due to heterozygote deficiency. These results support a hypothesis of automictic parthenogenesis in R. coronifer.
40981225|Egg hull formation during oogenesis in the chiton Callochiton dentatus does not follow the typical model of merocrine secretion involving Golgi vesicle exocytosis. Instead, microapocrine secretions are primarily responsible for egg hull formation, although merocrine secretions contribute "areolae" and the vitelline layer. Microapocrine secretion mechanisms are poorly understood, involving a different cellular pathway than is typical. Egg hull formation in C. dentatus involves two types of microapocrine secretions released by the oocyte, one of which is described here for the first time. The plesiomorphic jelly-like egg hull of chitons, as exemplified by the eggs of members of the basal order Lepidopleurida and present also in eggs of C. dentatus (Chitonida: Callichitonidae), may have evolved solely as an oocyte secretion, whereas members of some other families in the order Chitonida form their egg hulls with considerable secretory input from the follicle cells as well.
10.2307/3226909|Before copulation in Dugesia gonocephala, eosinophilic secretions of glands in the penis diaphragm and in the most proximal part of the ejaculatory duct accumulate in the funnel-shaped part of the ejaculatory duct and cohere to form a sclerotized, tubular structure, sealed at the distal end and covered internally with secretions of glands at the tip of the diaphragm conus. The elongating tube fills with a mixture of sperms, released in small clusters from both sperm ducts, and two types of seminal secretions produced by gland cells of the seminal vesicle. This causes the sealed end of the tube to inflate, forming a spherical, stalked bladder. As copulation begins, each mating partner inserts its penis with the protruding spermatophore into the vaginal area of the bursal canal of the partner. Penis insertion causes the penis papilla to elongate, the diaphragm conus to invert, and the seminal vesicle to expand. The latter is filled with a loosely packed substance. The increase in surface area is probably facilitated by the presence of epithelial cells with an expandable apical end. The spermatophore bladder expands to its full size during copulation as large amounts of sperms and seminal secretions are released into it. Filling of the spermatophore ends with the transfer of the spermatophore into the partner's bursa. No additional sperms or seminal secretions are transferred after spermatophore exchange is completed. Spermatophore transfer causes the lumen of the seminal vesicle to collapse and the diaphragm to regain its conical shape, suggesting that the seminal vesicle functions as a kind of mechanical pump.
3701504|A new mechanism of asexual multiplication of colonies is described in a colonial ascidian of the genus Clavelina (Aplousobranchiata). The mechanism consisted of the production of star-shaped buds that originate from a basal vessel that bends anteriorly and extends along the dorsal region of the zooids. Once they are well developed, the buds detached easily and were dispersed by water movement. Analysis of the fine structure of the buds revealed that they were a modification of the stolonic budding common in this genus. Timelapse video recordings showed that released buds required several days to develop, allowing for a potentially significant dispersal range. The buds underwent organogenesis during which the central part gave rise to a new blastozooid with a defined polarity; the arms of the star gave rise to stolons. A new species is defined based on the presence of this type of budding and on other morphological features. The significance of these findings, which adds to the known mechanisms of asexual reproduction in ascidians, is discussed in relation to the biology and distribution of the species.
3227227|We examined claw characteristics of mud crabs (Eurypanopeus depressus, Rhithropanopeus harrisii) to determine if one crab species was potentially more powerful than the other. We related our findings to the abilities of individuals of each species to open epifaunal mytiliform bivalves (Ischadium recurvum; Mytilopsis leucophaeata) that occur on beds of eastern oysters (Crassostrea virginica) in mesohaline Chesapeake Bay. There were high correlations between claw width or height and claw length, and between claw length and carapace width for both mud crab species. The mechanical advantage or "grip strength" of the crusher and cutter claws of both species did not change with crab size (carapace width) and did not differ between sexes in each species, nor did the cutter data differ between species. However, individuals of E. depressus had a significantly stronger crusher claw grip than did those of R. harrisii. Data on mechanical advantage for both species were similar to values reported in the literature for members of other xanthid crab species. These values in turn overlapped those reported for calappid, cancrid, majid, and grapsid crabs, and were greater than those of various species of portunid crabs and individual species of fiddler crab, lobster, crayfish, and ghost shrimp. When simultaneously presented with the two species of bivalves, the mud crabs E. depressus chose mussels of M. leucophaeata first and crabs of R. harrisii chose mussels of I. recurvum first about two-thirds of the time; ultimately, the crabs ate both bivalve species in >50% of the choice experiments. The size range in E. depressus was greater than that in R. harrisii, and crabs of E. depressus opened larger bivalves than did crabs of R. harrisii, although similar-sized individuals of the two crab species overlapped in their ability to open bivalves of both species. In Mytilopsis leucophaeata, there is probably no size refuge from predation by the mud crabs whereas the larger mussels of I. recurvum do have a refuge in size.
3701502| The reproductive biology of polychaetes includes a diverse array of characteristics that sometimes have been related to features of the habitat and others times appear to be phylogenetically constrained. The reproductive biology of polychaetes from deep-sea hydrothermal vents is of particular interest, given the continuing supply of food when vents are active and the ephemeral nature of the vent environment. As part of a survey of reproductive attributes of vent polychaetes, we undertook a descriptive study of the anatomy of the ampharetid polychaete, Amathys lutzi, which lives in mucus-lined tubes attached to mussel shells or rocks at hydrothermal vent sites along the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Reproductive features of ampharetids from the Logatchev vent site were examined with serial sections under light microscopy and with transmission electron microscopy. Members of A. lutzi are gonochoric and lack external sexual dimorphism. Gonads are associated with 3 pairs of mixonephridia found laterally in the anterior region of the polychaete. Oocytes undergo extraovarian oogenesis and are released into the coelom in the previtellogenic phase. Maximum oocyte diameter is ~190 rm, suggesting lecithotrophic development. Within individual females, oocyte size-frequencies suggest the presence of cohorts of maturing oocytes, consistent with periodic release of gametes. There is no evidence for sperm storage in females. Early stages of developing sperm are also found in the coelom; mature sperm fit the general description of ect-aquasperm. These reproductive characteristics of individuals of A. lutzi are similar to those of the Pacific vent ampharetid, Amphisamytha galapagensis. 
25623051|Gramastacus insolitus is a very small non-burrowing Australian freshwater crayfish with a restricted distribution, occurring almost exclusively in seasonal habitats throughout its range. It is listed as a threatened species but its strategy for surviving dry periods was unknown. Eight seasonal surveys of crayfish distribution showed that members of G. insolitus were never found at sites that were outside the distribution of two larger burrowing freshwater crayfish species, Geocharax falcata and Cherax destructor. Excavation of 80 burrows of members of G. falcata and C. destructor in three different seasonal habitats in the Grampians National Park, Victoria, Australia, revealed that individuals of G. insolitus found refuge from drying by estivating in cracks and shallow depressions at the side of the main burrow tunnels constructed by larger species. Members of G. insolitus were not found estivating at the surface, such as under fallen wood, nor was it usually found in crayfish burrows unoccupied by the host crayfish. This study indicates that members of G. insolitus are commensal upon larger crayfish species, using their burrows to survive the seasonal drying of their habitat. Conservation strategies for populations of G. insolitus will need to consider co-existing species of burrowing crayfish.
3227157|Some gastropods appear to utilize a strategy for regulating testosterone levels that is atypical of such processes thus far identified in other metazoans. While most animals convert testosterone largely to polar derivatives that are readily eliminated from the organism, the mud snail Ilyanassa obsoleta converts testosterone to apolar testosterone-fatty acid esters that are retained by the organism. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that fatty acid esterification serves to store testosterone and that stored testosterone-fatty acid ester pools vary through the reproductive cycle of the snail. This hypothesis was tested by 1) modulating total testosterone levels in individual snails and measuring the amount of the hormone stored as the fatty acid ester relative to the amount retained as free steroid and 2) measuring changes in esterified testosterone in a field population of snails during their reproductive cycle. Adult snails were experimentally manipulated to contain from ~36-300% the level of total testosterone measured in unmanipulated individuals. The amount of testosterone-fatty acid ester present in these organisms increased in direct proportion to the level of total testosterone, while, free testosterone levels remained relatively constant. These observations suggest that free testosterone levels are regulated in the snail by fatty acid esterification/de-esterification processes. Among field sampled snails, testosterone existed predominantly in the free, non-esterified form at the onset and end of the egg laying period. At other times, the majority of testosterone was sequestered as fatty acid esters. This study provides compelling evidence that free testosterone levels in the mud snail are regulated through fatty acid esterification/de-esterification processes and this regulatory function contributes to seasonal fluctuations in free testosterone levels.
10.2307/3226995| Cultured fragments of the hexactinellid sponge, Rhabdocalyptus dawsoni, were observed feeding on 1.0 m latex beads. Using contrast-enhanced video microscopy of live cultures, the events preceding, during, and after phagocytosis were observed. Particle ingestion occurred almost exclusively in flagellated areas where the water currents generated by the flagella of collar bodies could trap and hold particles against sponge tissue. Transmission electron microscopy of cultures fixed after feeding on latex beads showed that collar bodies themselves do not participate in particle phagocytosis. Rather, it is the primary and, probably, the secondary reticula of the trabecular reticulum in the flagellated chamber wall which effect phagocytosis. The intact sponge's tissue organization appears admirably suited for particle capture, and these sponges are likely to be, at least in part, particle feeders in their natural habitat. 
3701499|A new species of Clavagellidae, Bryopa aligamenta, from Okinawa, Japan, is described. The species is endolithic in living corals, with the left valve cemented to the crypt wall, as in all clavagellids. The free right valve exhibits an unusual growth pattern, with commarginal lines seemingly arising from the posterior valve margin and extending towards the anterior. This results from: (i) progressive anterior erosion of the umbones, probably as a consequence of the boring process; (ii) the apparent migration posteriorly, as the umbones are eroded, of the dorso-ventral growth axis of the shell; and (iii) enhanced posterior inter-commarginal growth. Unlike other clavagellid genera and species, however, there is no discernible primary ligament, at least in the adult. It is possible, however, that if a juvenile ligament were present (as in B. lata), it too would be lost as a consequence of antero-dorsal erosion during boring. To retain valve alignment in the absence of a primary ligament, and possibly upon reaching an adult size, the mantle lays down alternating layers of calcium carbonate and proteinaceous periostracum onto the interior surface of the shell to thicken it, most noticeably marginally and, especially, posteriorly. The two valves are united dorsally, therefore, by thin layers of periostracum that probably exert a minimal opening force. B. aligamenta is, however, further characterised by large adductor, palliai, and siphonal retractor muscles so that the entire animal is encased tightly within an internally strengthened shell within a crypt. Movement must be minimal, blood being pumped into palliai haemocoels to push open the valves and extend the siphons. Despite a suggestion to the contrary, Bryopa is retained in the Clavagellidae, its unusual growth processes resulting from an endolithic life style within living corals. The fossil clavagellid Stirpulina bacillus, from the Pliocene/Pleistocene of Palermo, Sicily, Italy, was, unlike Bryopa aligamenta and other clavagellids, endobenthic, with a long adventitious tube and anterior watering pot superficially similar to species of Penicillidae, another family of the Clavagelloidea. Furthermore, as in all clavagellids only the left valve is fused into the fabric of the tube, the right being free within it. In all penicillids, both valves are fused into the fabric of their tubes. The watering pots of the fossil S. coronata, S. vicentina, and S. bacillus, moreover, are formed in a different manner to that of penicillids, by progressive encasement of the right valve inside the tube. In penicillids, the tube is secreted in a single event from the general mantle surface and the incorporation of both valves into its fabric. The constituent genera of the Clavagellidae thus constitute an example of parallel evolution with members of the Penicillidae.
3227181|The apex of the larval antenna of the crane fly Nephrotoma suturalis has 6 cuticular sensilla that stained intensely black with silver nitrate, which indicates their porosity. The large sensory cone is innervated by 14 neurons and the 3 small, smooth surfaced, conical pegs have 4 neurons each. The small and large cylindrical sensilla with their smooth walls and pleated apices are innervated by 4 and 6 nerve cells, respectively. The 15 sensilla on the apex of the maxillary palp are all stained by silver nitrate. These sensilla are of five types: 7 type A sensilla with a smooth surface, a distinct apical pore, and 3 or 4 neurons; 2 type B sensilla with a smooth surface, many pores, and 5 neurons; 1 type C sensillum with a grooved surface, a large apical pore, smaller pores in the grooves, and 6 neurons; 3 type D sensilla with a smooth surface, a grooved apex that is elongated into a projection, and 4 neurons; 2 type E sensilla with many pores covering the surface, leaf-like appearance, and 4 neurons. The number and types of sensilla are similar to those in other nematocerous larvae, but in the many different forms of sensilla and the structure of the sensory cone, these tipulid larvae differ greatly from other larvae of lower Diptera.
10.2307/3226886|Traditional scenarios of gastropod evolution suggest that the apical openings and marginal slits of keyhole limpets and other fissurellids play a key role in maintaining mantle cavity sanitation by facilitating separation of clean incurrent and waste-laden excurrent flow. The occurrence of animals that never develop excurrent openings or in which the opening is blocked by fouling organisms, however, indicates that this may not be the case. We examined the mantle cavity morphology and characterized the respiratory flow of individuals of Diodora aspera in which the apical opening was naturally or experimentally blocked. We found no evidence of damage to the mantle cavity or associated organs. Water entered ventro-posteriorly to the gill tips, which were extended beyond the mantle margin, and exited over the head. Thus the apical opening is not necessary for the effective removal of wastes. The opening is necessary, however, to induce passive flow through the mantle cavity. We suggest that this function of the apical opening may have been as significant as its role in sanitation for the evolution of fissurellid gastropods.
3227237|Larvae of the freshwater mussel Utterbackia imbecillis metamorphose to juveniles either during their attachment to a host fish, or in vitro in a culture medium. This transformation includes degeneration of larval structures and development of the juvenile morphology. Early in metamorphosis the cells comprising the larval mantle enlarge and project into the mantle cavity, forming a structure referred to as the mushroom body. Its cells, which are ultrastructurally very similar to digestive cells of adult bivalves, are involved in pinocytosis or phagocytosis of the larval adductor muscle and of tissue from the host fish that is enclosed between the larval shells. Ingested material is passed from pinosomes to heterophagosomes which in turn fuse with heterolysosomes, where final degradation of ingested material occurs. Acid phosphatase activity was detected in heterophagosomes and heterolysosomes of all animals examined. In larvae that metamorphosed in vitro, the apical cytoplasm of the cells of the mushroom body, and the extracellular spaces among them, also exhibited acid phosphatase activity. Larvae reared on a host fish accumulated substantial deposits of lipids and glycogen within larval mantle cells during metamorphosis, whereas larvae reared in vitro did not. The larval mantle cells which constitute the mushroom body appear to be the primary sites of intracellular digestion of the larval adductor muscle and host tissue during metamorphosis.
3227124| The zebra mussel is an introduced fouling organism in North American inland waters. This field study tested whether natural biofilms, formed by covering substrata with a 100-m mesh that allows microorganisms to attach and films to develop in the absence of postveligers, influenced the attachment of zebra mussel postveligers to artificial surfaces. Low-wettable polycarbonate and wettable glass surfaces were used in the experiments over four field seasons to study biofilm formation (1997-1998) and mussel attachment (1998-2000). The presence of the mesh did not quantitatively affect biofilm development on either substratum as determined by microscopic direct counts and colony-forming units on R2A agar. Natural biofilms on polycarbonate surfaces positively influenced postveliger attachment compared to substrata that initially had no film (ANOVA, p-values ranged from .05 to .001). Biofilms did not influence postveliger attachment to glass surfaces (ANOVA, p>.05). Attachment to both substrata was similar on surfaces with and without previously settled postveligers. Based on these results, we conclude that biofilms can enhance postveliger attachment to some but not all artificial surfaces. 
10.2307/3226994| Three-dimensional images of the choanosome of hexactinellid sponges can help in explaining how these sponges mix cellular and syncytial tissues in a fine cobweb-like network. Plastic replicas of the water canals show that Rhabdocalyptus dawsoni has large, highly branched incurrent canals, and equally large, although less branched, excurrent canals that are studded with 60 m-long flagellated chambers. Freeze-fractured, fixed specimens show the syncytial tissue, known as the trabecular reticulum, envelops cells in a thin collagenous mesohyl at the flagellated chambers in both R. dawsoni and Aphrocallistes vastus. Groups of archaeocytes are especially abundant in the mesohyl of R. dawsoni during summer months. A branch of the trabecular reticulum, the secondary reticulum, surrounds the collars in the flagellated chambers, effectively forcing water to be drawn through the collar microvilli. Another branch, the inner membrane, occupies up to 10% of flagellated chambers of sponges during all months of the year, but is especially prevalent in specimens which have been kept in sea water aquaria for several weeks. This three-dimensional view of hexactinellid tissues reinforces the conclusion that hexactinellid sponges be separated from other sponges at the subphylum level. 
4621886|Acochlidian gastropods combine several aberrant biological and morphological features. The poorly known Caribbean Tantulum elegans is one of the few opisthobranch species inhabiting a freshwater system, and the only one found in muddy interstices of a Caribbean mountain spring swamp. Morphological details of this tiny species were either unknown or not fully reliable, especially with regard to the complex central nervous and reproductive systems. We critically re-examined original paratype section series and prepared semi-thin serial sections of two additional paratypes. All organ systems were three-dimensionally reconstructed using AMIRA software. Our results show several discrepancies from the original description: the pharynx is a complex system of different muscles, but similar to that of other acochlidian species; the circulatory system shows a two-chambered heart; in the nervous system there are separate optic and rhinophoral ganglia, the latter innervating a pair of small sensory pits we assume to be Hancock's organs, and large aggregations of precerebral accessory ganglia were found. Nephropore, anus, and female gonopore open dextroventrally. To our surprise, adults of T. elegans are sequential hermaphrodites with an unusual androdiaulic reproductive system and a well-developed cephalic penial complex. In T. elegans, there is a mix of character conditions found in different genera, e.g., Pseudunela and Asperspina. The phylogenetic position of T. elegans still remains unclear.
10.2307/3226836| Leidyana migrator n. sp. (Apicomplexa: Eugregarinida) is described from the alimentary tract of the Madagascar hissing cockroach. Gromphadorhina portentosa (Insecta: Blattodea), taken from research colonies in Texas. This is the first species of Leidyana described from a cockroach, and the complete life cycle and development are presented. Although trophozoites and gamonts of L. migrator overlap morphometrically with those of the 2 most similar congeners, L. erratica and L. oviformis, each of the 3 species displays unique characters. The lanceolate epimerite of L. oviformis distinguishes this species from L. migrator and L. erratica, which possess a simple, globular epimerite. Leidyana migrator and L. erratica are separated by differences in their gametocysts, dehiscence, and oocysts. The gametocysts of L. migrator are elliptoid with an average length of 1,066 m; they dehisce through 6 spore tubes, releasing dolioform oocysts measuring S m by 4 m. In contrast, the gametocysts of L. erratica are spherical and 260-350 m in diameter; they dehisce through 1-12 spore tubes, releasing dolioform oocysts measuring 6 m by 3 m. 
10.2307/3226923|The little-known bryozoan Membranipora eburnea Hincks is redescribed and designated the type species of the new genus Jellyella. The twinned ancestrula of this malacostegan-grade cheilostome places it within the Membraniporidae, along with Membranipora and Biflustra. Jellyella is distinguished by the presence of intricately branched processes (spinules) projecting into the zooidal chambers, and a calcitic skeletal ultrastructure of transversely arranged, elongate spindles. The "Gulf weed bryozoan," Membranipora tuberculata (Bosc), is also assigned to the new genus as Jellyella tuberculata. Both species of Jellyella seem primarily to encrust floating substrates: based on available museum material. J. eburnea usually grows on drifting shells of dead individuals of the cephalopod Spirula but can also be found as an epizoan of the floating gastropod Janthina and on algae; J. tuberculata is normally an epiphyte of Sargassum. Collections of Spirula shells from beaches around the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic Oceans are commonly encrusted by J. eburnea but very seldom by any other bryozoans. Jellyella is therefore interpreted as a rare example of a pseudoplanktonic genus among the typically benthic bryozoans.
10.2307/3227020|Tropocyclops jamaicensis n. sp. is the most numerous copepod and frequently the most numerous metazoan of phytotelmata in leaf axils of terrestrial bromeliads of the Cockpit Country, Jamaica. Distinctive apomorphies of this species, particularly the naked pediger 5 and the 2 setae on leg 5, necessitate emending the diagnosis of the genus Tropocyclops. Tropocyclops jamaicensis occurred in 63% of bromeliads sampled, but the next most numerous copepod, Ectocyclops phaleratus, occurred in 17.5%. In colonization experiments, T. jamaicensis, along with ostracodes and chironomid and mosquito larvae, invaded some plants within 2 to 5 weeks. After 13 weeks, 8 of 10 plants harbored populations of this copepod.
3701458|Myxozoans belonging to the recently described class Malacosporea parasitize freshwater bryozoans during at least part of their life cycle. There are at present only two species described in this class: Buddenbrockia plumatellae and Tetracapsuloides bryosalmonae. The former can exist as vermiform and sac-like stages in bryozoan hosts. The latter, in addition to forming sac-like stages in bryozoans, is the causative agent of salmonid proliferative kidney disease (PKD). We undertook molecular and ultrastructural investigations of new malacosporean material to further resolve malacosporean diversity and systematics. Phylogenetic analyses of 18S rDNA sequences provided evidence for two new putative species belonging to the genus Buddenbrockia, revealing a two-fold increase in the diversity of malacosporeans known to date. One new malacosporean is a vermiform parasite infecting the bryozoan Fredericella sultana and the other occurs as sac-like stages in the rare bryozoan, Lophopus crystallinus. Both bryozoans represent new hosts for the genus Buddenbrockia. Our results have established that the malacosporean which infected F. sultana was not a vermiform stage of T. bryosalmonae, although it was collected from a site endemic for PKD. Ultrastructural investigation of new material of B. plumatellae revealed the presence of numerous external tubes associated with developing polar capsules, confirming that the absence of external tubes should no longer be considered as a character of the class Malacosporea.
4621901|Electron-dense organelles (EDOs) are a characteristic feature of marine annelids adapted to hydrogen sulfide, but little is known about their origin or fate or the mechanism by which they are formed. In this study, transmission electron microscopy was used to determine the appearance, quantity, and size distribution of EDOs in body wall epithelium of the sulfide-tolerant annelid Branchioasychis americana. EDOs were enclosed by either one or two lipid bilayers with a typical diameter in the range of 0.4-1.2 m. The contents included amorphous electron-dense material, lamellated membranes, and distinct membrane-bounded structures. In animals fixed immediately after collection from the mudflat, the EDO quantity was 0.148
10.2307/3226921| The surface features of larvae of a gordian worm, Chordodes morgani (Gordioidea), studied by scanning electron microscopy, were compared to those of other larval nematomorphs, until now known only from light microscopical studies. Larvae of C. morgani have a cylindrical body with 22 to 24 superficial segments, superficially divided at an ectodermal septum into a presoma and a trunk with a roughly 90 bend. Papillae are located distally on the proboscis, the base of which is surrounded by circles of spines or scales. Although the major features of the larvae are similar to those known in other species, details visible with SEM hold promise for providing useful diagnostic characters. 
10.2307/3227061|Classical anatomical investigations of the spengelid enteropneust Schizocardium brasiliense suggested that the hypobranchial ridge in the ventral midline of the pharynx is a homolog of the chordate endostyle. A re-investigation of pharyngeal anatomy and histology of S. brasiliense does not support this homology. Instead, the dorsal epibranchial ridge of the pharynx of S. brasiliense provides anatomical and histological correspondences with the ventral endostyle of chordates. The potential homology of a dorsal structure in Enteropneusta with a ventral one in Chordata is consistent with a recent evolutionary model for dorsal-ventral axis inversion in the evolution of chordates. Accepting this homology requires rejecting homology between the enteropneust stomochord and neurocord (collar cord) and the chordate notochord and nerve cord, respectively, but suggests a homology between the enteropneust ventral nerve cord and the chordate neural tube. We propose that functional inversion of the dorsal-ventral body axis occurred in the vertebrate clade and that the ancestor of the vertebrates lacked dorsal-ventral axis preference, as illustrated by the functional biology of protochordates. Moreover, body axis shifts may have occurred elsewhere in deuterostomes, particularly in the evolution of Echinodermata and Ascidiacea.
23016706|Black corals (Cnidaria: Antipatharia) are ecologically important members of the sessile invertebrate fauna, but due to their typical deep-water environments (> 50 m), very little is known about their basic biology, including reproduction. We used histological techniques to examine the sexual reproduction of members of eight species of antipatharians collected from the Hawaiian Islands over a wide depth range (101327 m). Gametes of all species examined were found in association with the primary transverse mesenteries, which in some cases reached into the cavity of lateral tentacles. Specimens contained either spermatocysts or oocytes, but never both within the same individual, suggesting either a gonochoric or a sequentially hermaphroditic mode of reproduction. No developing embryos or larvae were observed in any of the samples, indicating that fertilization and larval development likely occur externally in the water column and not internally within polyps. We compared our results with previously published information on the sexual reproduction of antipatharians. Our review suggests that in antipatharians, more generally, (1) entire colonies are either female or male (although sequential hermaphroditism cannot be ruled out in most cases and has been reported previously for one species), (2) gametes are confined to the primary transverse mesenteries in most species, and (3) there is no evidence of internal fertilization. Further studies are needed to determine whether gonochorism or sequential hermaphroditism is more prevalent within the Antipatharia, whether dimorphic polyps occur within this taxonomic order, and to examine the reproductive seasonality and larval behavior of individual species.
3227178|A transmission electron microscope study of fresh and cryopreserved Nereis virens larvae at the three chaetiger stage is described with special emphasis on examining the structure of the photoreceptors and surface ciliation of the head, the midgut epithelium, and muscle cells. Complex ectodermal structures such as the developing rhabdomeric adult eyes were unaffected by the cryopreservation procedure. Some loss of surface cilia on the prostomium was observed but is not life-threatening though it may restrict ciliary swimming in the recovered larvae. Loss of pigment from the prostomium is caused by osmotic stress. Structural damage was observed in the digestive tissues of the larvae cryopreserved before or after the optimum stage of development. This damage is potentially more serious and may account for the relatively short time period during development where cryopreservation can be successfully applied.
3227234|This study is focused on the formation and function of sagittocysts, which are secretions typical of members of the acoel family Sagittiferidae. The needle-shaped sagittocysts are produced in specialized gland cells (sagittocytes) whose distal necks are often surrounded by muscle mantles. Contraction of the muscle mantle ejects the sagittocyst. We establish a model for the development of sagittocytes and muscle mantles out of the stem cell pool of the new acoel species Symsagittifera corsicae. We used various techniques, especially interference and phase-contrast microscopy of living specimens as well as labeling of the body-wall musculature, for species characterization. In addition to the morphological features, we provide the third complete sequence of the 18S rDNA gene in the family Sagittiferidae.
10.2307/3226952|Scanning electron microscopical observations on the papillae of the proboscideal organs of Glycinde armigera present the first clear picture of the morphology of these complex structures and reveal some misconceptions based on earlier light-microscope studies. The number of papillae in area III showed a greater range (2 to 8 rows) than previously reported, and only one row of papillae was present in area IV. Tufts of cilia were recessed within subapical, cuplike depressions on the papillae of all areas. The proboscideal papillae of G. armigera appear to provide traction for burrowing and may participate in food gathering.
3227203|Sipunculans are a phylum of non-segmented, marine worms. Although they are well characterized morphologically, relationships within the phylum and the relationship of Sipuncula to other spiralian phyla have been strongly debated. I analyzed representatives of 13 of 17 described genera using a 654-bp fragment of the mitochondrial gene, cytochrome c oxidase subunit I, to construct the first intraphylum phylogenetic hypothesis for sipunculans based on molecular sequence data. Within the phylum, tree topologies are loosely congruent with a previously published morphological analysis, except that the monotypic genus Phascolopsis occurred within the Golfingiaformes as a sister group to, or nested within, the Themistidae. Phylogenetic analyses, including 30 sequences from additional invertebrate taxa, suggest that sipunculans are most closely related to the Annelida (including Echiura). A previously proposed sipunculan-molluscan relationship is not supported. While not universally accepted, this hypothesis is consistent with other recent and past data on phylum-level relationships.
3227150|Our study was conducted to determine whether small invertebrates of the shredder and collector feeding guilds would preferentially colonize fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) from fast-decaying species of leaves in central Florida streams. Bags of FPOM (0.2-1 mm) generated from maple, elm, sweetgum, and water oak leaves, as well as artificial Styrofoam, were suspended at two sites in Poley Creek, a 1st-order sand-bottomed stream. Three replicate bags of each type were collected from each site after 7, 14, and 28 d, and bacteria and invertebrates present were counted. Bacteria colonized maple and elm in significantly higher numbers than sweetgum, oak and Styrofoam. The amphipod Gammarus tigrinis accounted for 97% of all shredders in FPOM bags, and 63% of total invertebrates. Deposit-feeding chironomids comprised 87% of collectors and 28% of total invertebrates. No other taxon comprised >2% of total invertebrates. Large numbers of invertebrates colonized in the first 7 d, but densities did not increase after Day 7. Both shredders and total invertebrates occurred in significantly greater densities on maple and elm than on sweetgum and oak. Amounts of FPOM remaining in bags after 28 d were significantly smaller for maple and elm (P<.05), suggesting that shredders were eating the FPOM. Collectors occurred in similar densities in all natural FPOM bags. Only a few individuals of either functional feeding group colonized Styrofoam bags, suggesting that FPOM was being colonized for its nutritional value rather than as a refuge from predation.
3227239|Stomatopods, like many marine crustaceans, rely on their sense of smell to detect prey and to find mates (Ache 1982; Zimmer-Faust 1989; Atema & Voigt 1995). In lobsters, crabs, crayfishes, prawns, leptostracans, anaspidans, mysids, amphipods, tanaids, isopods, ostracodes, phyllopods, and cumaceans (Heimann 1984; Hallberg et al. 1992), this detection of odors from distant sources involves specialized chemosensory setae called aesthetascs locates on the antennules. The external structure of stomatopod sensilla appears to follow the typical crustacean aesthetasc pattern, but their internal structure has not been previously examined. In this study, we use serial reconstruction from transmission electron microscopy to show that the stomatopod sensilla are aesthetascs. For chemoreception to occur, chemical-containing fluid must be very close to the surface of the aesthetascs, such that odor molecules can diffuse to chemoreceptors on the olfactory receptor neurons inside the aesthetasc. Flicking of stomatopod antennules maximizes fluid penetration near the parts of the sensilla where the cuticle is thinnest, and where the outer dendritic segments are most fully branched with the greatest surface area. Thus, the external and the internal structure of the stomatopod aesthetasc are "matched" to maximize the efficiency of odor arrival at the surface of the olfactory receptor neurons.
3227114|Both dorsal body tissue extracts and dorsal body-conditioned medium stimulated in vitro polysaccharide synthesis in albumen gland explants in Helisoma duryi. This activity is heat- and protease-resistant. Dorsal body tissue extracts and dorsal body-conditioned medium were passed through solid-phase extraction cartridges, then eluted with increasing concentrations of methanol (20%, 70%, and 100%) and the various eluates tested for their biological activity. An active factor was found in the 100% methanol wash from both dorsal body tissue extracts and the conditioned medium. In addition, another bioactive factor in the conditioned medium eluted with 70% methanol. The endocrine dorsal bodies in the freshwater snail H. duryi were maintained in vitro, and following incubation, the culture medium was collected and tested for the presence of ecdysteroids. Radioimmunoassay of the culture medium demonstrated the presence of ecdysteroid-like immunoreactivity, suggesting the dorsal bodies are capable of secreting ecdysteroids in vitro. Identification of released ecdysteroids by HPLC/RIA revealed a number of immunoreactive fractions, which were tested for bioactivity. To test for possible physiological functions of ecdysteroids in Helisoma duryi, 20-hydroxyecdysone (a potent ecdysteroid in arthropods) was injected into non-egg laying (virgin) snails. Injections of ecdysteroid induced low egg-laying activity and the maturation of oocytes in the ovotestis. Incubation of albumen glands with ecdysteroid stimulated polysaccharide synthesis. The results are discussed in relation to the possible function(s) of ecdysteroids in pulmonate snails.
3227248| The reproduction of a recently described spionid polychaete, Polydora robi, is examined from the Philippines. Adults inhabit a burrow in the apex of gastropod shells occupied by hermit crabs. Females were found to deposit broods of 18-94 egg capsules in the summer (June-August) and winter months (January-March) sampled. Paired or single egg capsules are attached by stalks to the inside wall of the burrow and contain 40-106 eggs which average 97 m in diameter. The total number of eggs per brood ranges from 941-8761 eggs and is positively correlated with the total number of segments and length of female worms. Adults of P. robi are polytelic, producing 9 successive broods over a 3-month period; a mean of 6.7 d was exhibited between broods in the laboratory. Females utilize sperm stored in the seminal receptacles during successive spawnings. Development occurs within egg capsules until the 3segment stage, at which time the planktotrophic larvae are released. Juveniles of ~20 segments are competent to settle on gastropod shells inhabited by hermit crabs. Members of P. robi are relatively fecund, semicontinuous breeders; the life-cycle in this species is similar to the only other known obligate polydorid commensal of hermit crabs. 
3701509| The present experiments are part of a larger study designed to investigate the influence of husbandry parameters on the life history of the ramshorn snail, Marisa cornuarietis, in order to identify suitable husbandry conditions for maintaining multi-generation populations in the laboratory for use in ecotoxicological testing. In this paper we focus on the effects of a combination of food types and feeding frequencies (i.e., the frequency with which the snails were offered food) on juvenile growth and survival at different temperatures. Offspring produced in the laboratory by wild specimens of M. cornuarietis, from Puerto Rico, were used to test the effects of three types of food (lettuce, alginate with fish food, alginate with snail mix) fed at three frequencies (given ad libitum on 4/4, 2/4, or 1/4 d) on juvenile survival and growth. The 4-d feeding regimens were repeated four times, giving a total of 16 d for the experiments. The experiments were conducted at two temperatures (22 and 25C) under a 12 h light: 12 h dark photoperiod. Juvenile growth rates increased with increasing feeding frequency for all food types. The most rapid growth rates occurred in the high-frequency lettuce treatments and the slowest growth rates in the low-frequency lettuce and alginate with snail mix treatments. Juvenile snails grew faster at 25 than at 22C, and mortality was about twice as high at the lower temperature. Growth rates were used to provide a rough estimate of time to maturity, which was determined to take about twice as long at 22 than at 25C. The results showed that lettuce is the best food if supplied in abundance, but effects on growth are very dependent on feeding frequency and temperature. We conclude that 25C is a more appropriate temperature for maintaining populations than 22C, that lettuce provides a suitable food source, and that food should be supplied continuously for husbandry and toxicity testing of populations of M. cornuarietis. 
10.2307/3226918| Gemmules of the freshwater sponges Eunapius fragilis, Ephydatia muelleri, and Spongilla lacustris from southern New England differ in their resistance to exposure to extremely low temperatures. Eunapius fragilis appears to be most tolerant, with greater than 80% of the gemmules surviving exposure to -70 C for one hour. Ephydatia muelleri is slightly less tolerant, and Spongilla lacustris is the least tolerant with no gemmules surviving exposure to temperatures lower than -10 C. Gemmules of both Eunapius fragilis and Ephydatia muelleri lose cold tolerance with storage at 3 to 5 C for more than a few months, most probably due to the loss of cryoprotectants such as sorbitol. 
25623066|In many coastal environments, variation in salinity and organismal responses to that variation are important determinants of the distribution and abundance of species. This study examined the effects of acute salinity changes on sea stars (Pisaster ochraceus) collected from a high-salinity site (Bamfield, BC) and a low-salinity site (Vancouver, BC). Sea stars from both sites were exposed to salinities ranging 15-30 psu. Following a 24-h exposure, the osmolality, sodium concentrations, and chloride concentrations in the perivisceral fluid all varied directly with salinity and were very close to the treatment salinities in both the Bamfield and Vancouver sea stars. The righting response (measured as an activity coefficient) was salinity dependent, with the lowest activity levels at a salinity of 15 psu. Activity coefficients did not vary between the two source populations. Feeding rates on mussels were strongly salinity dependent, but the salinity pattern was population specific. Bamfield sea stars fed the most at 30 psu, whereas Vancouver sea stars fed the most at 20 psu. High post-experimental mortalities were observed in Bamfield sea stars that had been exposed to a salinity of 15 psu; no such mortality was observed in Vancouver animals. This study provides evidence that the sea stars from the lower salinity environment had been able to acclimatize or adapt to low-salinity conditions. However, the results also suggest that there are limits to this tolerance, and that future changes in salinity may have important consequences for marine communities via alteration of keystone predation.
3227072|The removal of rare or endangered individuals from wild populations for evaluation of genetic composition may have deleterious consequences to these populations. As a viable alternative, we recommend limb removal as a means to obtain tissue for genetic analysis of rare amphipods. The effect of limb amputation on the survival of amphipods has not been previously studied. Our experiments showed that survival of Gammarus troglophilus, a common amphipod of Midwest caves and springs, was similar (p=.74) between control (unmanipulated) and experimental (amputation of 1 or 2 of the walking legs, pereopods 5 through 7) groups of amphipods. After 42 d, 25 of 26 amphipods in the experimental group had regenerated limbs that were half the size of the original appendage. Post-amputation survival could allow sampling of tissue for genetic analyses without sacrificing individuals, an important asset when working with species that are endangered or for which population sizes are very small.
3227173|The ultrastructure of paraspermatogenesis is examined in the littorinid subfamily Littorininae, with special emphasis on Littoraria (Palustorina) articulata (Philippi 1846). In particular the study focuses on the fate of the nucleus and origin of the rod bodies during parasperm development. Parasperm of the Littorininae are rounded or oblong cells, which undergo an abortive meiosis and eliminate part of the nucleus but often retain a nuclear remnant. The cytoplasm is filled with numerous spherical vesicles in all Littorininae, but in Littoraria (and in certain species of Nodilittorina, Tectarius and Cenchritis) dense 'rod-bodies' also occur. Littoraria (Palustorina) are unique in possessing a flagellum-like structure termed the 'pseudotrich', which lacks an axoneme but contains microtubules during its development. Paraspermatogonia differ from euspermatogonia in the structure of the nucleus and in the extensive rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) and swollen cytoplasm. Two types of secretions develop in Littoraria: (1) numerous, spherical granules (composed of putative glycoprotein, also seen in other Littorininae) and (2) rhomboid granules (composition uncertain but reacting positively to RNA stains; these granules arising within RER cisternae close to the nucleus). As the rhomboid granules fuse to form the larger, rod-bodies (polygonal in cross section), the RER membrane enclosing the rod-bodies becomes confluent with the outer nuclear membrane, thereby forming a common compartment. Results of this study clearly show that the rod-bodies are secretions of the RER cisternae and not, as claimed in some light microscopic accounts, the product of fusion of eusperm nuclei which have entered the parasperm cytoplasm (either by active eusperm penetration or by phagocytosis). Developmental characteristics of littorinid parasperm show differences between species and may, in some cases, provide characters diagnostic of subgenera.
3227098|Two fluorescent calcium indicators, Calcium Green AM (CG) and Fura Red AM (FR), were used in conjunction with confocal microscopy to monitor hemocyte calcium dynamics following exposure to digenetic trematode larvae or relevant bioactive compounds. Changes in intracellular calcium levels, as measured by fluctuations in the CG/FR ratio, were correlated with hemocyte morphological changes. Hemocytes exposed to culture medium remained spread and had few calcium transients. However, following exposure to sporocysts, sporocyst secretory-excretory products, or small rediae of Echinostoma paraensei in culture medium, significantly more hemocytes both rounded up and exhibited calcium transients, though some hemocytes showed one response or the other but not both. Hemocytes did not respond significantly to large rediae, to sporocysts of another digenean (Schistosoma mansoni), or to bacterial lipopolysaccharides. Exposure to either zymosan particles or mannose BSA provoked responses similar to those seen with sporocysts of E. paraensei. Caffeine caused rounding but no calcium transients, and phorbol myristate acetate provoked calcium transients but no rounding. The results show that sporocysts and small rediae of E. paraensei have pronounced effects on hemocyte rounding and calcium dynamics, and that these two events can occur independently of one another. This suggests that parasites may influence hemocytes in at least two separate ways.
10.2307/3226915|The free swimming larvae of many marine invertebrates actively respond to light. Light cues can be used to regulate position in the water column and to facilitate encountering sites suitable for metamorphosis. We examined the ontogeny of larval phototaxis and the ontogeny of metamorphic competency in larvae from three congeneric species of bryozoans. Larvae of Bugula neritina are positively phototactic on emergence from the brood chamber, whereas larvae of B. simplex and B. stolonifera appear initially photoneutral when populations of larvae are examined. Larvae of all three species become photonegative with time. Temporally coincident with this change to negative phototaxis is an increase in the competency of larvae to initiate metamorphosis. This observation suggests that these events are either physiologically linked or co-occurring, but independent developmental processes. We tested these hypotheses by artificially changing the sign of phototaxis from positive to negative using 10
3227126|Among malacostracan crustaceans, intracerebral ocelli were first discovered in Isopoda, but they have been more recently reported from a crayfish (Cherax destructor) and a sandhopper (Talitrus saltator). This electron microscopic study increases the number of crayfish taxa in which intracerebral ocelli are now known to occur by two: Astacidae and Cambaridae. These photoreceptors are always integrated into the anteromedio-dorsal part of the brain and are not visible externally. Each ocellus is made up of 4-5 photoreceptor cells and is characterized by the presence of a fused rhabdom. The occurrence of different kinds of lysosomes in the cytoplasm is indicative of metabolic activity and perhaps membrane turnover. One typical feature of crayfish ocelli is their extraordinary variability in number. This trait is exemplified by individuals of Pacifastacus leniusculus, where as many as 14 ocelli were identified in a single brain. The arrangement of the ocelli is often not symmetrical with regard to the brain's midline and the ocelli always lack dioptric structures. Thus, it is difficult to see how they are involved in image formation. However, further research is needed to determine the precise role of these "hidden" receptors.
23016665|Clionaids are excavating sponges, which live in and grow into calcareous substrates. We studied the sexual reproductive cycles of two clionaid sponges coexisting in a Mediterranean coastal basin (Porto Cesareo, Italy), Cliona viridis and Cliona celata, by analyzing monthly tissue samples of ten specimens of each species collected over a 2-year period. From May to June of the second study year, supplementary samples were taken weekly. Up to 90% of the specimens of C. viridis and 70% of those of C. celata sampled were reproductive during the study. In both species, but particularly in C. viridis, reproductive investment, measured as the percentage of sponge tissue occupied by gametes, was high. Oocytes were present almost year-round in both species, except for a 14-month period after zygote release. In contrast, spermatogenesis occurred most frequently in May in both species, when (May June) oocytes reached their greatest diameters. Cliona viridis and C. celata are hermaphrodites, with oocytes and spermatic cysts coexisting in 10% of the studied individuals in the first year of the study, and in 30% during the second. No developing embryos or larvae were incubated in the sponge tissues, and fertilization was not observed. Temperature may play a role in triggering some important phases of the reproduction of these Cliona, such as oocyte maturation and spermatogenesis, which occurred when water temperature increased from 17C to 25C between May and June.
3701475|The spine morphology of all established species of Diadema and Echinothrix, including 2 color morphs of E. calamaris, were examined externally and internally via transverse sectioning to identify diagnostic species features and to assess the morphological relationship between species. Forty-nine different morphological characters were measured and analysed using ordination by multi-dimensional scaling (MDS) and cluster analysis. Specimens of Diadema paucispinum and D. setosum had very distinct spine structures. In D. paucispinum, the spines were more robust than those of other species of Diadema. This was evident in the spine's internal structure, with large, closely packed solid wedges, a small axial cavity, and rings of trabeculae throughout the spine's length. The spines in D. setosum were distinctive because of their length in relation to test size and the reduced flaring of their verticillations. The spines of other members of this genus were very similar to each other. Without careful sectioning, the spines from specimens of D. antillarum, D. ascensionis, D. mexicanum and D. savignyi were difficult to differentiate. The internal structures of spines for each species did, however, possess a combination of features that differentiated the species. Such features included the shape, orientation, and number of solid wedges, the presence or absence of spokes and rings of trabeculae between the solid wedges, and the presence or absence of tissue within the axial cavity. Individuals of Diadema palmeri also had spines morphologically similar to other species, however, the red pigmentation of these spines (in life and when preserved) made them easily distinguishable. The spine structures of the 2 species of Echinothrix were starkly different, while the white and brown color morphs of E. calamaris had morphologically distinctive ambulacral and interambulacral spines. The blunt, open-tipped interambulacral spines, with reticular tissue present in the axial cavity of the white color morph, were easily distinguished from the pointed, closed-tipped spines, with a hollow axial cavity found in the brown color morph. Such differences indicate that the brown color morph is either a subspecies or a separate species. Taken together the data show that each species has significant morphological differences in the structure of the spines. It is evident from our data that spine morphology is a useful tool to differentiate these commonly confused species.
40206245|In marine soft-sediment habitats, tissue loss by infuanal invertebrates can provide significant energetic input to higher trophic levels, have substantial impacts on individual behavior, growth, and fecundity, and resulting changes in bioturbation rates can secondarily affect community dynamics. The degree to which a community is affected by such sublethal predation depends in part on whether injured individuals can regenerate and on the speed at which they do so. Previously, we demonstrated differences in the rate of anterior segment and palp regeneration by the spionid polychaetes Pygospio elegans and Dipolydora quadrilobata. The current study examined the morphology of the anterior segment and palp regeneration in these species using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and indirect immunohistochemistry with confocal laser scanning microscopy at 3, 6, 9, and 12 d post-ablation. Antibodies for acetylated oc-tubulin and the neural tetrapeptide FMRFamide were used to label the regenerating nervous system. SEM revealed that the morphology of anterior tissue regeneration was similar for both species, but the ciliated food groove tended to form sooner on palps in P. elegans than on those of D. quadrilobata. In both species, palp regeneration and ciliated food groove formation were faster when only palps were removed. A shortened ciliated food groove is likely to reduce particle contact and transport efficiency in suspension and deposit feeding. Regenerating palp nerves were initially visible at 3 d following ablation of palps only, but at 6d following ablation of five anterior segments. Following ablation of anterior segments, the regenerating nervous system was largely complete by 9d, nuchal organs were innervated by 6d, and processes of palp sensory cells were visible at 12d. Contact chemoreception by sensory cells on the palps may be diminished during the early stages of regeneration, but chemoreception of waterborne cues via the nuchal organ should not.
10.2307/3226940|Larvae of many echinoderms and other benthic marine invertebrates depend on ciliary suspension feeding for growth and development, but some larvae may be superior feeding devices (with consequences for variation in growth, size, and fitness). I measured differences in feeding performance among larvae of 9 echinoderm species from 4 taxonomic classes (Asteroidea, Ophiuroidea, Holothuroidea, Echinoidea). Maximum clearance rates (relative to size of the feeding structure) of some larvae were much higher than the rates of others, indicating substantial variation in feeding capabilities among larvae of similar size. In order to interpret these differences in feeding capability, I also give some preliminary data on larval form, development, and organic content. Although incomplete in several respects, these data do not indicate a simple relation between larval feeding and growth. This surprising result indicates that functional morphology is not always the most appropriate perspective from which to examine variation in growth and development of planktonic larvae.
23016259|Here we report on the first quantitative survey of morphological variation in the sea urchin Heliocidaris erythrogramma within Western Australia and distinguish between two subspecies found to co-occur in this region. We surveyed urchins at multiple spatial scales along the Western Australian coastline to assess variation in dermis and spine color and, using landmark-based geometric morphometrics, spine morphology. Both color and morphology proved to be useful for separating subspecies within Western Australia. There were four major color morphs: red dermis/violet spines (56%), red/violet-green (23%), red/ green (7%), and white/green (10%). Members of the first two color morphs had bulbous spines with wide, flattened tips, a morphology that is unique to Western Australia and characteristic of H. e. armigera, and members of the latter two consistently exhibited the narrow, pointed spines typical of specimens of H. e. erythrogramma, which has a broader distribution. In Western Australia, H. e. armigera was relatively abundant both within and among sites, but H. e. erythrogramma was found only in a few localized patches. Shifts in the relative abundance of these two subspecies occurred at fine spatial scales (< 5 km), although environmental correlates of these transitions were unclear. Contrary to expectations, neither dermis color nor spine morphology varied with relative wave exposure: individuals with a red dermis or thickened spine morphology occurred at most sites regardless of exposure, and while white dermis and thinner spines only occurred at high-exposure sites, these features were not common across the majority of exposed sites. Both color morph frequencies and spine morphology remained stable within sites over the 3-year duration of this study. While the ecological significance of this morphological variation remains unclear, the consistency of the association between color and spine morphology, occurring across fine spatial scales, suggests that strong environmental or genetic factors are involved in maintaining morphological differentiation between these two subspecies.
4621904|The toxic effect of carbamate insecticide carbaryl on Spodoptera exigua (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) larvae was examined. Insects appeared to be highly sensitive to it; numerous malfunctions and malformations were observed. The first ultrastructural alterations, including biological membrane swelling, nuclear condensation, and disintegration, and abnormalities around the mitochondria were observed even before massive mortality was noted. Scanning electron microscopy revealed changes in cuticle. Carbaryl depleted the wet weight of fat body mass and changed (in most of the cases elevated) the activity of antioxidant enzymes. The majority of these malformations are rather non-specific and are common among animals exposed to xenobiotics. However, they all suggest serious disruptions in metabolism, in addition to indicating that reactive oxygen species may play an important role in the toxic effect of carbaryl.
10.2307/3227040|In the many species in which breeding between close kin yields deleterious effects (inbreeding depression), outbreeding is promoted by various mechanisms, such as kin recognition and, in hermaphrodites, barriers to self-fertilization. When the cost of inbreeding is not too high, hermaphrodites will be selected to self. The sexually reproducing, simultaneous hermaphroditic flatworm Dugesia polychroa does not self-fertilize, suggesting that selfing is too costly in this species. To ascertain whether kin recognition exists as a behavioral mechanism to avoid inbreeding in D. polychroa, experiments were designed using two genetically identical regenerates, or clonemates, from a single halved worm. The mating behavior of clonemates vs. unrelated worms was recorded, in pairs and in triads consisting of two clonemates and one unrelated worm. No clear differences in frequency or duration of copulations could be demonstrated between clonemates or unrelated worms, either in pairs or triads. Our results indicate that there is no kin recognition mechanism or selective mating for inbreeding avoidance in D. polychroa. We hypothesize that, in the field, dispersal in this species is sufficient to limit inbreeding.
3227175|Light and scanning electron microscopy were used to examine protoconch form in eight species of planktotrophic heterobranch larvae, including four nudibranch species with a coiled (type 1) protoconch, two nudibranch species with an inflated (type 2) protoconch, and two cephalaspid species with a coiled protoconch. The coiled protoconchs of the cephalaspids and nudibranchs have a similar form at hatching, and shell growth up to metamorphic competence is hyperstrophic. Shell added to coiled protoconchs during the larval stage overgrows all but the left wall of the initial protoconch that exists at hatching. The entire protoconch of cephalaspids, including overgrown areas, is retained through metamorphosis. However, during later larval development in nudibranchs with a coiled protoconch, overgrown shell is completely removed by dissolution. As a result, regardless of whether nudibranch larvae hatch with an inflated or coiled protoconch type, the protoconch is a large, hollow cup at metamorphic competence. The protoconch of nudibranchs is shed at metamorphosis and absence of a post-metamorphic shell is correlated with absence of visceral coiling in this gastropod group. Internal dissolution of the coiled protoconch in nudibranchs allows the left digestive gland to uncoil prior to metamorphic shell loss. Retention of overgrown protoconch whorls in cephalaspids allows the attachment plaque of the pedal muscle to migrate onto the parietal lip of the post-metamorphic shell. Release from this constraint in nudibranchs, in which the larval pedal muscles and the entire protoconch are lost at metamorphosis, may have permitted internal protoconch dissolution and precocious uncoiling of the visceral mass, as well as evolutionary emergence of the inflated larval shell type.
10.2307/3227055|The anatomy of the hadal, cocculinid limpet Macleaniella moskalevi is described. This species has a small, symmetrical, cap-shaped shell with a prominent internal transverse septum. As in other cocculinid genera, broad oral lappets and epipodial tentacles are present. Vestigial eyes are also present, but lack pigment and are modified into the basitentacular gland. The unique aortic vessel and associated hemal gland are present. Mantle cavity morphology is characteristic of cocculinid taxa; the cavity contains a pseudoplicatid gill, hypobranchial gland, and shallow brood pouch. Adults are simultaneous hermaphrodites, possessing a gonad with distinct egg and sperm producing regions; the common gonoduct is glandular. The single receptaculum seminis is connected to the anterior gonoduct via an enclosed duct. An enlarged right cephalic tentacle is inferred to function as a copulatory organ. The digestive gland occupies that part of the visceral mass confined above the septum and opens by way of two ducts into the distal esophagus. The anterior digestive tract is characterized by the presence of extremely well-developed esophageal pouches, a cuticularized sublingual pouch, and an unpaired jaw. A subradular sense organ and salivary glands are lacking. M. moskalevi is remarkably unique among previously described cocculinids in the anatomy of the reproductive tract and of the organs associated with the mantle cavity. In particular, the conformation of the nervous system in this species is unknown among cocculinids described thus far.
40663870|A new species in the cephalaspidean family Diaphanidae, Toledonia warenella n. sp., is described from New South Wales, Australia. Three-dimensional, computer-aided reconstructions of the anatomy, based on serial histological sections, show that T. warenella n. sp. has some features in common with other diaphanids, including lack of jaws, gizzard plates, or an operculum. A gill was not detected in the mantle cavity, which is dominated by large, triangular, opposed ciliary bands and a kidney with lobed edges. The buccal mass is large with thick, muscular walls, perhaps indicative of a suctorial feeding behavior. Comparison with other diaphanid genera was hindered by lack of detailed published anatomical data, but shell and radula morphology suggests a close relationship between the new species and the polar genera Toledonia and Bogasonia (members of Toledoniinae), and for this reason, it is provisionally included in Toledonia. The systematics of Diaphanidae are addressed in the light of the anatomical data presented here.
10.2307/3227021|Growth bands are evident in sections of the radial shields of Astrobrachion constrictum and on direct examination of dissected material. These bands result from the sequential addition of scales to the radial shields, a phenomenon not typical of ophiuroid radial shields. The rate of addition of these scales and the pattern of calcite deposition within them was studied using the skeletal growth marker calcein, and the validity of using the radial shield scales as age markers was examined. Individual brittle stars, injected intra-coelomically with calcein solution in the field at 6-month intervals, were collected and transverse fluorescent growth marks were found on radial shield scales. Measurement of the amount of stereom laid down between and after injections indicated the amount of growth in successive 6-month periods. Growth rate, as determined by measurement of the length of the radial shields, was faster during winter/spring, but the number of new radial shield scales increased during summer/autumn. Deposition of calcite within the scales also varied seasonally, greater amounts of large-pored stereom being deposited in winter. Growth bands were not laid down annually; as many as 11 bands appeared in a single year. Larger brittle stars did not appear to deposit new radial shield scales; 23 mm may be the maximum disc diameter for A. constrictum.
10.2307/3227018|Nuchal organs are known to be important sensory organs of many polychaete annelid species. This study describes the fine structure of the nuchal organs and associated glands of Parapionosyllis manca. In each nuchal organ, the ciliated epithelium of the nuchal cleft encloses an olfactory chamber through which sensory cilia and microvillus-like processes radiate. These sensory components originate from bulbs of sensory cells that are closely associated to form a sensory bundle. Each bundle of cells is encased in a palisade of support cells bearing motile cilia. Numerous secretory vesicles occur in the cytoplasm of the support cells and beneath the modified cuticle of the nuchal organ. The support cells of the olfactory region extend posteriorly to form the nuchal lobes, or glands. The cells are elongate and taper to a thin neck just before leaving the sensory area of the nuchal organ. There are essentially no nuclei in the sensory region as these and most of the other cellular organelles are concentrated in the lobes that extend into the body cavity but are contained by the epidermal basement matrix. The nuchal organ is innervated by the nuchal nerve, which extends posteriorly from the hind portion of the brain.
3227179|Attachment and gas exchange are design problems for the spheroidal egg masses that annelids and molluscs tether in sediments. At an intertidal site in Bodega Harbor, a high proportion of masses of arenicolid worms became detached, but they were not stranded higher than attached masses, and the embryos developed to advanced stages. The large masses, weighing 100-200 g, challenge predictions on limiting size for oxygen supply by diffusion. The estimated concentrations of embryos and thickness of the embryo layer exceed the limits predicted by a simple model for oxygen supply by diffusion from the surrounding water, but several features may enhance oxygen supply to embryos. (1) There is an internal cavity. Distal tears in the gel layer admit pulses of water into the center, thus adding an inner surface for gas exchange. (2) The motile embryos aggregate near the outer and sometimes inner surfaces of the gel layer. Embryos migrate in the gel toward regions of greater oxygen concentration. (3) Pennate diatoms colonize the masses, coating the surfaces and penetrating into the gelatinous matrix. Photosynthesis can exceed respiration when a mass is in the light. The pH in gel changes diurnally from a low of ~7 to as much as 9.5, indicating an excess of respiration over photosynthesis at night and at least sometimes an excess of photosynthesis over respiration by day.
10.2307/3227007|A new genus and species of South African sabellid polychaete, Terebrasabella heterouncinata, is described. The species lives in burrows in living gastropod shells and was first discovered in 1993 in red abalone aquaculture facilities in southern California. Shell abnormalities in cultured abalones, caused by heavy sabellid infestations, raised concerns about its potential impact on native gastropods. The species has eight thoracic and three abdominal setigers, and is distinguished by the following features: 1) two pairs of radioles; 2) uncini in thoracic setigers 2-6 acicular, with main fang surmounted by small teeth, companion setae present: 3) uncini in thoracic setigers 7-8 avicular, with no main fang and teeth in a rasp-like (serpuliform) arrangement; 4) abdominal uncini acicular with main fang surmounted by small teeth. Members of T. heterouncinata are simultaneous hermaphrodites, with sperm produced in setiger 8 and oocytes in setigers 9-10. Sperm have an elongate nucleus and short midpiece. Young are brooded in the adult burrow to a late larval stage with about 6 setigers, but are non-feeding, lacking a branchial crown. Released larvae crawl over the surface of the mollusc host shell and settle under the shell lip, in contact with the mantle tissue. Larvae are subsequently covered by shell from the host, forming the burrow. Crown formation and feeding commence after burrow formation. Cladistic analyses support the hypothesis that Terebrasabella is most closely related to Amphiglena, as part of the apomorphic Sabellinae clade, (Laonome (Terebrasabella, Amphiglena)). The early release of late-stage, non-feeding larvae, which enables the association of T. heterouncinata with gastropods, appears to have been independently derived in this species as well as several Amphiglena species.
3227078|A cladistic analysis of 87 morphological and life history characters of medusozoan cnidarians, rooted with Anthozoa, results in the phylogenetic hypothesis (Anthozoa (Hydrozoa (Scyphozoa (Staurozoa, Cubozoa)))). Staurozoa is a new class of Cnidaria consisting of Stauromedusae and the fossil group Conulatae. Scyphozoa is redefined as including those medusozoans characterized by strobilation and ephyrae (Coronatae, Semaeostomeae, and Rhizostomeae). Within Hydrozoa, Limnomedusae is identified as either the earliest diverging hydrozoan lineage or as the basal group of either Trachylina (Actinulida (Trachymedusae (Narcomedusae, Laingiomedusae))) or Hydroidolina (Leptothecata (Siphonophorae, Anthoathecata)). Cladistic results are highly congruent with recently published phylogenetic analyses based on 18S molecular characters. We propose a phylogenetic classification of Medusozoa that is consistent with phylogenetic hypotheses based on our cladistic results, as well as those derived from 18S analyses. Optimization of the characters presented in this analysis are used to discuss evolutionary scenarios. The ancestral cnidarian probably had a sessile biradial polyp as an adult form. The medusa is inferred to be a synapomorphy of Medusozoa. However, the ancestral process (metamorphosis of the apical region of the polyp or lateral budding involving an entocodon) could not be inferred unequivocally. Similarly, character states for sense organs and nervous systems could not be inferred for the ancestral medusoid of Medusozoa.
10.2307/3226852|Ultrastructure of the spermatophore and spermatozoon of the king crab Lithodes maja is described and illustrated. The spermatophore is a pedunculate structure of which the major components are the sperm-filled ampulla, stalk, pedestal, and a smaller accessory ampulla at the base of the main ampulla. Each spermatozoon features a subspherical, concentrically zoned acrosomal vesicle, capped by a centrally perforate operculum and posteriorly embedded in the cytoplasm, and a large globular nucleus. Three microtubular arms emerge from the cytoplasm below the acrosomal vesicle. The spermatophores and spermatozoa share many features with those of their nearest postulated relatives-members of the Paguridae (the genus Pagurus in particular). Spermatophore characters that link L. maja with pagurids are the presence of the accessory ampulla (synapomorphy, also with the parapagurids) and the homogeneous granular nature of the spermatophore wall. Sperm characters include the simple concentric zonation of the acrosomal vesicle, the shape and differentiation of the operculum (synapomorphic with Paguridae), the electron-dense plume in the base of the acrosomal chamber (synapomorphy with Pagurus), and absence of microvillar projections in this chamber. Several features in which L. maja differs from species in the genus Pagurus include the central perforation in the operculum, the absence of reticulated acrosome zones, and indications of an irregular flange in some planes of the acrosomal vesicle (possible autapomorphy).
3227262|Populations of Marenzelleria viridis in the Chester River (Kent County, Maryland) experience temperatures ranging from over 30 C in summer to near freezing in winter. Interestingly, M. viridis swims actively in winter. This observation led us to examine the relationship between locomotor capacity and temperature in individuals of M. viridis. Juvenile specimens were collected in February ("cold animals") and June ("warm animals"). Video analysis revealed that swimming is achieved by flexing the body in cyclic, helical waves. Wave frequencies were measured as an index of locomotor capacity at 5 C, 15 C, and 25 C. The mean wave frequencies of cold animals were 5.4 Hz at 5 C and 7.1 Hz at 15 C (Q<sub>10</sub> = 1.3); the mean wave frequencies of warm animals were 6.1 Hz at 15 C and 7.8 Hz at 25 C (Q<sub>10</sub> = 1.3). The effects of changes in water viscosity on wave frequency between 5-25 C were not significant. These results demonstrate that the temperature sensitivity of locomotor capacity in juvenile M. viridis is quite low. We conclude that low temperature sensitivity enables M. viridis to be active throughout the year.
4621899|Individual marking has long been used in many fields of biology. However, capture-mark-recapture (CMR) studies are not evenly distributed among taxonomic groups, with most studies focusing on vertebrates. For example, a limited number of studies have been conducted in gastropods, in sharp contrast to their important role as biological models or exploited natural resources. The lack of standard, validated marking techniques certainly contributes to the limited use of CMR. In this article, we evaluate two fundamental requirements for a marking technique to be suitable, i.e., tag loss (two experi) and impact on life-history traits (survival, growth, and fecundity, in three experiments). Five marking techniques for hard-shelled gastropods were tested in the freshwater snail Physa acuta (Pulmonata). The tag-loss rate per month was lower for glued plastic marks (0.01) than for paint marks (0.03-0.07), and the tag-loss rate varied among colors (gouache paint). Under laboratory conditions, the life-history traits were not significantly affected by marking. We thus recommend using glued plastic marks for long-term studies, and paint marks for mass marking, with double marking to account for tag-loss rate. Based on an extensive literature survey, we also review current CMR practices in gastropod studies and suggest general improvements that would prove useful in both this group and invertebrates in general.
4621891|Resource allocation between somatic and reproductive structures has important fitness consequences for individuals, and optimal trade-offs are expected to depend not only on mating system differences among species but also on levels of resource stress within species. We tested the prediction that polyandry (associated with increased sperm competition) will increase male reproductive allocation in bioluminescent fireflies in Photinus spp. by comparing the relative mass of testes, seminal vesicles, and reproductive accessory glands among a monandrous and several polyandrous species. In addition, we examined a single population of a polyandrous species, Photinus greeni, to see how reproductive allocation might shift between years in response to different levels of larval resource stress. As predicted, males of P. collustrans, a monandrous species, showed a fivefold lower allocation to sperm production and a 100-fold lower allocation to reproductive accessory glands compared with males from polyandrous species. We also found evidence within P. greeni of a trade-off between allocation either to reproduc or to somatic tissue; following larval resource stress, males eclosed at significantly shorter body lengths, yet showed a 35% increase in their reproductive allocation. These results demonstrate that mating systems strongly influence male allocation to reproductive accessory glands as well as to sperm production. Furthermore, these results suggest that under larval resource stress males of Photinus spp. increase their allocation to reproduction at the expense of somatic tissue, thus maximizing their ability to produce nuptial gifts required for reproductive success.
10.2307/3226896|The purpose of this investigation was to estimate inbreeding depression and self-fertilization depression from a comparison of self-fertilizing and outcrossing pulmonate snails, Physa heterostropha. We monitored lifetime survival and fecundity in 26 paired snails from three isofemale lines, using recessive alleles at two complementing albino loci to verify out-crossing. While demonstrably holding allosperm reserves, 10 of these individuals bore self-fertilized progeny at frequencies ranging from 1% to 35%. We designated these 10 individuals "mixed maters," leaving 16 individuals in our sample as more strictly outcrossers. Mixed maters and outcrossers produced comparable numbers of viable embryos per parent, and their embryos displayed negligible differences in survival to 7-14 days post-hatch. Outcrossing and mixed groups displayed nearly identical values for net reproductive rate (808 and 848 offspring/ parent, respectively) and intrinsic rate of natural increase (2.86 and 2.82 per four weeks). Thus in the benign environment of artificial culture, the low levels of self-fertilization occasionally displayed by the previously inseminated snails seem adaptively neutral. The fitness of both the outcrossers and mixed maters greatly exceeded that of 15 individuals isolated as juveniles and hence forced to self-fertilize entirely (R=286, r=1.57). There were no significant differences among selfers, outcrossers, and mixed-maters with respect to parental survival. But selfing parents produced fewer eggs over their lifetimes, higher proportions of apparently infertile eggs, and embryos of much-reduced survival. The estimated inbreeding depression of 0.353, together with an overall self-fertilization depression of 0.646, suggests strong selective pressure against self-fertilization, and evolution toward at least partial outcrossing.
40981232|We compared responses of adults and larvae of the brooding corals Pocillopora damicornis and Seriatopora hystrix to 12-h exposures to constant temperature treatments (21C, 28C, or 30C) and a treatment in which temperature fluctuated from 28 to 21C, simulating daily temperature variation generated by tidally driven upwelling in their natural habitat (Nanwan Bay, southern Taiwan). In all treatments, the maximum dark-adapted quantum yield of photosystem II (F V /F M ) of the larvae was ~49% lower than that of adult corals; F V /F M in the larvae also differed among temperature treatments, with the highest values in the fluctuating treatment. These results show that the larvae of at least P. damicornis are more sensitive to temperature than adults, and suggest that larvae are physiologically well suited to fluctuating temperature regimes. To assess whether the timing of larval release affected their performance, larvae of P. damicornis were compared among release days within a single reproductive event. Groups of larvae released on nine consecutive days differed significantly in size, Symbiodinium content, and F V /F M . This demonstration of functional differences among coral larvae that are released on different dates within a single reproductive event creates the potential for advantages to accrue from the coincidence of larval phenotypes with temporally varying conditions. Adult colonies may experience selective advantages by producing broods of functionally variable larvae, in order to match extreme phenotypes to unusual environmental conditions.
10.2307/3226943|The phylogenetic placement of the phylum Tardigrada among the Metazoa is somewhat uncertain. In analyses based on morphological characters, tardigrades are usually associated with arthropods but tardigrades have also been associated with a number of aschelminth phyla. We have sequenced the nearly complete 18S rRNA gene from a eutardigrade. Neighbor-Joining and Maximum-Parsimony analyses place tardigrades in a clade that includes arthropods and priapulids, but not other aschelminths.
10.2307/3227008|In 1993 an unusual sabellid polychaete was brought to our attention. It grossly deformed the shells of cultured abalones in some of the California abalone mariculture facilities. This worm is not native to California and was subsequently found in rocky intertidal and subtidal habitats in southern Africa, where it had not previously been recognized. The worm is hermaphroditic and has benthic larvae that are competent to settle within 12 h and soon secrete a mucous sheath. Development of the tentacular crown occurs within a week and generation time can be short, about one month. The worm has a unique association with host gastropods. Unlike all other known shell-fouling organisms, the sabellid routinely settles inside the aperture at the growing edge of the shell. The host responds by secreting a layer of nacre over the mucous sheath to form a tube enclosing the worm, whose crown of tentacles extends through the opening of the tube to the outer surface of the shell. Heavy infestations cause the cessation of linear growth of the host as prismatic shell deposition cannot be resumed after repeated settlement of larvae. The sabellid is not very host specific; many other California native gastropods are readily infested. Bivalves do not appear to be susceptible. Efforts to find a native California predator of the adult worms were not successful. The sabellid has caused great economic damage to some facilities commercially culturing abalones. An established population of this worm has been detected in California, and further risk of establishment and spread of this worm is great. Its unique biology suggests that it may be a useful experimental probe for studies of molluscan shell deposition and may also serve to reveal how molluscs defend themselves against organisms attempting to settle in and foul their apertures.
40206226|The syllid polychaete Odontosyllis phosphorea produces brilliant displays of green bioluminescence during mating swarms. We studied freshly collected individuals of O. phosphorea in the laboratory to understand the characteristics of its luminescent system. Light emission appeared as an intense glow after stimulation with potassium chloride, and was associated with secreted mucus. The mucus was viscous, blue in color, and exhibited a longlasting glow that was greatly intensified by addition of peroxidase or ammonium persulfate. The emission spectrum of mucus-associated bioluminescence was unimodal, with a maximum emission in the green spectrum between 494 and 504 nm. The fluorescence emission spectrum was similar, but the fluorescence intensity was low unless it originated from mucus that had already produced light, suggesting that the oxidized product of the light production is the source of fluorescence. Individuals as small as 0.5-1.0 nm produced bioluminescence that was mainly internal and not secreted as mucus. The early occurrence of bioluminescence in the life cycle of members of O. phosphorea suggests that bioluminescence may be used for purposes other than attracting mates. The luminous system was functional at temperatures as low as 2OC and was degraded above 4OC. Mixing hot and cold extracts of the mucus did not result in reconstituting original levels of light emission. Additionally, mucus samples exposed to oxygen depletion by bubbling with argon or nitrogen were still able to produce intense bioluminescence. These results suggest that bioluminescence from the mucus may involve a photoprotein rather than a luciferin-luciferase reaction.
3227070|Ultrastructural characteristics of the epidermis of 5 deep-sea vestimentiferan tube worms and an orbiniid worm were similar to those described from other organisms inhabiting sulfidic environments. The integument was composed of a simple or pseudostratified layer of columnar or cuboidal cells, covered by a cuticle of varying thickness, and rested on an extracellular matrix. Unusual mitochondrial morphology was observed in the peripheral region of the epidermis, characterized by an electron-dense matrix and granules. The abnormal size, shape, and reduced array of cristae in these mitochondria may have resulted from environmental stress. Mitochondria in the inner epidermal layers, where they are more protected from sulfide exposure, displayed normal morphology. The seep vestimentiferans (Seepiophila jonesi and Lamellibrachia cf. luymesi) exhibited numerous electron-dense organelles, similar in morphology to cytolysosomes and previously described as sulfide oxidizing bodies, while in the 3 vent vestimentiferans (Riftia pachyptila, Tevnia jerichonana, and Oasisia alvinae) and the seep orbiniid Methanoaricia dendrobranchiata, fewer of these organelles were observed. Energy dispersive x-ray microanalysis of these electron-dense organelles indicated the presence of sulfur, iron, zinc, and copper, as well as lesser amounts of other elements. We propose that these epidermal cytolysosomes are morphologically similar to previously described sulfide oxidizing bodies that have been hypothesized to play a role in maintaining aerobically poised animal metabolism in sulfide-enriched habitats.
40206203|The timing and spatial distribution of cells containing FMRFamide-related molecules in the embryogenesis of the polychaete Ophryotrocha labronica were studied immunocytochemically. FMRFamide-like molecules emerge early during embryonic development. They are found at the one-cell stage, are asymmetrically distributed in the first phases of cleavage, associated with gastrular movements, and label the central nervous system morphogenesis. Moreover, during embryogenesis, the pattern of gut cells with the FMRFamide-like phenotype that is present in adults is already established. The early occurrence of FMRFamide-like molecules in O. labronica suggests that these molecules are involved as pre-nervous growth signals in the regulation of basic neuronal cell behaviors.
4621919|The development of the hermaphroditic gonad, the infusorigen, was studied in fixed specimens of 16 species belonging to four genera (Conocyema, Dicyema, Dicyemennea, and Pseudicyema) of dicyemid mesozoans. In addition, the literature on the cell lineages of infusorigens of eight other species was reviewed. After an agamete (axoblast) undergoes an unequal first division, excluding a small cell (the paranucleus), the resulting large cell divides to form the infusorigen. Five infursorigen cell lineage patterns can be identified: type I, both the first oogonium and the first spermatogonium are produced at the third division; type II, the first spermatogonium is produced at the second division and the first oogonium is produced at the third division; type III, the first spermatogonium is produced at the second division and the first oogonium is produced at the fourth division; type IV, the first oogonium is produced at the second division and the first spermatogonium is produced at the third division; and type V, the first oogonium is produced at the second division and the first spermatogonium is produced at the fourth division. Later development is similar in members of all genera. Mature infusorigens are similarly organized in all species examined. Sizes of agametes and infusorigen axial cells, the number of infusorigens, and the type of reproductive strategy were not correlated with infusorigen developmental patterns or cell lineage patterns.
25623049|Two small cemented, cryptic, species of Dianadema (Bivalvia: Anomalodesmata: Clavagellidae) have been recorded from shallow waters of the Indian Ocean. These are Dianadema minima and Dianadema mascarensis. A study of their shells and adventitious crypt morphologies, however, suggests that the two species are conspecific, the former name taking precedence. This re-description of D. minima suggests that on settlement, the larva develops a juvenile shell that continues to grow until a length of  9.0 mm is reached, when it secretes around itself a primary calcareous crypt and cements itself ventrally into a concavity in coral rubble. Subsequently, a crown of tubules is secreted from the dorsal surface of the exposed mantle and an adventitious siphonal tube is formed, which is characteristically oriented at  45 from the horizontal. In the absence of preserved internal tissues and pre-adult life history stages, there is no possibility of fully comprehending exactly how such a remarkable adventitious structure is produced. Dianadema minima does, however, provide us with another example of the remarkable adaptive radiation of the Clavagelloidea and, in particular, the pattern of convergent evolution expressed not just between D. minima (Clavagellidae) and Humphreyia strangei (Penicillidae), but also between the two families that have independently evolved "watering pot" shells and tubes.
10.2307/3226980|The operculum of Macropora levinseni is a thick shelf of calcium carbonate in contact with external cuticle only at the distal and lateral margins; it apparently was derived from cryptocyst. The lophophore is protruded by parietal muscles, which originate on lateral and frontal walls, unite into tendons, pass through pores in the frontally convex frontal wall (also derived from cryptocyst), and insert on the cuticular epitheca. About 60 of these opesiular pores are scattered evenly over the frontal wall. Affinities of M. levinseni are puzzling. The only other cheilostomes known to possess cryptocystal opercula belong to the genus Cellaria, with a derived budding pattern unlike that of Macropora, whose budding pattern is closely related to those of early fossil (Mesozoic) cheilostomes. Furthermore, the hydrostatic mechanisms differ between the two groups and intermediate morphologies seem unlikely. However, multiplication of opesiules occurs in various species of the family Microporidae, and there is evidence of cryptocystal opercula in that family. Available evidence cannot exclude the possibility that Cellaria species and M. levinseni evolved independently, but it seems likely that they share an ancestor among the Microporidae. Cryptocystal opercula in these apparently distantly related taxa suggest that cryptocystal opercula may occur elsewhere among cheilostomes. Discovery of these surprising morphologies suggests unsuspected diversity among seemingly conservative structures such as frontal walls, opercula, and hydrostatic mechanisms. It is likely that surprises remain; monothetic taxonomies relying on morphological homogeneity are correspondingly suspect. The resemblance of opesiular pores to occasional pseudopores on the operculum may clarify the derivation of pseudopores among cheilostomes.
3701492|The subfamily Ambleminae is the most diverse subfamily of fresh-water mussels (order Unionoida), a globally diverse and ecologically prominent group of bivalves. About 250 amblemine species occur in North America; however, this diversity is highly imperiled, with the majority of species at risk. Assessing and protecting this diversity has been hampered by the uncertain systematics of this group. This study sought to provide an improved phylogenetic framework for the Ambleminae. Currently, 37 North American genera are recognized in Ambleminae. Previous phylogenetic studies of amblemines highlighted the need for more extensive sampling due to the uncertainties arising from polyphyly of many currently recognized taxa. The present study incorporated all amblemine genera occurring in North America north of the Rio Grande, with multiple species of most genera, including the type species for all but seven genera. A total of 192 new DNA sequences were obtained for three mitochondrial gene regions: COI, 16S, and ND1. In combination with published data, this produced a data matrix incorporating 357 gene sequences for 143 operational taxonomic units, representing 107 currently recognized species. Inclusion of published data provides additional taxa and a summary of present molecular evidence on amblemine phylogeny, if at the cost of increasing the amount of missing data. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses suggest that most amblemine genera, as currently defined, are polyphyletic. At higher taxonomic levels, the tribes Quadrulini, Lampsilini, and Pleurobemini were supported; the extent of Amblemini and the relationships of some genera previously assigned to that tribe remain unclear. The eastern North American amblemines appear monophyletic. Gonidea and some Eurasian taxa place as probable sister taxa for the eastern North American Ambleminae. The results also highlight problematic taxa of particular interest for further work.
3227103|The enchytraeid Grania americana has a dorsal statocyst within the peristomium. It is connected to the anterior end of the cerebral ganglion. Transmission electron and light microscopy were used to study this region of the head. The statocyst is divided into four membrane-bound chambers; each contains an electron dense statolith surrounded by numerous sensory cilia, so that it is a multi-chambered or compound statocyst. Cilia within the statocyst possess a 9x2 + 0 microtubule arrangement, with one of the doublets in a central position. All cilia that were observed in the statocyst and in the cerebral ganglion had this arrangement of microtubules. This is the first description of a statocyst in the Clitellata. The statocyst of G. americana is compared to those described in polychaetes and may provide useful information for phylogenetic and taxonomic studies of the genus, of clitellates, and of annelids.
3227250|After 8-10 segments of posterior ventral nerve cord were ablated in Lumbriculus variegatus, touch-evoked locomotor responses were evident both in segments anterior and posterior to the ablation site. However, responses in these two regions were independent and uncoupled. During recovery, four outcomes were observed at the ablation site: (Group 1) recovery of normal functions with no growth of new segments; (Group 2) formation of a laterally protruding, multi-segmented, ectopic head; (Group 3) formation of a laterally protruding, amorphous, and multi-segmented outgrowth; and (Group 4) segmental autotomy. In Groups 1 and 2, touch-evoked swimming and body reversal were studied. In addition, sensory fields and conduction properties of giant nerve fibers were examined near the ablation site. In some Group 1 worms, clear-cut behavioral and electrical signs of recovery and reconnection were seen by 3 d after ablation. By 8 d, all worms had recovered and exhibited response patterns comparable to those of normal worms. In Group 2 worms, with an ectopic head, segments posterior to the ablation (together with those in the ectopic head), exhibited touch-evoked swimming and body reversal responses resembling those of a complete worm. Segments anterior to the ectopic head were independently capable of locomotor responses. Medial and lateral giant fiber sensory fields in worms with ectopic heads reflected a pattern expected for two worms. Thus, through apparent morphallactic reorganization, a medial giant fiber sensory field emerged which included the ectopic head and 10-15 adjacent posterior segments. In contrast, electrical recordings showed longitudinal through-conduction of giant fiber spikes, across the ablation site. Histological examination revealed that the giant nerve fibers in the ectopic head were complexly interconnected with those in the main body axis.
25623065|Gonad and pyloric caecum indices are widely used indicators of reproductive effort and nutritional condition in asteroids. Current methods of quantification generally require sacrificing multiple animals and the resulting reduction in local sea star density could have an unintended impact on benthic communities. Using the intertidal sea star Pisaster ochraceus, we developed and tested a method for estimating organ indices through the non-lethal sampling of single arms. Indices estimated via dissections of single arms accurately predicted the values obtained by sacrificing whole animals. In laboratory and field trials, we compared two methods of sampling single arms: (1) arm removal, and (2) organ extraction through an incision (without arm removal). Two years after these treatments, organs had regenerated in the affected arms of most sea stars, but were small relative to those in unmanipulated arms. The extent of organ recovery did not differ between the two treatments, but sea stars in the arm removal group were relocated in the field more frequently than those in the arm incision group. Our results suggest that sampling via the removal of single arms can be an effective, non-lethal method for estimating gonad and pyloric caecum indices in asteroids.
3227172|Laser scanning confocal microscopy is used to reveal the changes that occur in the RFamide-positive nerve net as a free-swimming, solid hydrozoan planula larva is transformed into a sessile, hollow, young polyp. Seven stages of development in Pennaria tiarella are described: planula competent to metamorphose, attaching planula, disc, pawn, crown, developing polyp, and developed primary polyp. The RFamide-positive nervous system undergoes dramatic reorganization during metamorphosis: (1) larval neurons degenerate; (2) new neurons differentiate and reform a nerve net: and (3) the overall distribution pattern of the nervous system changes. This study confirms earlier observations on RFamide-positive neurons of Hydractinia which also show the loss of these cells after the onset of metamorphosis.
10.2307/3226962|When offered an egg of the land snail Anguispira alternata, the carnivorous land snail Haplotrema concavum manipulates it, rotating the egg with its foot and rubbing its mouth on the surface of the egg shell. After ~24 minutes of such manipulation, the egg is transported by the carnivore to a covered location where it is consumed. Transport is accomplished by a repetition of the following steps: disengagement and movement away from the egg, turning back toward the egg, extension of the body from the shell toward the egg, contact with the egg, and retrieval of the egg by pulling back toward the shell. Consumption of young hatchlings of other snail species involves a similar manipulation and transport of the prey.
3701454|This paper reports the second occurrence of a sand-grain encrusting interstitial epifauna dominated by bryozoans and polychaetes at a site thousands of kilometers from the first described occurrence of such a fauna 20 years ago. Such faunas seem to have gone almost unrecorded in the marine ecological literature, but they are potentially geographically widespread and ecologically significant, deserving recognition and further study by benthic ecologists. Although rooted-erect and free-living lunulitiform bryozoans can be abundant in soft-bottom habitats, the presence of encrusting forms was, until recently, considered to be limited to patches of hard substrata. In 1985 and 1988, a new and seemingly unique habitat for encrusting bryozoans and other organisms on single grains of shell or sand was reported from the coastal waters of Florida, USA. Here we report a second discovery of an interstitial encrusting fauna from the continental shelf off the state of Sao Paulo, Brazil. In addition to the cupuladriid Discoporella umbellata, several species of bryozoans (9 cheilostomes, 3 ctenostomes, and 1 cyclostome) were found encrusting on or boring into sand grains from the 4 stations examined. Four species were found exclusively on sand to gravel size grains. The most abundant colonies, with
3227146|The oligochaete, Tubifex tubifex (Oligochaeta, Tubificidae), is capable of the autotomization and regeneration of missing body parts. The posterior end of the worm is subject to autotomy (e.g., after predation or after exposure to toxic substances) and can be regenerated thereafter. Despite the ecological importance of T. tubifex, processes of autotomy and regeneration have been little studied. This work describes daily morphological and histological observations of caudal regeneration of this worm. We also compared regeneration processes when autotomy was induced by artificial transsection of the worms (control worms) and by exposure to copper ion, a frequently encountered environmental contaminant. The worms regenerated a functional posterior end (defecation possible) in 7 d as well as a prepygidial zone from which new segments could be regenerated. In T. tubifex, regeneration involved the presence of activated mesoblastocytes in the worm, increased number of neoblasts, and the increased migration of these cells. However, Cu
40206229|Tunic cells are free cells distributed in the tunic, the integumentary matrix of tunicates. In ascidians, various types of tunic cells have been described both in solitary and in colonial species. Many of them are functionally specialized and are related to the protection of the animal, such as phagocytosis to prevent infection, acid storage to avoid predation, and pigmentation to protect against solar radiation. While some tunic cells are known to play a role in colonial allorecognition, bioluminescence, and algal symbiosis, the functional roles of many cell types still remain to be determined. The composition of tunic-cell types varies among ascidian species, most likely reflecting the functional requirements of the tunic in each species. Although some cell types, e.g., tunic net cells and tunic bladder cells, are restricted to particular taxa of ascidians, tunic phagocytes are found in all known ascidians. Therefore, tunic phagocytes are hypothesized to be basal and shared with ancestral tunicates. In some ascidians, phagocytic cells are involved in other functions, such as pigmentation, intracellular photosymbiosis, and bioluminescence. These specialized phagocytic cells are hypothesized to be derived from tunic phagocytes, suggesting that tunic cells have a high potential to diversify and evolve a wide variety of cellular functions.
3701512|Xyloplax janetae n. sp. is described from the northeast Pacific Ocean. This is the third species recognized for the monogeneric Concentricycloidea. Skeletal structures are elaborated by scanning electron microscopy and compared with those of Xyloplax medusiformis from New Zealand and Xyloplax turnerae from the Bahamas. Critical-point-dried specimens show fibrous connective tissue emerging from openings on the abactinal surface, on the abactinal spine bases, and at broken cross sections of the adambulacral spines. Knob-like structures emerging through the stereom openings of the abactinal spine base are also observed. Tube feet have round, swollen knobs and show few striations relative to other asteroids. Cosmopolitan bathyal-abyssal echinoderm species tend to exhibit few morphological differences over broad geographic ranges; this generalization is true of Xyloplax. The Concentricycloidea is proposed as an infraclass within the Asteroidea, as the sister branch to the Neoasteroidea (the crown-group asteroids) within the subclass Ambuloasteroidea. The hypothesis presented is compatible with recent phylogenetic data supporting affinities between Xyloplax and the Asteroidea. Characters plesiomorphic in basal neoasteroids are consistent with a sister-group relationship to concentricycloids. Actinal plate presence, an important synapomorphy for the Neoasteroidea, is absent from concentricycloids. The substantial morphological departure of Xyloplax is considered to be associated with the post-Paleozoic diversification of crown-group asteroids rather than from modification of an established and conservative morphology.
3227100| The reproduction and development of symbiotic polynoid polychaetes in the genus Arctonoe were examined with light and electron microscopy. Around San Juan Island, Washington, the 3 described Arctonoe spp. have very similar reproductive periods and ontogenies. Free-spawned eggs 80 m in diameter fuse with sperm and develop into planktonic, feeding larvae that bear a prototroch, but no metatroch or food groove cilia. Larvae begin feeding only after the development of episphere ciliary bands and an oral brush, consistent with the hypothesis that these structures are involved in particle capture and handling. Metamorphosis occurs in the laboratory in the absence of hosts after 6-12 weeks of feeding and growth. Juveniles begin feeding using the pharyngeal jaws several days after metamorphosis is complete. In the laboratory, worms reach sexual maturity 4-6 months after metamorphosis. The long planktonic larval period of Arctonoe spp. probably leads to high dispersal, suggesting that geographic differentiation in host preferences is unlikely except over large spatial scales. Naive juveniles of Arctonoe spp. can now be obtained from laboratory cultures to test the hypothesis that genetically based host preferences are important in determining host-use patterns in these symbionts. 
10.2307/3226861|A previous study showed negative effects of inbreeding on reproductive success in the simultaneously hermaphroditic land snail Arianta arbustorum. Different mechanisms of inbreeding avoidance such as kin recognition, sex-biased dispersal patterns, and variation in mating systems have evolved in a variety of organisms. We performed mate-choice tests to examine whether individuals of A. arbustorum discriminate between full-sibs and non-sibs from the same population, and whether incestuous matings reduce the snails' subsequent reproductive success. Snails mated randomly with respect to degree of relatedness, indicating a lack of inbreeding avoidance by selective mating. Snails which mated with full-sibs did not differ in number of eggs, hatching success of eggs, and number of offspring produced from those mated with unrelated conspecifics. Our results indicate that there is no kin recognition mechanism in A. arbustorum. We suggest that multiple mating with different partners, as observed in the field, may reduce inbreeding effects in this species.
3227097|Rotifera and Acanthocephala are generally regarded as separate phyla sharing a basal position among triploblast protostomes. This paper presents the first molecular phylogenetic examination of the relationship of Acanthocephala to all three rotifer classes, Seisonidea, Monogononta, and Bdelloidea. Inclusion of Acanthocephala within Rotifera, probably as a sistertaxon to a clade composed of Bdelloidea and Monogononta (the Eurotatoria), is strongly supported by both parsimony and distance methods, using a region of the nuclear coding gene hsp82. Previous molecular evidence for the inclusion of Acanthocephala in the Rotifera suggested that Acanthocephala is a sister-taxon of Bdelloidea, forming the clade Lemniscea. No support is found for this clade, and evidence is presented that the monogonont rotifer used in those analyses, Brachionus plicatilis, may be evolving in an anomalous manner.
40206205|Parasites can influence the population dynamics of their hosts by affecting life-history strategies and behavior. The hematophageous mite Riccardoella limacum lives in the lung cavity of terrestrial gastropods. We used correlational and experimental approaches to investigate the influence of parasite infection on the behavior and life-history traits of the simultaneously hermaphroditic land snail Arianta arbustorum, a common host of R. limacum. Naturally infected individuals of A. arbustorum, collected in the wild, showed a decreased activity compared with uninfected snails. The reproductive output, expressed as the number of eggs deposited in a reproductive season, was reduced in mite-infected hosts. However, the hatching success of the eggs laid by parasitized snails was slightly higher than that of uninfected individuals. We also examined winter survival in 361 adults of A. arbustorum collected from four natural populations. The prevalence of mite infection ranged from 44.8% to 70.1% in three populations (snails in the fourth population were not infected). Winter survival was reduced in infected snails in two out of three populations. Furthermore, experimentally infected snails from an uninfected population showed a reduced winter survival compared with control snails. Our results indicate that parasite pressure imposed by members of R. limacum may influence life history in A. arbustorum.
10.2307/3226949|Abathymermis fiseri n. sp. and Abathymermis shocki n. sp., two closely related species of mermithid nematodes, are described from adult chironomids emerging from Lake Itasca, Minnesota in early June of 1992 and 1993. These are the first two species of Abathymermis reported outside the Palearctic Realm. The species are distinguished from other sufficiently described members of the genus by their larger size, long protractor and abbreviated bursal musculature, longer spicules, and the position of the posterior extention of the trophosome in the male. A. fiseri n. sp. and A. shocki n. sp. are separated by several quantitative characteristics including spicule lengths, body widths at most levels, and number of genital papillae. In addition the pointed tail and the presence of cephalic superficial cuticular annuli in A. shocki n. sp. differ from the rounded tail and absence of annuli in A. fiseri. n. sp. Eggs of A. fiseri n. sp. require fertilization to initiate embryogenesis, while eggs of A. shocki n. sp. can develop parthenogenetically, although males are known-the first demonstration of parthenogenesis resulting in viable offspring in an aquatic mermithid. The host chironomid species remain unknown. Eleven species of mermithids from eight genera have now been reported from Lake Itasca chironomids.
3227274|To determine patterns of resource allocation among ascidians, we studied 16 colonial and solitary species. We measured investment in reproductive vs. structural material (tunic) both in terms of weight and caloric content, as well as fecundity and degree of larval complexity in the colonial species. Measurements in weight and caloric content were highly correlated in the species studied. A wide range of investment in reproduction was found. Tunic production was related to the growth form of the species, stolonic and solitary species investing less in tunic than massive species. but no significant relationship was found between investment in tunic production vs. reproduction. In colonial species we found that in species with small zooid size, the reproductive investment per zooid was significantly higher. There was a significant negative relationship between investment in reproduction and fecundity. We also found a significant relationship between reproductive investment and larval complexity. The overall trend was that species with low fecundity had large complex larvae and invested the most energy in reproduction.
10.2307/3226890|The porcellanid crab Porcellana sayana is usually found associated with gastropod snails or hermit crabs that occupy gastropod shells. In this study, we examined chemical mediation and host selection by P. sayana collected from hermit crabs. Chemical detection tests were done in a four-chamber choice apparatus. Odors tested were from the co-occurring symbiotic sea anemone Calliactis tricolor, the non-symbiotic anemone Aiptasia pallida, the hermit crab Dardanus venosus, and the gastropod snail Polinices duplicatus. In addition to odors from live animals, frozen and thawed snail muscle was tested. P. sayana was attracted chemically only to C. tricolor. In host selection tests involving sea anemones and gastropod shells, P. sayana chose C. tricolor over shells, but chose shells over A. pallida. When given no other choice, P. sayana still avoided the non-symbiotic anemone while readily going to C. tricolor in separate trials. Apparently, a symbiosis between P. sayana and C. tricolor has ensued from the porcellanid/hermit crab association.
3227238|Ecdysis in scorpions has some common features in all species in which it has been examined. Immature scorpions about to molt become less active, and the cuticle changes in appearance. When humidity and other conditions are suitable, the animal begins ecdysis with cheliceral and pedipalpal movements and internal processes that tear the pleural membrane just ventral to the anterior and lateral edges of the carapace. The carapace is pushed upward from within, and the animal starts to emerge through the opening made by the elevated carapace. This is usually done in the prone position. As the anterior body emerges, the pedipalps and walking legs are stretched posteriorly with their distal ends temporarily confined within the old exoskeleton. The buthid scorpions Androctonus australis and Parabuthus transvaalicus become supine before they begin to emerge. Ecdysis is completed lying supine, and the animal rights itself shortly thereafter. A turnover from upright to supine is not seen at any other time in scorpions. After prone or supine extraction, the exuvium includes the cuticle of booklungs, bristles, and sensilla and is relatively intact except for the wedge-shaped opening at the anterior end.
10.2307/3226897|Lamellibranch gills are used for various vital functions ranging from food capture to ion regulation. The foundation for many of these functions is the transport of water through the gill. Few studies have examined the role of intrinsic gill muscles and their ability to control water flow by altering the dimensions of the water passageways of the gill. In this report we examine the organization of intrinsic gill muscles and associated connective tissue in zebra mussels, Dreissena polymorpha. Two sets of muscles lie within the hemocoel of the gill and are bathed with hemolymph. In those muscles associated with the connective tissue sheets (which underlie external and internal gill epithelia), the orientation of the muscle fibers is consistent with a role of regulating the external and internal ostial area. Those muscles encased in connective tissue bands and oriented perpendicular to the bases of gill filaments reduce interfilament distance in the gill; these muscles are antagonized by dense connective tissue cross-struts that push the gill filaments apart when the muscles relax. The two sets of muscles are oriented to serve complementary functions in reducing ostial openings, thus affecting water flow through the gill. The muscles of the gill respond to application of exogenous acetylcholine, FMRFamide, and serotonin. The gill contracts in response to acetylcholine and FMRFamide but relaxes with serotonin application. Microscopic observation of live gill tissues reveals complex and dynamic changes in gill dimensions consistent with a role in regulating water flow.
10.2307/3226903|Two new species of solitary ascidians from the deep sea off Oman, Arabian Sea, are described. Agnezia monnioti n. sp. is from the abyssal plain at 3162 m depth. Whereas many deep-sea ascidians have reduced branchial ciliation and exploit the velocity gradient in the benthic boundary layer to induce internal flow, this species has strong ciliation and a siphonal arrangement that appears inappropriate for using ambient water currents for filtration. Styela gagetyleri n. sp. is found at a depth of 368 m, which is in the middle of a persistent oxygen minimum zone. The branchial sac of this species has a reduced number of folds and therefore fewer cilia for food collection and less surface area for oxygen exchange than shallow-water congeners. We hypothesize that reduced filtration capacity is made possible by an unusually high flux of organic material to the sea floor in this region. The observed reduction in branchial surface area in a persistent hypoxic zone suggests that branchial complexity in ascidians is more important for feeding efficiency than gas exchange. Affinities of these species with other members of their respective genera are discussed and an appendix with the synonyms and localities of species in the genus Agnezia is included.
10.2307/3226989|We investigated factors that influence larval color in black flies of the Simulium vittatum complex. In the laboratory, larvae were exposed to different light sources (ultraviolet and fluorescent "cool white"), background colors (black and white), and diets (periphyton, Spirulina, and fish food). Larvae were significantly darker when exposed to ultraviolet radiation, when reared in black containers, and when fed periphyton. Larval color was independent of sex. In the field, larvae on rocks were significantly darker than those on in-stream vegetation. Larval color also varied among seasons. Pigment analyses suggested that field-collected larvae contain a carotenoid. To investigate the adaptive significance of larval color, visual predators (Gambusia holbrooki) were introduced to a recirculating flume that contained dark larvae on black and white backgrounds. The predatory fish consumed significantly more dark larvae on white squares than expected by chance. Larvae, however, did not select a background that matched their body color. Our investigations show that a significant component of color is under environmental control.
10.2307/3226869|Recent papers by R.M. Rieger and colleagues explore the possibility that bilateral metazoans have evolved from colonial ancestors. More conventional theories derive them from motile, ciliated ancestors, usually of small size, resembling either flatworms or placozoans. This paper examines the related issue of whether a colonial origin may explain some features of deuterostome metazoans, specifically: (1) whether the deuterostome body might be a composite entity, with the mouth and anus being derived from the mouths of separate zooids-the anus from the mouth of the oozooid or larva; the definitive mouth from the mouth of the first blastozooid of the adult colony-and (2) their developmental flexibility in comparison to protostomes, using echinoderms and tunicates as examples of how extremely well developed this capability is in deuterostomes. The idea of a composite body, referred to here as the "diplozoon hypothesis," has potentially important implications for how homologies between protostomes and deuterostomes are interpreted.
3227156|With few exceptions, spermatozoa-encapsulating packages in molluscs are known mostly from cephalopods and pulmonate gastropods. Among non-stylommatophoran gastropods, the marine Cerithioidea are second only to the Neritimorpha in the number of species that posess a spermatophore, but they have only rarely been found in freshwater taxa of this superfamily. We describe and compare here the sperm packages of 11 paludomid cerithioideans as part of an ongoing study on the evolution and systematics of the thalassoid (i.e., "marine-like") endemic species flock from Lake Tanganyika. Stereomicroscopic and SEM examination revealed unexpected complexity in shape and structure of spermatophores within paludomids. In addition, we present a survey of other Cerithioidea, which revealed that spermatophores are in general structurally simple and confirmed their presence in 12 marine species (five families) and 15 limnic species (four families), including those of 10 thalassoid species for which spermatophores are described herein. Based on histological sections of the male genital tract, we hypothesize that spermatophores are formed anteriorly, wholly or in part, by the so-called spermatophore-forming organ, and which is considered a synapomorphy of the Paludomidae. In addition, we briefly discuss functional aspects inferred from morphological study of the spermatophore-forming organ, with possible implications for spermatozoan transfer and fertilization. Finally, we place the features of the spermatophores and the spermatophore-forming organ in a phylogenetic framework of cerithioidean and paludomid systematics, which suggests that the spermatophore-forming organ is a synapomorphy of Paludomidae, that a bifurcate spermatophore structure is plesiomorphic, and that the evolution of structurally complex, spiny spermatophores has occurred independently in disparate lineages within the thalassoid species flock.
23016710|The polychaete Dipolydora commensalis is an obligate symbiont of hermit crabs and produces a burrow along the columella of the gastropod shells they inhabit. Adults of D. commensalis have short palps that they use to feed on particles dropped or brought in by the respiratory currents of hosts. To determine whether hermit crabs influence palp length, specimens of D. commensalis were isolated in glass capillary tubes and the growth of palps was measured over a 3-week period. Palp length was also measured in worms isolated in gastropod shells with or without hermit crabs for 2 weeks. In addition, to determine whether adults of D. commensalis have regeneration capabilities like those of free-living relatives, worms were cut at the fifth or 15th setiger and then monitored for 35 d. Worms extracted from shells and placed into capillary tubes had initial palp lengths of 1.00.4 mm (n = 17); after isolation, palps were 40% longer (1.40.4 mm, n = 17). Worms in gastropod shells with hermit crabs had an average palp length of 0.90.4 mm (n = 31), whereas worms in shells without hermit crabs had palps that were 33% longer (1.20.5 mm, n = 40). Adults of D. commensalis are capable of regeneration; 35 d after ablation at setigers 5 or 15, the average number of anterior setigers regenerated was 5 (n = 15) and 91.3 (n = 13), respectively. The average number of posterior setigers regenerated from the 15 setiger anterior fragments was 116 (n = 10). The findings suggest that the palps (and sometimes anterior ends) of the worms are exposed during feeding and are cut during movement of the hermit crab. In the laboratory worms can live for >4 years, considerably longer than the functional life span of most gastropod shells inhabited by hermit crabs.
41408397|Symbiotic crustaceans are expected to live solitarily with their hosts when members of their host species are small (relative to symbiont body size) and structurally simple. We tested the hypothesis of a solitary lifestyle in Ascidonia flavomaculata, symbiotic shrimp that inhabits the branchial chamber of the relatively small and structurally simple tunicate Ascidia mntula in the subtidal zone of the Islas Baleares, Spain. We found that members of A. flavomaculata dwell as solitary individuals in the branchial chamber of ascidians at a higher frequency than expected by chance alone. Given this host use pattern of A. flavomaculata, we hypothesized that males actively move among host individuals in search of receptive females. We provide several lines of evidence consistent with that hypothesis. First, a positive correlation between shrimp and host body size was detected for females, but not for males, during one of the sampling seasons. If males as well as females spend long periods of time within their host individuals, a positive correlation between shrimp and host body size should have been found for both males and females. Second, the body sizes of individuals in the few male-female pairs observed during this study were poorly correlated. If males of A. flavomaculata shared their host individuals with females for long periods of time, a positive correlation between the sizes of males and females in a pair should have been found. Lastly, the body sizes of paired males were larger than those of solitary males during summer, when reproduction was more intense. This difference in body size between paired and solitary males additionally suggests competition among putatively roaming males for receptive females. Manipulative experiments and behavioral observations are necessary to reveal the details of the mating system of A. flavomaculata and other symbiotic crustaceans with a solitary lifestyle.
41408398|Factors controlling sperm production in members of the Orthoptera have not been fully elucidated. In this study, the influence of intermating interval and ad libidum mating on sperm number was investigated in black field crickets (Teleogryllus commodus). Remating at a variety of time intervals was not characterized by a significant change in sperm number compared with the first mating. Ad libitum mating (i.e., continuous availability of unmated females) had two main effects on spermatophore production and sperm number: first, there was a trend toward increased time between copulations with each successive remating, and second, the number of spermatozoa encapsulated in the transferred spermatophore declined after most rematings, with 61.8% of the initial sperm number being produced for the second spermatophore and 51.3% of the initial sperm number being produced for the third. The decrease in mean sperm number was accompanied by increased variance in sperm number in later rematings. This study suggests that males are willing to suffer a decrease in sperm number if a mating opportunity occurs before the completion of sperm production.
3227169|Classical studies of horseshoe crab development have provided relatively little information about the earliest stages, and the contribution of yolk cells and yolk nuclei-a deficiency due in large part to the difficulty of preparing the eggs and embryos for sectioning. Using newly developed histological resins, we show that the yolk nuclei undergo a series of changes during embryogenesis, before cellularizing and forming the midgut epithelium during the first larval stage. The digestive diverticulum forms in a 2-step process. A mesodermally derived lamina divides the yolk mass into distinct lobes, defining the boundaries of the digestive caeca. The yolk nuclei then cellularize to form the midgut epithelium.
10.2307/3227016| Comprehensive ultrastructural investigation of spermiogenesis and the mature sperm in Thylacorhynchus ambronensis revealed a number of features valuable for cladistic analysis. Two basal bodies lie on either side of an intercentriolar body in the zone of differentiation of the spermatid, but only one develops into a normal flagellum while the other remains as a small bud, eventually disappearing. Structures within and surrounding the two basal bodies differ, and, contrary to observations in another monoaxonemal schizorhynch (Baltoplana magna), the two basal bodies become separated and only that of the normal flagellum is carried distally from the cytophore which unites an isogenic group of spermatids. A spiralling ridge develops on a projection of the spermatid that is distal to the flagellar basal body; the normal flagellum becomes incorporated into the shaft of the sperm, paralleling its long axis, in the distal to proximal orientation; and the nucleus and a string of mitochondria become tightly coiled around the axoneme. Cortical microtubules surrounding the nucleus, mitochondria, and axoneme are also helically wound around the shaft, except at the proximal end. Mature sperms are very long and filiform, with a corkscrew structure ~7 m long at the distal end. The nucleus extends throughout most of the length of the sperm, while mitochondria and the central axoneme terminate some distance from the proximal end. There are no dense bodies in any region of the sperm. Although terminal corkscrew structures and, separately, monoaxonemal sperms have been found in other platyhelminth taxa, evidence suggests that neither of these features is homologous between T. ambronensis and those taxa. 
40206224|Diminished populations of eastern oysters Crassostrea virginica in Chesapeake Bay have stimulated proposals to introduce Crassostrea ariakensis from Asia to restore oyster stocks. As part of a program evaluating possible ramifications of such an introduction, we studied how invertebrate predators responded to this non-native oyster. We compared predation activity under laboratory conditions by oyster drills (Urosalpinx cinerea; Eupleura caudat) that bore through an oyster's shell and by the seastar Asterias forbesi that pulls shell valves apart. These three predators preyed significantly (p < 0.05) more on the familiar C. virginica than on the novel C. ariakensis. We previously reported that five crab species preyed significantly more on C. ariakensis than on C. virginica, with predation by polyclad flatworms similar between oyster species. Thus, the drills and the seastar differed from the crabs and the flatworms in their response to novel prey. When Urosalpinx cinerea was placed in a Y-maze after being held for 40 d with oysters of one species or the other, the drills moved toward C. virginica effluent more than toward C. ariakensis effluent. This response did not depend on the species of oyster the drills had been held with, suggesting that the drills were responding to more familiar infochemicals from eastern oysters than from the non-native oysters.
3701500|New data on shell reactions elicited by larval digeneans in bivalves from Recent sub-Antarctic populations and late Holocene Patagonian deposits are reported. Shell alterations, which are traces of digenean trematode infections, were found affecting intertidal bivalve populations from Malvinas (Falkland) Islands, Burdwood Bank, Beagle Channel, and from Holocene deposits at Tierra del Fuego (Argentina). The bivalve species involved belonged to the families Nuculanidae, Cyamiidae, and Neoleptonidae. Such reactions consisted of quite unusual dome or igloo-shaped calcifications on the inner shell surface; the similarities and uniqueness of this reaction in different bivalve species reported here suggest that the invasive agent is the same. Based on previous findings of morphologically identical shell alterations in Gaimardia trapesina (Bivalvia, Gaimardiidae) from Magellanic and sub-Antarctic waters, it is suggested that the parasites responsible for the traces reported here belong to a digenean platyhelminth species of the Gymnophallidae genus Bartolius. The host bivalves reported here belong to three different superfamilies, and share a similar crystalline shell microstructure: aragonite with homogeneous structure. After a review of the available information dealing with bivalve shell-mantle reactions against digeneans, it is hypothesized that parasites are responsible for the modeling of the host response they elicit. However, although the specific characteristics of the reaction depend on the parasite, they would probably be constrained by some characteristics of the host shell structure.
3227190|A mermithid, a parasite of a spider (Araneae: Thomisidae) in Baltic amber (40 mya), is described as Heydenius araneus n.sp. (Nematoda: Mermithidae) and represents the first fossil record of a nematode parasite of an arachnid. After a critical examination of reports of naturally occurring helminths of extant spiders, I conclude that although mermithid parasitism is well established in this host group, previous reports of hairworm parasites of spiders are "nomina dubia," putative records, or refer to mermithid nematodes.
40206225|Octopodids are a globally distributed group of marine molluscs. Despite this, our knowledge of their reproductive biology rests heavily on inference, as all phases of copulation, beginning with sperm transfer, occur within the mantle cavity. Male octopuses insert a spermatophore into the female's oviduct, which is predicted to release a sperm-filled sac that either bursts to release sperm for storage or to itself be stored in a gland in the middle of the oviduct. To test whether female octopuses use sperm from multiple males to fertilize their eggs, as may be predicted from anatomy and anecdotal accounts, we apply microsatellite analysis to a partial clutch of Graneledone boreopacifica collected at 1600-m depth to test for multiple paternity. At least two genetically distinct sires contributed sperm to the hatchlings analyzed, demonstrating for the first time multiple paternity in octopodids.
40206228|The extraordinary parasitic metanauplius larva of Caribeopsyllus amphiodiae is sexually dimorphic, with conspicuous gonads, and elaborate lens-bearing eyes. The parasites usually occur singly within their host, and grow for 5 months within the stomach of burrowing ophiuroids (Amphiodia urtic). They transform into free-living, semelparous, non-feeding adults that live only 2 weeks. The species' life-history pattern, with a larval period ~ 10  longer than the adult life span, is contrariwise to that of other copepods but not for animals with non-feeding adults of both sexes. It appears that the life cycle of C. amphiodiae is pedomorphic, and probably evolved through a delay of metamorphosis regulated by developmental hormones. We attribute the dominance of the larval phase to the greater potential for survival and growth of the enterozoic parasitic stages than of the free-living, post-metamorphic stages. We note that among marine invertebrates, non-feeding adults of both sexes occur exclusively in taxa with a complex life cycle, and that non-feeding adults of both sexes are never found in taxa that have small larvae and delayed maturation. They occur only when there is a large larva that can provide the adult stage with sufficient nutrient reserves for reproduction.
3227185|The corallimorpharian Rhodactis rhodostoma appears to be an opportunistic species capable of rapidly monopolizing patches of unoccupied shallow substrate on tropical reefs. On a fringing coral reef at Eilat, Israel, northern Red Sea, we examined patterns of abundance and clonal replication in R. rhodostoma in order to understand the modes and rates of spread of polyps across the reef flat. Polyps were abundant on the inner reef flat (maximum 1510 polyps m
10.2307/3226956| The fluorescent dye acridine orange (C.I. 46005) was found to be useful for differentiating cuticular layers and therefore can aid in determining the molt stage of decapod crustaceans. For Procambarus clarkii and Callinectes sapidus, best results were achieved by staining 10-m sections of alcoholic formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue with a 0.1% aqueous solution at pH 4.0. The sections were viewed with an epifluorescence microscope after being excited with three specific wavelength ranges: blue, violet, and ultraviolet. Sections also were examined with bright-field illumination. The exocuticle, which emitted red to orange metachromatic fluorescence, was easily distinguished from the endocuticle, which emitted green to blue orthochromatic fluorescence. 
40206200|For simultaneous hermaphrodites, a male-to-female shift in sex allocation with growth, and weak sexual selection on the male function, is predicted by many theories, although empirical data for both predictions are insufficient for internally fertilizing hermaphrodites with nonreciprocal mating. To address these issues, I studied mating and egg-laying behavior of the sea hare, Aplysia kurodai (Gastropoda: Opisthobranchia) in the laboratory. Both frequency and duration of egg laying increased with body weight, indicating that fecundity increased with weight. On the other hand, frequency and duration of mating as males did not increase with body weight, suggesting that sperm usage was independent of weight. Therefore, sex allocation shifted from male to female functions with growth. The lack of a relationship between body weight and mating activities as males also suggests that there was no "female" choice for large partners. However, the frequency of mating as females increased with body weight, suggesting "male" choice for large partners. This "male" choice is further supported by the presence of size-assortative mating and a longer duration of mating when the female partner was large. In addition, the variance in mating frequency as females was larger than that as males. As a whole, the mating behavior in A. kurodai can be summarized as choosy as males and unchoosy as females, the opposite of the patterns known in most gonochoric and hermaphroditic animals.
3701447|The snail Helix lucorum has been used as a model to study the adaptation of a nitric oxide (NO)-forming enteric neural network to the long-term resting period of summer estivation or winter hibernation. Quantification of the NO-derived nitrite established that NO formation is confined to the nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-containing myenteric network of the mid-intestine. In active snails but not in resting snails, NO production could be enhanced by the NOS substrate L-arginine (L-ARG, 1 mM). We followed the enteric NO synthesis in a snail population kept at natural conditions for 1 year. Our findings indicate that NO synthesis was depressed in July during entry to the estivation, had a peak in autumn before hibernation, and finally was reduced during hibernation. Monoamines (histamine, serotonin, and adrenalin) could inhibit the NO liberation in active snails. Cofactors of NOS (
10.2307/3226912|The discovery of a fungal commensal on the gills of Bathynerita naticoidea, the dominant gastropod at petroleum seep communities located along the Gulf of Mexico upper continental slope (500-800 m), is reported. Light and electron micrographs revealed filamentous fungi of the class Ascomycetes and unidentified fungal bodies associated with the gill tissue of each of the 7 freshly collected specimens of B. naticoidea examined. Fungi were found attached to the surface of the gill cells, intercellularly, within the gill blood spaces, enclosed in otherwise empty intracellular vacuoles, and external but adjacent to the gill tissue. The exact nature of this fungal association is unknown; the fungi may act to detoxify the hydrocarbons and sulfide compounds of the seep environment, or may be parasites that have infected the gill tissue. Although chemoautotrophic and methanotrophic bacterial symbionts have been found previously within the gills of deep-sea (2200-3000 m) hydrothermal vent gastropods, there was no evidence of bacterial symbionts within the gills of B. naticoidea. This is the first report of a fungal association within gastropods endemic to hydrocarbon seep or hydrothermal vent communities.
3227167| Life-history attributes and the reproductive biology of Enchytraeus coronatus (Oligochaeta, Enchytraeidae) were studied in agar cultures, as a basis for using this species in toxicity tests and other experimental studies. The use of agar allows daily examination of the behavior, reproduction, and mortality of the worms. At 20C, E. coronatus had a generation time of 21-22 days and an embryonic period of 7-10 days. Hatch rate was high (>80%) and worms became sexually mature 8-10 days after hatching. Cocoon production and number of eggs per cocoon were positively correlated. Mortality in the first stages of the life cycle (embryonic period and first week after hatching) was about 38%. Three different periods of cocoon production were distinguished: a period characterized by a regular increase in the number of cocoons produced (weeks 4-9), a period of production at a constant high rate of ~5 cocoons per week (weeks 10-20), and a period of decline in production rate (weeks 21-32), down to a mean value of 1.6 cocoons per adult in the last week. This study showed that synchronized agar cultures of cohorts can provide adults for long-term experimental tests, with the age for optimum reproduction being 8-20 weeks. 
3701508|The functional morphology and the topographic distribution of tissues in the reproductive system of specimens of Dugesia leporii, an endemic Sardinian free-living planarian, are investigated. Data are provided on the nature of epithelial and glandular secretions, spermatophores, and cocoons by histochemistry, light microscopy, and scanning electron microscopy. All secreting epithelial cells produce strongly acidic sulfated glycoproteins. Glandular cells secrete strongly acidic sulfated glycoproteins or keratohyalin-like material in the penis bulb, and prekeratin-like material in atrial glands. Secretions of the bursa copulatrix may be involved in the activation of sperm while material produced by the bursa canal and oviducts probably serves to propel spermatophores or sperm and eggs. Mucous secretion of the seminal vesicle may serve to dilute and activate sperm before copulation. The viscous secrete of the ejaculatory duct and vasa deferentia may play a protective role to maintain sperm viability. Materials produced by the penis papilla and atrium probably lubricate the epithelial surface. The bilayered wall of spermatophore made of keratohyalin-like material and strongly acidic sulfated glycoproteins is produced by two gland types of the penis bulb. The bilayered shell of cocoon made of prekeratin-like and keratohyalin-like materials is secreted by both atrial glands and vitelline cells. The cocoon stalk is made of keratohyalin-like material produced by cement glands. Shell glands, producing GAG, are not involved in cocoon formation, but they may be implicated in the dilution and activation of seminal material to favor sperm movement toward the oviducts.
10.2307/3226894|Epibiont ciliates on the exoskeleton of the decapod crustacean Liocarcinus depurator, a portunid crab collected off the Mediterranean coast of Spain, included 11 species, belonging to three subclasses. The chonotrich Chilodochona quennerstedti, the most abundant species, colonized specific sites on the crab, the mouthparts. The peritrichs, identified as Zoothamnium sp. and Cothurnia sp., and the suctorians, identified as Acineta tuberosa, Acineta papillifera, Ephelota gemmipara, Actinocyathula homari, Paracineta limbata, Conchacineta constricta, Corynophrya anisostyla, and Acinetides symbiotica, were generally less site-specific. Feeding activities, burying behavior, and molt state of the host crab, and competition between ciliate species, are mentioned as the most important factors in the occurrence of ciliates on the crustacean body.
40981236|We examined the nuchal organs of adults of the nereidid polychaete Platynereis dumerilii by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The most prominent features of the nuchal organs are paired ciliary bands located dorsolaterally at the posterior margin of the prostomium. They are composed of primary sensory cells and multiciliated supporting cells, both covered by a thin cuticle. The supporting cells have motile cilia that penetrate the cuticle and are responsible for the movement of water. Subapically, they have a narrowed neck region; the spaces between the neck regions of these supporting cells comprise the olfactory chamber. The dendrites of the sensory cells give rise to a single modified cilium that crosses the olfactory chamber; numerous thin microvillus-like processes, presumably extending from the sensory cells, also traverse the olfactory chamber. At the periphery of the ciliated epithelium runs a large nervous process between the ciliated supporting cells. It consists of smaller bundles of sensory dendrites that unite to form the nuchal nerve, which leaves the ciliated epithelium basally and runs toward the posterior part of the brain, where the perikarya of the sensory cells are located in clusters. The ciliated epithelium of the nuchal organs is surrounded by non-ciliated, peripheral epidermal cells. Those immediately adjacent to the ciliated supporting cells have a granular cuticle; those further away have a smooth cuticle. The nuchal organs of epitokous individuals of P. dumerilii are similar to those described previously in other species of polychaetes and are a useful model for understanding the development of nuchal organs in polychaetes.
4124902|Life cycles, ploidy levels, reproductive modes, and regeneration capacities of laboratory populations of the southern Brazil freshwater planarians Girardia tigrina and Girardia schubarti were studied. The mating behavior and life cycle of different populations from both species were analyzed regarding their karyotype, body size, modes of reproduction, and regeneration potential. Reproduction was evaluated according to fecundity, fertility, and fissiparity indices. In both species we observed that diploid planarians are ~25% larger than triploid or mixoploid ones and that sexually reproducing populations have more offspring than asexual ones. Cocoon incubation time was shorter for G. tigrina, and G. schubarti showed a higher frequency of spontaneous malformations. G. tigrina was both more fecund (produced more cocoons) and more fertile (produced more hatchlings) than G. schubarti. The effects of alternative food sources (liver or egg yolk), demographic density, and water salt concentration were evaluated in different populations of both species. All evaluated environmental factors had effects on fecundity and fertility indices and were more prominent for G. schubarti than for G. tigrina. Our data suggest that the populations of G. schubarti were more sensitive to environmental factors, and thus may be useful as bioindicators.
3227066|Colonies of the branching Caribbean gorgonian Pseudopterogorgia elisabethae were subjected to partial mortality at 2 sites in the Bahamas to study how colony growth responds to disturbances such as harvesting, grazing, and storm damage. Colonies were clipped so that either 4 branches or 10 branches remained. Growth rates of branches were then monitored over 1 year and compared with nearby unclipped colonies. No significant differences were found between branch extension rates among the 3 treatments. Extension rates of newly formed branches were significantly greater in all treatments than among branches present at the start of the experiment. Per capita branching rates were greater on the more severely clipped colonies and were smallest on control colonies. The absolute number of branches that became mother branches did not differ among treatments. Colonies clipped so that 4 and 10 branches remained had the same average number of mother branches per colony, and there was no significant difference between treatments in the average number of new branches formed on the colonies. Per capita branching rates were significantly different among treatments only because the relative proportion of branches that became mother branches was higher in colonies with four branches than in treatments with more initial branches. Total growth (cumulative growth on all branches) was not significantly different between the 2 clipped treatments. Many of the control colonies suffered extensive damage, which may have obscured the comparison of clipped and unclipped treatments; however, within the range of these clipping treatments, differing levels of partial mortality did not lead to different recovery rates. The lack of treatment effects is particularly relevant to assessing the effects of harvest techniques on the recovery and productivity of harvested, naturally occurring, colonies.
23016671|Intraspecific variation in eye size in relation to ecological factors has not been well studied. Here, for the first time, we show that larger eyes in a freshwater crustacean may be associated with the presence of predators. In central Pennsylvania (USA), individuals of the amphipod crustacean Gammarus minus have significantly larger eyes in two freshwater springs with numerous fish predators (Cottus cognatus) than in three springs with few or no fish predators. Although we do not know the precise causes of these differences, this study and previous work on cave populations of G. minus suggest that eye size is an evolutionarily malleable trait that may respond to multiple selection pressures, either directly or indirectly. Three plausible explanations for the eye-size variation observed among our study populations include (1) larger eyes may enable amphipods to better detect and avoid fish predators, (2) fish predation favors nocturnal or shallow interstitial activity that is facilitated by larger, more light-sensitive eyes, or (3) the presence of fishes is associated with other environmental factors that may favor relatively large eyes. Available evidence suggests that the first hypothesis is the most viable explanation, but further study is required.
10.2307/3227017|The nervous system of the adult pike-tapeworm Triaenophorus nodulosus was studied to identify nerve cells and fibers immunoreactive to serotonin (5-HT) and RFamide (RF) on whole-mount preparations and frozen sections. Neurons immunoreactive to 5-HT were seen solely in the central nervous system, while those immunoreactive to RF occurred in the peripheral nervous system as well as in the central nervous system. In the scolex, both types of nerve fibers were found. While the gonads were not innervated by either fiber type, the reproductive tract showed RF-immunoreactive nerves. On the ultrastructural level, five types of neurons and three types of release sites and a neuromuscular junction could be distinguished. Levels of 5-HT, measured spectrofluorimetrically, were found to be lower in the tapeworm than in the tissues where it resides in its host, indicating a possibility that the parasite absorbs this bioamine from its environment.
10.2307/3226887|Hearts were implanted heterotopically into the hemocoel of the snail Biomphalaria glabrata from members of 7 pulmonate genera: Bulinus truncatus, Drepanotrema kermatoides, Helisoma trivolvis, Physa virgata, Planorbis atticus, Pseudosuccinea columella, and Segmentina hemisphaerula. Hearts from H. trivolvis withstood an initial host hemocytic response and continued to contract for 6 months. However, xenografts from the other 6 species were infiltrated and encapsulated by host hemocytes and underwent destruction between 1 and 15 days post-implantation. Graft destruction may have involved both immunological rejection and physiological incompatibility with recipient plasma, but the former was probably more important because (1) necrosis of heart myofibers occurred rapidly and only following hemocytic infiltration, and (2) some donor hearts possessed mostly euchromatic nuclei and continued to contract for up to 2 weeks when cultured in isotonic saline.
4124907|In many ways, the apposition eye of the erotylid fungus beetle Neotriplax lewisi resembles that of chrysomelids: its 400-500 mostly hexagonal ommatidia are of the acone type and possess "open rhabdoms," a tapetum is not present, and axons penetrate the basement membrane in distinct bundles of eight. The eye also shows some unusual features that, at present, defy clear functional interpretation. Firstly, the cuticle of the interfacetal areas stains differently from that of the corneal lenses and, secondly, the two rhabdom systems in each ommatidium (central and peripheral) both possess microvilli that are oriented in such a way as to permit e-vector discrimination. On the basis of comparisons with other open rhabdom eyes, it is postulated that vision in N. lewisi involves neither high resolving power nor superior absolute sensitivity. However, this beetle can distinguish illuminated from shaded areas, and seems specialized to make use of sky polarization (probably in the UV and green regions of the spectrum) and/or the position of the sun as a course-stabilizing function during flights.
3227069|The ability of an olfactory-dominant organism, the land snail Anguispira alternata, to negotiate an odor-permeable barrier to obtain food in still air was tested. Thirty-nine snails were challenged with a "V"-shaped wire mesh fence that allowed them to get within 1 cm of their food but required them to turn away from the food to move around the fence. Fifteen snails were tested under the same conditions but without a food odor source present. Of the 39 snails tested with food, 22 moved up the odor gradient directly toward the food. Twentyone of these snails altered their foraging behavior by moving away from the odor source after they encountered the barrier. Twelve of these 21 moved along the fence to the food. The other 9 snails moved away from the fence and wandered about within the arena. Of the 39 snails tested, 17 did not move toward the food but by-passed the fence by either following the arena edge or moving toward the gap between the fence and the arena wall. Since some of these snails obtained the food without encountering the fence, a second experiment challenged 19 snails with a "J"-shaped fence in which one of the possible detour paths was blocked. There was no difference in the number of snails taking the blocked path vs. snails taking the open path. Therefore it is unlikely that these snails were able to detect the fence and plot a path around it before actually moving. In the 2 experiments, 91% of the snails that followed the odor gradient directly toward the food subsequently switched their foraging behavior. The ability of these snails to switch their foraging behavior was unexpected in an olfactory-dominant animal and suggests that their behavior is based on a significant amount of sensory processing.
3227135|It has long been speculated that Physa acuta, a pulmonate snail widespread and invasive in fresh waters of the old world, may have originated in North America. But the identification of a new-world cognate has been complicated by the confused systematics and taxonomy of the Physidae in America. More than 40 species of physids are currently recognized in the United States, many with variable and overlapping morphology. We have previously established that premating reproductive isolation is negligible among physid snails. Here we report the results from no-choice crosses each involving 2 populations of the widespread American species Physa heterostropha and Physa integra, both with each other and with P. acuta, designed to compare measures of reproductive success between species and between populations within species. Samples of P. acuta were collected from France and Ireland, P. heterostropha from eastern Pennsylvania and South Carolina, and P. integra from southern Indiana and northern Michigan. The 6 intrapopulation controls varied quite significantly in their survival, age at first reproduction, parental fecundity, F
10.2307/3227019|We interpret reduction of the claws on the fourth pair of legs as a convergent adaptation of interstitial soil-dwelling tardigrades. The eutardigrades Hexapodibius degenerans, Macrobiotus pseudohufelandi, and M. xerophilus are re-examined and H. degenerans re-described. Due to the absence of true claws on the fourth pair of legs and to the symmetry of its claws on the first three pairs of legs, H. degenerans is attributed to a new genus, Pseudohexapodibius, belonging to the family Macrobiotidae. On the basis of the peculiar type of claws, without a distinct peduncle, M. pseudohufelandi and M. xerophilus are attributed to another new genus of Macrobiotidae, Xerobiotus.
3227099|Haplotrema concavum, a carnivorous land snail, responds differently to the same prey when hunting versus when transporting food. The ability of these animals to distinguish between fresh, unmanipulated or uneaten prey and manipulated or partially eaten prey was tested by switching prey items while the predator was in the process of transporting the prey. Predators responded to a switch from a manipulated egg of Anguispira alternata to an unmanipulated egg by suspending transport behavior while the new egg was manipulated. Seven of ten predators responded to a switch from an egg of A. alternata to a conspecific (H. concavum) egg by stopping transport and abondoning the less-preferred food. Predators responded to a switch from partially eaten hatchlings of A. alternata to fresh but injured hatchlings by stopping transport after the retrieval stage to eat the new hatchling, after which transport was resumed. Predators which were not engaged in transport behavior attacked rather than retrieved fresh, injured hatchling prey. These results suggest that by manipulating its prey, the predator alters the sensory stimulus of the prey by marking the prey with predator mucus which, in turn, elicits the transport behavior by the predatory snail.
10.2307/3226874|Some 19 valid species of rotifers in the genus Colurella have been described from all parts of the world, mostly from littoral or interstitial habitats of fresh and salt waters. Colurella monodactylos and C. althausae, described from marine interstitial sands of the Black Sea and Caribbean, respectively, are significantly different from their congeners. Although no type specimens were deposited for either species, published drawings or photographs provide enough evidence to conclude that both of these "rotifers" are in fact ciliated protists of the family Dysteriidae, probably of the genus Dysteria.
40206210|We compared growth rates and final morphological states of the athecate colonial hydroid Podocoryna carnea in two nutritional environments: one varying the quantity of food provided at a fixed interval and the second varying the time between feedings of a fixed quantity. In both environments, replicate colonies were either fed uniformly, or fed on only one side and starved on the other. In addition, we fed colonies fluorescence-labeled cultures of Anemia salina and documented the subsequent distribution of label. We found that both the growth rates and the final morphological state varied logarithmically with food supply. Heterogeneous feeding had a marked effect on colony morphology, with a sharp boundary in polyp number, stolon density, and polyp size forming at the fed-unfed interface. The distribution of fluorescence was correlated with sites of colony growth. These results confirm and extend early work on the priority of growth zones in colonial hydroids, and present new challenges for understanding the relationship among energy metabolism, gastrovascular circulation, and colony form.
3227079|After feeding, polyps of colonial hydroids contract regularly, dispersing food throughout the colony via the gastrovascular fluid. Such contractions may trigger signaling pathways that allow colonies to grow in an adaptive manner, i.e., to initiate development of more polyps in food-rich areas and to suppress polyp development in food-poor areas. In this context, we investigated the structure and potential signaling of the junction between polyps and stolons in colonies of the hydroid Podocoryna carnea. Using transmission electron microscopy, we found that the density of mitochondrion-rich epitheliomuscular cells was low in polyp and stolon tissues except at or near the polyp-stolon junction, where many of these mitochondrion-rich cells occur in ectodermal tissue. In vivo fluorescence microscopy suggests that these mitochondria are a principal source of the metabolic signals of the colony. Both native fluorescence of NAD(p)h and fluorescence from peroxides (visualized with H
10.2307/3226924|In the literature, 69 references altogether have reported 76 predators on holothurians. In terms of the number of predatory species, the most important predators are fishes (26 species), seastars (19 species), and crustaceans (17 species). Seastars are the predators most often cited as regularly ingesting large quantities of holothurians. Toxicity seems to be an effective defense against a generalized predator but, against a specialist on holothurians, escape by swimming movements or shedding of a piece of body wall are the only behaviors that occasionally end with a successful escape. Escape behaviors may be a factor in providing the apparent size refuge from predators. Impacts of predators on holothurian populations have rarely been reported or evaluated, and predation on the earliest life stage is unknown.
4621921|Morphological criteria defining the Nudipleura and sister group relationships among the three nudipleuran subgroups (pleurobranchoideans, anthobranch nudibranchs, and cladobranch nudibranchs) have been controversial. Analysis of larval stages may help resolve these uncertainties by identifying additional phylogenetically informative characters, but existing information on pleurobranchoidean larvae is meager. We studied larval development and metamorphosis of the pleurobranchoidean Berthella californica using histological sections, scanning and transmission electron microscopy, and immunolabeling of neurons within the larval apical ganglion. We also provide comparative data on other nudipleuran larvae that may be useful for phylogenetic reconstruction. Berthella californica fills a previously unoccupied place within an evolutionary scenario that derives nudibranchs from pleurobranchoideans, two groups in which the larval mantle fold forms the post-metamorphic notum (dorsal epidermis). In B. californica, reflection of the mantle fold epithelium to form the notum begins at metamorphosis, as also occurs in nudibranchs, whereas mantle reflection in other pleurobranchoideans begins well before metamorphosis. Dissolution of overgrown shell walls inside the protoconch and formation of the post-metamorphic notum from the inner epithelium of the larval mantle fold may be synapomorphies of the Nudipleura. The larval shell in B. californica is additionally noteworthy because it acquires bilateral symmetry later in development, which is very unusual among larval opisthobranchs. We demonstrate an osphradium in the larvae of two pleurobranchoideans and one anthobranch nudibranch, although adults lack this trait. We also identified an autapomorphy of cladobranch nudibranchs in the form of five ampullary neurons within the larval apical ganglion, whereas other planktotrophic opisthobranch larvae have only four of these neurons. Although our data provide morphological criteria defining both the Nudipleura and the cladobranch nudibranchs, they are insufficient to resolve sister group relationships within the Nudipleura.
4621924| Glacial cycles and other climatic events have been widely invoked as factors promoting divergence, secondary contact, and hybridization between populations of terrestrial organisms, but the origin and fate of secondary contact in the sea is much less well understood. We studied the distribution of morphological and genetic variation in a northwest Atlantic zone of secondary contact between congeneric sea stars of Asterias that probably separated after the Pliocene as part of the trans-Arctic interchange. These species have similar reproductive biology and can hybridize in the laboratory. However, multivariate analysis of morphological traits scored from sea stars inside and outside the zone of secondary contact clearly indicated two clusters of phenotypes that corresponded to the two taxonomic species. A quantitative analysis of this clustering pattern did not support the hypothesis of a third grouping that might correspond to intermediate hybrid phenotypes. Known F hybrids from laboratory matings grouped with one of the two taxonomic species. However, a survey of mtDNA sequence variation clearly indicated that 13% of individuals of one species (Asterias forbesi) are descendants of hybridization events that resulted in introgression of haplotypes of Asterias rubens into populations of A. forbesi. We conclude that morphological phenotypes are inadequate to identify hybrids of Asterias and their descendants, and that hybridization and introgression might be common in this secondary contact zone. 
3227195|We studied the effects of brackish water on larval attachment, events of metamorphosis, and juvenile mortality in three colonial ascidian species that live in a Florida coastal lagoon. Eudistoma olivaceum and Eudistoma hepaticum are restricted in their adult distribution to areas of relatively high and constant salinity near inlets, whereas Ecteinascidia turbinata extends more than 20 km into the Indian River, where salinity can be much more variable. In all three species, metamorphosis proceeded more quickly at 33 ppt than at lower salinities. The thresholds for successful metamorphosis differed among species in a manner that corresponded to the adult distributions, with E. turbinata being capable of completing metamorphosis at salinities as low as 22 ppt, E. hepaticum as low as 24 ppt, and E. olivaceum as low as 26 ppt. Larvae of both Eudistoma species delayed settlement in very low salinity water, whereas those of E. turbinata settled very quickly, then failed to complete metamorphosis. Juvenile mortality at salinities lower than 22 ppt was 100% for all three species. Survival in salinities higher than 22 ppt was strongly correlated with salinity in E. olivaceum and E. hepaticum, but not E. turbinata.
3227154|The problem of similarity is one of explaining the causes of striking resemblances between patterns and architectural themes that recur in organisms at various scales of biological organization. Classical explanations that have considered only the alternatives of homology and analogy overlook similarities of form that are primarily a consequence of fabrication, conveying little information about evolutionary relationships or functional role. When viewed at successively higher magnifications and when mapped onto a phylogeny, patterns of delicate cancellate microsculpture and granular microprotuberances on the surfaces of larval shells of marine gastropods fail to meet the predictions of exclusively historical or exclusively functional explanations, but are shown to be rich in fabricational information. Similar patterns suggest that early biomineralization of the initial organic shell is under weaker biological control than the processes that modulate assembly of the multi-layered, hierarchically-organized composite materials of the adult shell. Some patterns suggest remote biomineralization, without direct influence of living tissue. Scanning electron microscopy of larval shell features reveals previously undetected variation on basic themes that may have implications for the traditional disciplines of systematics, functional morphology, and fabricational morphology. The integration of the approaches of the traditional divisions of biology is required for full explanation of similarity and to generate a unified set of principles for the analysis of form in living and fossil organisms.
3701445|Species-level identification is difficult in the symbiotic bivalve-inhabiting hydrozoans of the genus Eugymnanthea (Cnidaria, Hydrozoa). Morphological differences are detected only in the adult medusoid stage. Eugymnanthea is known only from the Mediterranean and the western Pacific, and doubt persists over whether the two localities are inhabited by different species. Because the bivalve host, Mytilus galloprovincialis, is thought to have been introduced by humans from the Mediterranean to the western Pacific, there has been speculation that the Mediterranean Eugymnanthea was also introduced along with its host. Here, we evaluate the species status of the two hydrozoan forms with breeding experiments, morphology, and two recently developed tools for discrimination: a mesoglea cell adhesion and spreading test, and 16S rDNA comparison. Reciprocal crosses of the two forms failed to produce normal offspring, providing evidence that they are indeed different species according to the biological species concept, and suggesting that the Pacific form is not an invasion of the Mediterranean form. The tissue-grafting test failed to distinguish between the two forms, while the morphological and genetic evidence corroborated the breeding results.
10.2307/3227051|In hermaphrodites, the cost of sexuality can favor the spread of parthenogenesis in two ways. First, it can promote higher female fecundity in parthenogens that have reduced allocation to the male function. Second, if parthenogens have retained a fertile male function, they can spread genes for parthenogenesis into a coexisting sexual population. We present evidence for both effects in a natural population of the flatworm Schmidtea polychroa. Parthenogens, which have a reduced male function, had 42% higher female fecundity than coexisting sexuals. New, presumably parthenogenetic, triploids arose out of the diploid sexual population at a frequency of 1.3%, probably as a result of gene flow from parthenogens to sexuals. However, we could also identify a strong compensating fitness benefit for sexuals: they had substantially higher female fertility than coexisting parthenogens, both in terms of cocoon fertility (93% and 74% respectively) and offspring per fertile cocoon (3.6 and 2.8 respectively).
10.2307/3226932|The technique of endoscopic examination and video-image analysis has allowed for in vivo observations of adult, bivalve molluscs and has led to a more accurate understanding of suspension-feeding processes in these animals. Several mechanisms, however, needed to be examined further. For example, the process by which particles are captured by the ctenidia remained unclear, and current models of this process did not adequately explain in vivo observations of capture events. In addition, the kinematics of particle processing by the labial palps and mode of particle ingestion have remained undefined. In this study I use results from endoscopic observations of nine species of bivalves to provide an integrated description of suspension feeding. These observations reveal that particle feeding is accomplished by both mucociliary and hydrodynamic mechanisms that often act simultaneously on the pallial organs. I introduce a model of particle capture that focuses on the ctenidial filament as the capture unit, unlike previous work that emphasized the laterofrontal cilia or cirri. The model is consistent with accepted fluid dynamic principles. In vivo observations in bivalves indicate that the suspension-feeding complex as a whole is, functionally, more than merely the sum of its parts.
10.2307/3226985|Secondary sex characters appear in many heterotardigrades and a limited number of species of eutardigrades. In the eutardigrades Milnesium tardigradum and Pseudobiotus megalonyx, males are considered to always have modified claws on the first pair of legs; the basal branch of both claws in Milnesium and of the inner claw in Pseudobiotus is shaped like a robust hook. We examined one gonochoristic population of both Milnesium tardigradum and of Pseudobiotus megalonyx to evaluate the association of the modified claws with the presence of male germ cells in the testis. Three additional populations of Milnesium tardigradum were examined to provide data on the frequency of the modified claw among all individuals. In both species, molting animals were found with normal claws on the front legs of the old cuticle and modified claws on the front legs of the new cuticle. Examination of the gonad revealed that both species may have males with and without the modified claws. The appearance of the modified claw probably occurs at the last molt, and is used in mating when the male attaches to the female during copulation. Since this secondary sex character is not always present during the life of the tardigrade, but appears after a molt, a sex ratio determined only by the presence of the modified claw is not valid.
10.2307/3226863|The most basal clades of gastropods may lack feeding larval stages in all surviving species, although many species have planktonic veliger larvae with a preoral (prototrochal) band of cilia for locomotion. We examined subvelar cilia and currents for comparison with feeding larvae of other gastropods. The larvae represented three major groups of archaeogastropod grade: the lottiid limpets Lottia pelta and Tectura scutum, the fissurellid limpet Diodora aspera, and the trochid Calliostoma ligatum. Subvelar cilia immediately adjacent to the prototroch were longer than those farther posterior. Subvelar currents were from posterior to anterior along dorsal areas of the velum and from anterior to posterior along ventral areas of the velum. These observed particle paths and inferred directions of beat of subvelar cilia suggest a cleansing function, with currents exiting the mantle cavity in an anterior direction dorsally and laterally and moving posteriorly to join ciliary currents along the foot ventrally. Only in C. ligatum were particles sometimes transported in the dorsal to ventral direction just below the prototrochal band and then only when the prototrochal cilia were arrested. Particles were not captured between bands of cilia with opposed ciliary beat, transported toward the mouth in a ciliated food groove, or ingested by the archaeogastropod veligers, whereas these events were observed easily in other gastropod veligers. Fluorescence of algae was absent in guts of the archaeogastropod veligers exposed to phytoplankton but present in guts of other gastropod veligers. These observations support the hypothesis that veligers of the Patellogastropoda and Vetigastropoda do not feed and that the subvelar cilia serve other functions. If capacity to feed has been lost, subvelar ciliation has been modified for other functions, perhaps cleansing. If the ciliation represents the ancestral condition, then ciliation for cleansing may have been modified for feeding.
3227249|Access to the ventral nerve cord in living specimens of Lumbriculus variegatus, an aquatic oligochaete, is normally impossible because surgical invasion induces segmental autotomy (self-fragmentation). We show here that nicotine is a powerful paralytic agent that reversibly immobilizes worms, blocks segmental autotomy, and allows experimental access to the nerve cord. Using nicotine-treated worms, we transected the ventral nerve cord and used non-invasive electrophysiological recordings and behavioral analyses to characterize the functional recovery of giant nerve fibers and other reflex pathways. Initially, after transection, medial giant fiber (MGF) and lateral giant fiber (LGF) spikes conducted up to, but not across, the transection site. Reestablishment of MGF and LGF through-conduction across the transection site occurred as early as 10 h (usually by 20 h) after transection. Analyses of non-giant-mediated behavioral responses (i.e., helical swimming and body reversal) were also made following nerve cord transection. Immediately after transection, functional reorganization of touch-evoked locomotor reflexes occurred, so that the two portions of the worm anterior and posterior to the transection site were independently capable of helical swimming and body reversal responses. Similar reorganization of responses occurred in amputated body fragments. Reversion back to the original whole-body pattern of swimming and reversal occurred as early as 8 h after transection. Thus, functional restoration of the non-giant central pathways appeared slightly faster than giant fiber pathways. The results demonstrate the remarkable plasticity of locomotor reflex behaviors immediately after nerve cord transection or segment amputation. They also demonstrate the exceptional speed and specificity of regeneration of the central pathways that mediate locomotor reflexes.
3227216|Androdioecy is a rare form of mating system in which species comprise males and hermaphrodites. One recently described case of androdioecy is the freshwater crustacean Eulimnadia texana. A mathematical model of the mating system of this shrimp suggests that males and hermaphrodites should only coexist under limited circumstances. One possible factor not considered in this model would extend the conditions for coexistence: the possibility of sperm storage in the hermaphrodites. Here we use genetically marked matings between males and hermaphrodites to determine if hermaphrodites can store male sperms. Eggs were collected from hermaphrodites both in the presence of a male and after the male was removed. A total of 30 of these matings had successful hatches, but only 14 of these 30 could be used to test for sperm storage. In these 14 cases, an average of 35% of the eggs were outcrossed when males were present, but only 0.4% were outcrossed after males were removed. Thus, sperm storage by hermaphrodites was an insignificant factor in the production of offspring. These data suggest that sperm storage cannot help explain the coexistence of males and hermaphrodites in natural populations of this crustacean.
23016260|Pachechinus bajulus is an endemic Australian sea urchin with an unusual mode of brooded larval development. We used mitochondrial and nuclear gene sequences to estimate the phylogenetic relationships among Pachechinus and other Echinometridae, including well-studied species of Heliocidaris with planktonic development. We found strong evidence for the planktotrophic species Heliocidaris tuberculata as the sister group to a clade of three closely related species in which development is known (Heliocidaris erythrogramma, P. bajulus) or suspected (Pachechinus australiae) to be lecithotrophic. Clade support values and likelihood ratio tests rejected monophyly of Heliocidaris species. The sister group to H. erythrogramma is most likely the two Pachechinus species. We resolve the paraphyly problem by reassigning the Pachechinus species to the genus Heliocidaris (the senior synonym), which has six extant species including Heliocidaris australiae and Heliocidaris bajulus. The phylogeny has potentially important implications for comparative studies of developmental morphology and genetics that have assumed a close sister-group relationship between H. erythrogramma and H. tuberculata, and highlights the need for such data from H. bajulus and other Heliocidaris species.
3701498| The parasitic mite Riccardoella limacum sucks blood in the lung of its host, the land snail Arianta arbustorum. The infection of various host populations was examined in Switzerland. In a lowland snail population, prevalence of infection did not vary among seasons. However, intensity of mite infection in dissected individuals of A. arbustorum was high in autumn, but low in winter and spring when 100 mite eggs were found attached to the lung epithelium. A novel, non-invasive parasite screening method was used to estimate the number of mites on living host snails. An analysis of repeatability revealed that 92.9% of the snails were correctly classified as infected or non-infected with this non-invasive method. Prevalence of mite infection was examined in 997 adults of A. arbustorum from 11 natural populations distributed over an altitudinal gradient ranging 335-2360 m. No infected snails were found in 7 populations, while in the remaining 4 populations the prevalence of mite infection ranged 45.8-77.8%. Intensity of infection also differed among the 4 host populations. No geographic pattern in prevalence of infection was found. However, parasitic mites did not occur in snail populations situated at elevations of 1290 m or higher. A possible explanation for this finding could be that the host's hibernation period may be too long at high elevations for mites and their eggs to survive. At low elevations, other factors may affect the presence of R. limacum in the lung of A. arbustorum. 
10.2307/3227057|In contrast to the Annelida, no trace of the developing coelomic cavities persists in the body cavity of postembryonal stages of Onychophora and Euarthropoda; instead, a primary body cavity or haemocoel is characteristic for these stages. Transitory coelomic cavities, which appear in certain developmental stages of arthropods, are generally regarded as recapitulation of paired and segmental coelomic cavities of the common ancestor of annelids and arthropods. If this is true, a specific organization of these cavities with respect to the annelid coelom is to be expected. In order to test this assumption, the transitory coelomic cavities of the onychophoran Epiperipatus biolleyi are investigated ultrastructurally and compared with data on the coelomogenesis of the polychaetous annelids Ophelia rathkei, Spirorbis spirorbis, and Pectinaria koreni. The somatic wall of the transitory coelom of Epiperipatus biolleyi is thicker than the visceral (splanchnic) wall; the lining cells are apically connected by adhaerens junctions and possess a rudimentary cilium, and are otherwise largely undifferentiated. The latter observation is clearly in contrast to comparably differentiated coelomic cavities in annelids. During further development the haemocoel is formed in Epiperipatus biolleyi. A survey of the older literature reveals that in the Onychophora the haemocoel is formed by fusing interstices within the subepidermal and peri-intestinal matrix, and not by a fusion of such interstices and the coelomic cavities.
3227273|In contrast to marine bryozoans, the lophophore structure and the ciliary filterfeeding mechanism in freshwater bryozoans have so far been only poorly described. Specimens of the phylactolaemate bryozoan Plumatella repens were studied to clarify the tentacular ciliary structures and the particle capture mechanism. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the tentacles of the lophophore have a frontal band of densely packed cilia, and on each side a zigzag row of laterofrontal cilia and a band of lateral cilia. Phalloidin-linked fluorescent dye showed no sign of muscular tissue within the tentacles. Video microscopy was used to describe basic characteristics of particle capture. Suspended particles in the incoming water flow, set up by the lateral 'pump' cilia on the tentacles, approach the tentacles with a velocity of 1-2 mm s
3701503|The terrestrial hermit crab Coenobita compressus H. Milne Edwards undergoes larval development in the sea and then moves to land as a megalopa, where it metamorphoses and remains for the rest of its life. As a small organism (generally < 3 mg), in a body adapted for pelagic life, the megalopa must avoid desiccating in air to make a successful sea-to-land transition. In this study, I measured rates of water loss in 1 to 26-day-old megalopae without mollusk shells to determine if there is an improvement in desiccation resistance with age. I also exposed 26-day-old megalopae with or without shells to different relative-humidity conditions for 1 h to determine if shells worn by megalopae allow them to function in air that is not fully saturated. Megalopae without shells did not survive exposure to a relative humidity (RH) of less than 99%, while those with shells survived 52% RH. Older megalopae lost water more slowly than younger ones. However, the amount of body water explained more of the variation in water-loss rate than age; individuals with smaller body-water masses showed lower rates of absolute water loss. Though megalopae of C. compressus become less water permeable as they approach metamorphosis on land, most of their ability to avoid desiccation comes from the shell. Shell-wearing can be considered a pre-adaptation to a terrestrial life-style because shell-wearing behavior predates land invasion in hermit crabs, and desiccation-proofing in air is a novel function for shells.
10.2307/3226862|The ultrastructural features of the ovary and oogenesis have been examined in the neritid gastropod Bathynerita naticoidea, a bathyal species endemic to oil and gas seeps in the Gulf of Mexico. This is the first ultrastructural study of vitellogenesis in any archaeogastropod. The ovary is an acinous organ containing oocytes in all stages of oogenesis. Oocytes are closely associated with hypertrophic follicle cells that may play a role in oocyte nutrition. Vitellogenesis is a complex process involving both autosynthetic and heterosynthetic pathways that contribute to the formation of at least three types of yolk bodies. Type I yolk bodies appear to be synthesized autosynthetically through the combined efforts of the Golgi complex and rough endoplasmic reticulum. Type II yolk bodies have an uncertain origin but share many ultrastructural characteristics with mitochondria, suggesting that they may be derived from the latter organelles. Type III yolk bodies appear to form through the heterosynthetic uptake of extra-oocytic precursors via receptor-mediated endocytosis. Oocytes also accumulate lipid droplets and glycogen granules. Vitellogenesis in this species shows similarities with that described previously in a caenogastropod and some heterobranch (opisthobranchs and pulmonates) species.
4621905|The germinal epithelium of sea urchin gonads contains two interdependent populations of cells: somatic cells called nutritive phagocytes (NPs) and germ cells-ovarian and testicular gonial cells and their derivatives, gametocytes and gametes. Annually, NPs vary their structure and function to produce a changing microenvironment for germ cells during gametogenesis and after spawning. Here, we describe seasonal changes in the NPs as they interact with germ cells during successive gametogenic stages in both sexes of the green sea urchin, Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis. Monthly samples were collected from the Gulf of Maine at a depth of 10m and analyzed with light microscopy and stereology. Shorter day length and falling seawater temperatures were correlated with nutrient mobilization from NPs, initiation of gonial cell mitosis, and subsequent gametogenesis. During gametogenesis, NPs in both sexes were depleted of nutrients and eventually phagocytize residual ova or spermatozoa. Observations from this study are important for understanding both the cellular aspects of the reproductive biology of sea urchins and those environmental factors that affect the onset and progress of gametogenesis.
10.2307/3226930|Euchaeta rimana, a pelagic marine copepod, roams a 3-dimensional environment and its antennular setal sensors are oriented to detect water-borne signals in 3 dimensions. When the copepod moves through water or moves water around itself, it creates a fluid disturbance distinct from the ambient fluid motion. As it swims and hovers, the copepod's laminar feeding current takes the unstable nature of small-scale turbulence, organizes it, and makes the local domain a familiar territory within which signals can be specified in time and space. The streamlines betray both the 3-dimensional spatial location (x, y, z) as well as the time (t) separating a signal caught in the feeding current and the copepod receptor-giving the copepod early warning of the approach of a prey, predator, or mate. The copepod reduces the complexity of its environment by fixing information from a turbulent field into a simpler, more defined laminar field. We quantitatively analysed small-scale fluid deformations created by copepods to document the strength of the signal. Physiological and behavioral tests confirm (a) that these disturbances are relevant signals transmitting information between zooplankters and (b) that hydrodynamically conspicuous structures, such as feeding currents, wakes, and vibrations, elicit specific responses from copepods. Since fluid mechanical signals do elicit responses, copepods shape their fluid motion to advertise or to conceal their hydrodynamic presence. When swimming, a copepod barely leaves a trace in the water; the animal generates its flow and advances into the area from which the water is taken, covering up its tracks with the velocity gradient it creates around itself. When escaping, it sheds conspicuous vortices. Prey caught in a flow field expose their location by hopping. These escape hops shed jet-like wakes detected by copepod mechanoreceptors. Copepods recognize the wakes and respond adaptively.
40206233|Animal genitalia are often complex and thought to vary little within species but differ between closely related species making them useful as primary characters in species diagnosis. Spiders are no exception, with nearly all of the 40,462 (at the time of this writing) described species differentiated by genitalic characteristics. However, in some cases, the genitalia of putative species are not uniform, but rather vary within species. When intraspecific variation overlaps interspecific variation, it can be difficult (if not impossible) to place a name on a specimen. The quantification of shape variation in genitalia has not often been attempted, probably because until recently it was not a methodologically and computationally simple process. In the two currently recognized species of the spider genus Homalonychus, genitalic variation is rampant in both male and female structures, with some parts of the genitalia (e.g., the retrolateral tibial apophysis) differing in each specimen examined. In this study, geometric morphometric analysis employing landmark data is used to quantify both intra- and interspecific variation in this genus. The large amount of variation is condensed into two or three groups depending on the structures examined, and these groups correspond to either the two species or to previously established mitochondrial DNA clades within one of the species. The results also show that analyses of female structures do not separate the groups as readily as the analyses of the male structures. The large amount of variation present in some structures is not correlated with geography or population genetic structure.
10.2307/3227035|The cheilostome bryozoan Fenestrulina rugula is a major component of the encrusting fauna of physically disturbed shallow water habitats in Antarctica. On rocks collected from Rothera Point, Adelaide Island, F. rugula was the dominant occupier of space (88% of all bryozoans, 76% of all fauna), though spirorbid polychaetes showed more colonisation events per unit area. Growth rate was relatively rapid in comparison with other polar bryozoans, but slower than temperate or tropical species. In fully reproductive colonies almost 80% of zooids carried ovicells. Colonies whose growth brought them into contact with other encrusting fauna (usually another colony of F. rugula) produced smaller zooids and initiated ovicell production earlier than unrestrained colonies. Analysis of overgrowth interactions showed that F. rugula was a relatively poor competitor compared with other encrusting bryozoans, and most within-species interactions were indeterminate. Population mortality was relatively high, averaging 89% per annum, although not as high as in some other species from ephemeral habitats. F. rugula is thus a typical early coloniser in being relatively fast-growing, quick to mature, short-lived and a relatively poor competitor. The population dynamics and ecology of this assemblage dominant appear to have been influenced primarily by the ephemeral nature of its habitat.
40206204|Crustaceans in the class Branchiopoda exhibit a wide range of breeding systems, including dioecy (gonochorism), androdioecy, parthenogenesis, cyclic parthenogenesis, and hermaphroditism. The largest subgroup of the Branchiopods, the Diplostraca, is reported to encompass all five of these breeding systems. However, many of these reports are based primarily on simple observations of sex ratios in natural populations. Herein we report the beginnings of a more rigorous approach to breeding system determination in the Diplostraca, starting with the family Limnadiidae. We combine measurements of sex ratio, offspring rearings, and behavior to identify three breeding systems within the Limnadiidae: dioecy, androdioecy, and selfing hermaphroditism. To date, no instances of parthenogenetic reproduction have been identified in this family. Comparisons of breeding system determination via simple population sex ratios with our more controlled studies show that simple sex ratios can be useful when these sex ratios are ~ 50% males (=dioecy) or 5-30% males (androdioecy). However, population sex ratios of 0-5% males or 35-45% males necessitate further investigation because estimates in these ranges cannot distinguish selfing hermaphroditism from androdioecy or androdioecy from dioecy, respectively. We conclude by noting that the genetic sex-determining system outlined for one of these limnadiid species, Eulimnadia texana, provides a parsimonious framework to describe the evolution of the three breeding systems observed within the Limnadiidae.
10.2307/3226996|Electron microscopical studies of sperms and spermiogenesis, and of the pigment-cup eyes of four species of Pogaina (suecica, natans, kinnei, and an undescribed species) revealed features common to the genus, as well as intrageneric variation. In common with many other free-living platyhelminths, sperms of these Pogaina spp. are filiform and biflagellate and lack an acrosome. Sperm characters distinctive to the genus include an arching formation over flagella during development, a spiralling ridge on the anterior sperm projection, globular condensations in the nucleus, and a tendency for the two flagella to fuse with one another. In sperms of the two sympatric species P. natans and P. kinnei the paired flagella are joined by a double bridge structure. The eyes of the four species have massive lens elements of mitochondrial origin, connected to the pigment cell by cytoplasmic bridges. The number of these elements, however, varies between species, as does the number of photoreceptor sensory cells. Sperm data suggest that P. natans and P. kinnei are the most closely related, while P. suecica may be a sister taxon to the other three. Sperm and eye data reveal substantial variability within the genus and emphasize the need for taxonomic depth in ultrastructural studies to inform cladistic phylogenetic analyses.
4621902|Serpulidae encompasses polychaete species whose members have fused anterior ends bearing a tentacular crown, a heteronomous segmented body with a thorax and abdomen, and "chaetal inversion" between the two tagmata. The sessile filter-feeding organisms live in self-built, coiled, calcareous tubes on algae. The F-actin muscular subset of Spirorbis cf. spirorbis was stained with phalloidin and three-dimensionally reconstructed by means of cLSM, aiming to investigate (1) how the tentacular crown is organized and moved, (2) whether the internal structures, e.g., musculature, follow the thorax-abdomen inversion, and (3) whether circular muscles are present in serpulids. The third aim is by reason of recent investigations suggesting that lack of circular muscle fibers may be a common situation rather than a rare variation in polychaetes. In this manner, this article is part of a comparative evaluation of polychaete muscle systems. We found that longitudinal muscles of the body wall project into the tentacular crown, and that radioli and pinnulae possess three muscle types each, facilitating their great mobility. Operculum, collar, and a pair of unidentified organs possess distinct F-actin filaments. The trunk is mainly moved by five longitudinal muscle strands, most obvious in the abdomen: two dorsal, two ventral, and an unpaired ventromedian one, out of which the dorsal ones are the strongest. In anterior regions, the two dorsal strands form a single continuous layer; the separated strands lessen posteriorly. Solitary transverse fibers are located ventrally in the middle of each segment, stretching between longitudinal muscles and coelomic lining laterally, where they end. Peripheral and central dorsoventral muscles, two pairs per segment each, are present. Circular fibers as well as bracing muscles were not detected. The results indicate that the musculature does not follow the thorax-abdomen inversion and Serpulidae represents the 15th polychaete taxon in which circular fibers are totally missing.
40206212|We examined the soft tissues of live freshwater mussels, Eastern elliptio Elliptio complanata, via magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), acquiring data with a widely available human whole-body MRI system. Anatomical features depicted in the profile images included the foot, stomach, intestine, anterior and posterior adductor muscles, and pericardial cavity. Noteworthy observations on soft tissue morphology included a concentration of lipids at the most posterior aspect of the foot, the presence of hemolymph-filled fissures in the posterior adductor muscle, the presence of a relatively large hemolymph-filled sinus adjacent to the posterior adductor muscle (at the ventral-anterior aspect), and segmentation of the intestine (a diagnostic description not reported previously in Unionidae). Relatively little is known about the basic biology and ecological physiology of freshwater mussels. Traditional approaches for studying anatomy and tissue processes, and for measuring sub-lethal physiological stress, are destructive or invasive. Our study, the first to evaluate freshwater mussel soft tissues by MRI, clarifies the body plan of unionid mussels and demonstrates the efficacy of this technology for in vivo evaluation of the structure, function, and integrity of mussel soft tissues.
10.2307/3226864|Nudibranch molluscs typically are semelparous, undergoing a single period of repeated spawning, and these opisthobranchs generally are categorized as obligately cross-fertilizing simultaneous hermaphrodites. The tropical corallivorous aeolid nudibranch Phestilla sibogae has a sub-annual life cycle, with individuals cycling from egg to egg in ~40 d and adults commonly attaining 30-40 mm in body length (~800-1700 mg live weight). Spawning (egg laying) may commence at 15-25 mm length (~90-480 mg). In a preliminary experiment, 22 individuals from batch cultures were paired at sizes expected to be pre-reproductive (5-7 mm; 3-8 mg) and the isolated couples further reared to first spawning. Larvae from each pair's first egg mass were cultured and juveniles reared to sizes at which they also could be typed electrophoretically. Comparisons between the parental and offspring genotypes for up to three allozyme loci revealed that, for 6 of the 11 pairings, certain offspring did not conform to parental genotypes: in total, 18% of all offspring typed were non-conforming, ranging up to 75% in one pair. Evidently P. sibogae can become inseminated at very small sizes, and may store sperm, despite the opportunity for continued and repeated copulation with a large adult partner. The first received allosperm may display high levels of fertilization success. Three further experiments involved the batch culture of post-larval juveniles and the subsequent isolation of individuals at varying sizes and ages. These latter experiments confirmed that P. sibogae can inseminate, and be inseminated, at extremely small sizes (~5-8 mg) and well in advance of their ability to lay fertile eggs. The relevance of sperm competition models to these data is discussed in the context of apparent first-partner precedence.
3227245|Neurocalcin is a calcium-binding protein that has been localized in neural and non-neural tissues of vertebrates, the arthropod Drosophila melanogaster, and in juveniles and adults of the mollusc Aplysia californica. We examine the distribution of neurocalcin in pre-hatching stages of the molluscs A. californica and Lymnaea stagnalis to elucidate where this calcium-binding protein functions in early development, as well as to localize novel neuronal populations in early stages of ontogeny. Aplysia neurocalcin (ApNc)-like immunoreactivity was localized in shell-secreting cells in embryonic stages of both A. californica and L. stagnalis. In A. californica, central and anterior regions of the embryo were diffusely labeled, as were a few identifiable neurons in veliger stages. On the other hand, in L. stagnalis, ApNc-like immunoreactivity was clearly detected in cells and fibers in the same locations as neuronal elements that have been previously identified very early in development and throughout the embryonic period using techniques to localize specific transmitters and peptides. Furthermore, additional neurons are also identified with anti- ApNc in this species. Establishing the distribution of neurocalcin-like proteins in embryonic stages of these two molluscs provides the first step to understanding the role of such proteins during development.
3227176|We describe the genital system of the aeolid nudibranch gastropod Aeolidiella glauca as a basis for our ongoing analysis of the mating system of this hermaphroditic species. In addition we give a short account of its mating behavior. A. glauca has an androdiaulic genital system with a proximally situated semiserial seminal receptacle. There is no bursa copulatrix. After fertilization, eggs pass through six glands, i.e., the capsule gland and the female gland mass which is comprised of five histologically differentiated parts. The prostate is a long, glandular tube. The everted, unarmed penis is very large and bears a series of 3-4 hook-shaped lobes consisting only of a simple, ciliated epithelium on its ventral side. Their function is unknown. After courtship, which involves moving in circles followed by resting in a head-to-head position, reciprocally touching each other with the tentacles, the slugs glide into a position where the everted genital atria are in contact. The huge penes are protruded simultaneously shortly after this contact occurs. Each animal strokes its partner's back with the penis and deposits a spermatophore of undetermined shape onto the partner's notum. Sperm enter the recipient through histolysis. How the sperm find their way to the seminal receptable is not known.
10.2307/3226879|The structure of the sperm storage organs found in females of the fabriciin sabellid species Manayunkia aestuarina and Fabricia stellaris is described. In both species, adult females have a pair of prostomial spermathecae, lying anterior and dorsal to the buccal opening, in the base of the radiolar crown. The spermathecae are epidermal structures; each ends blindly with a single opening into the surrounding water. In each spermatheca of M. aestuarina, a short duct from the narrow opening extends into the larger lumen of the ellipsoid spermathecal sac. The spermathecal cells have large nuclei and numerous dark (and electron-dense) granules. No cilia are present in any part of the spermathecae. The spermathecae are either completely empty, or contain 25-50 sperm. The spermathecae of F. stellaris are more complex than those of M. aestuarina and have three distinct regions. They closely resemble spermathecae previously described from another fabriciin, Parafabricia ventricingulata. The opening into each spermatheca leads ventrally into a ciliated chamber, or atrium, which extends posteriorly and laterally into the base of the radioles. The atrium terminates at the connecting piece which in turn leads to the heavily pigmented, but non-ciliated, sperm receptacle. The sperm receptacle is the most posterior region of each spermatheca and is dorsal to the connecting piece and atrium. Several hundred sperm can be found in each receptacle of F. stellaris. Comparing these spermathecae with those of other fabriciins, I conclude that sperm storage structures and mechanisms will provide useful characters in the systematics of the Fabriciinae.
3701469|Here we report the effect of food concentration on the recovery from anhydrobiosis of a bdelloid rotifer, Macrotrachela quadricornifera. Cohorts were either starved, or fed high or low concentrations of food, before being dried and their subsequent recovery rates determined. The rotifers starved for 3 d before anhydrobiosis recovered in significantly higher proportion, and those fed lower food concentration recovered better than those fed higher food concentration. In addition, starvation did not decrease the recovery of other bdelloid species (Philodina roseola and Adineta sp.1) which were either fed or starved before anhydrobiosis. These results suggest that a successful recovery from anhydrobiosis is not dependent on prior resource level supplied to the bdelloids. However, the lack of resources might not be the only factor in a successful recovery from anhydrobiosis. Observations using scanning electron microscopy of fed individuals of M. quadricornifera entering anhydrobiosis showed that some food remained in the digestive tract. Thus, we propose that the negative effect of rich food may be due to a purely mechanical effect and may be interfering with a proper folding of the rotifer body at the onset of anhydrobiosis. This contribution results from studies carried out in preparation for biological experiments scheduled on the International Space Station (ISS).
10.2307/3227022| The ascidian Protostyela longicauda broods larvae that have a unique, non-locomotory tail. In hatched larvae, the tail is a simple strand of tunic without cellular components or external fins, extremely elongated and anteriorly directed. Before hatching, the tail consists of a mass of secretory cells that release fibrillar material to the tunic. Notochord, neural tube, and muscle cells are absent, but presumptive chordal cells are found at earlier embryonic stages. The anterior part of the trunk bears three conical adhesive papillae and five pairs of ampullae, which elongate at metamorphosis. The tunic of the trunk and tail is sticky from the first moment after hatching and adheres readily to any object; the papillae make contact later. This species attaches to algal fronds in wave-swept, rocky intertidal habitats. Field observations on adult populations revealed a strongly aggregated, philopatric pattern of distribution, as well as within-patch patterns of colonization of some algal species as substrate. Restricted dispersal of short-lived larvae in these communities diminishes the risk of being swept away and is consistent with the aggregated pattern found. We suggest that, upon release of the larva, the sticky tail rapidly becomes entangled with algae, thereby allowing the papillae, oriented at about 30 to the tail, to contact the substrate and achieve permanent fixation. We therefore interpret these non-swimming larvae as facilitating philopatry. 
3227096|Free-swimming trophonts of a sessiline peritrich ciliate were discovered in plankton samples from the Rhode River, Maryland, and main-stem Chesapeake Bay. Cultures revealed that the species comprises both free trophonts that swim with their peristomial cilia and sessile trophonts that attach to substrates with a contractile, helically-twisted stalk. Trophonts with a short, rigid stalk or no definite stalk also were seen in culture. Binary fission of free-swimming trophonts usually produced a pair of trophonts attached scopula to scopula by a short, rigid stalk. These persisted for some time as distinctive, spinning doublets before their stalks broke and they separated. Binary fission of free-swimming trophonts also yielded trophont-telotroch pairs that stayed together for only a short time. Telotrochs from these pairs were presumably the source of attached trophonts. Conjugation occurred in both free and attached trophonts. Formation of microconjugants involved at least 2 successive divisions of a trophont. Possession of a helically-twisted, contractile stalk placed the peritrich in the family Vorticellidae, but its unique combination of life-cycle stages marks it as a new genus and species, Planeticovorticella finleyi. The morphology and life cycle of P. finleyi raise questions about the present classification of sessiline peritrichs and suggest that it may be at least partly artificial. Stalkless planktonic peritrichs that swim with their oral cilia as do trophonts of P. finleyi may have evolved from sessile ancestors by an alteration in the life cycle that created unstable clusters of trophonts on a single parental stalk. Free-swimming trophonts would originate from breakup of these clusters.
3227090|Bathymodiolus platifrons, a chemosynthetic mussel from cold seeps off Japan, relies for its nutrition on the productivity of methylotrophic or methanotrophic endosymbionts. High densities of bacterial symbionts appearing to be type I methanotrophs were observed in transmission electron micrographs of gill tissues. Methanol dehydrogenase activity in gill tissue from a single individual was positive compared to non-methanotrophic control samples, indicating a high potential for methanotrophy. Stable isotopic ratios of carbon in symbiont-containing gill tissue, as well as host tissues, were extremely depleted in
4621884|The spermatozoa of two species of Macrodasyida (Gastrotricha), Urodasys anorektoxys and U. acanthostylis, show an ultrastructural organization diverging from one another and from other gastrotrichs: their main peculiarity is in the absence of mitochondria. In U. anorektoxys, the acrosome is a long, twisted column inserted into the nucleus, which is basally cylindrical, and the flagellum shows rows of peculiar, large globules parallel to the axonemal doublets. In U. acanthostylis, the acrosome is completely cork-screwed and surrounds the nucleus, and the tail shows columnar accessory fibers. At present, the absence of mitochondria in the mature sperm, and the peculiar fingerprint aspect of condensed chromatin are the only traits shared by the two species. The features of the spermatozoa of these two species of Urodasys widen the range of different models of gastrotrich spermatozoa, and place the genus in a peculiar position, from the spermatological point of view, within the Macrodasyida. The loss of mitochondria in mature spermatozoa is possibly related to either the dysoxic habitat of the two species or a peculiar fertilization mechanism.
10.2307/3226851|The arrangement of muscle and connective tissue fibers in the columellar muscle of three prosobranch gastropods, Calliostoma euglyptum, Littorina littorea, and Ilyanassa obsoleta, was analyzed. The columellar muscle in the three snails is a flat, sheet-like muscle that originates on the columella of the shell and inserts on the operculum. The muscle was found to comprise a densely packed three-dimensional array of muscular and connective tissue fibers, supporting the hypotheses of previous authors that it functions as a muscular hydrostat. The fiber arrangement is not uniform throughout the entire muscle; instead it includes three regions that grade into one another. Nearest its origin, the muscle consists primarily of longitudinal muscle fibers with few dorsoventral or transverse fibers, and no oblique fibers. The middle portion of the columellar muscle in the region posterior to the head consists of longitudinal, dorsoventral, and transverse fibers wrapped by two opposed layers of oblique fibers. The third region of the columellar muscle extends through the foot and includes longitudinal, transverse, and dorsoventral fibers with a layer of oblique fibers on the dorsal surface. A narrow band of spherical spaces divides the columellar muscle into dorsal and ventral halves in this region. The morphological zonation within the muscle suggests that different regions perform different functions. In addition, compared to a muscle that is circular in cross section, the elliptical crosssectional shape may increase the muscular force necessary to twist the foot relative to the shell and may decrease the resistance to buckling.
10.2307/3226954|The introvert of Priapulopsis australis and P. bicaudatus was investigated by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The scalids, clustered normally in groups of 5 and arranged in 25 longitudinal rows, differ slightly between the two species. All scalids are sensilla containing three kinds of bipolar sensory cells with apical cilia. The cilia of one cell type reach the surface through cuticular tubules. The cilia of the other two receptor cell types are surrounded by 7 stereovilli and lie entirely beneath the cuticle. What previously was considered to be the first ring of pharyngeal teeth in P. australis may be seen by scanning electron microscopy to be a series of 10 conical sensilla. This condition may be derived by reduction from 5 pairs of teeth as found in P. bicaudatus. In turn, each pair of first-ring pharyngeal teeth in P. bicaudatus may have arisen by reduction of the median cusp of each of the 5 teeth in an ancestor, leaving two halves.
40206237|Decorator crabs (Brachyura: Majoidea) are known for attaching sessile organisms to specialized velcro-like hooked setae. Here we describe behavioral and morphological aspects of decorating for a common northern Pacific majoid, Oregonia gracilis. Members of O. gracilis decorate with a diverse array of sessile organisms. These are attached to hooked setae, and also physically interact with long, pappose setae that occur in the same body regions as hooked setae. We describe these pappose setae and document the occurrence of similar setae in 36 other decorating majoids across seven families. In O. gracilis , the density of pappose and hooked setae independently covary with decoration amount, which is sexually dimorphicjuveniles and adult females decorate heavily, whereas adult males decorate sparsely. Adult males have reduced numbers of hooked and pappose setae, but the ontogenetic patterns for the two setal types are different, suggesting that they are quasi-independent characters. We experimentally ablated pappose setae to ask if they functionally contribute to decorating in O. gracilis. Surprisingly, we found that pappose setae are not necessary for decorating under laboratory conditions. Pappose setae could play an auxiliary mechanical role or a sensory role in decorating, or may have another as-yet-unidentified function distinct from decorating.
23016668|The intertidal hoplonemertean Prosorhochmus americanus is a common inhabitant of the fouling community of rock jetties of the southeast coast of the United States. We undertook a laboratory investigation of the feeding rate of this nemertean, which is a suctorial predator of amphipod crustaceans that co-occur in abundance in the fouling community. While submerged in water (simulating high tide), worms fed on the tube-building amphipods Jassa falcata and Corophium cf. insidiosum at rates of 0.19 amphipods nemertean<sup>1</sup> d<sup>1</sup> (n = 10) and 0.26 amphipods nemertean<sup>1</sup> d<sup>1</sup> (n = 14), respectively. These predation rates were not significantly different (two-tailed t-test, p>0.05), and are similar to those estimated in laboratory studies of other suctorial nemerteans. Many nemerteans are typically more active at night, and indeed, adults of P. americanus consumed more individuals of J. falcata during dark periods than during light periods (<sup>2</sup> analysis, p<0.05). However, no difference in consumption of individuals of C. cf. insidiosum was observed in dark versus light. We attribute these contrasting results to differences in tube-building behavior exhibited by these two species of amphipod under laboratory conditions. Our results and those of other laboratory investigations suggest that nemerteans that prey on amphipods feed at a rate of 0.2 prey items nemertean<sup>1</sup> d<sup>1</sup>, but under natural conditions this rate may not be obtained because of limited feeding time, longer foraging distances, and emigration of prey from regions of high nemertean activity.
10.2307/3226913|The entire headfoot (HF) of small snails, Biomphalaria glabrata, was implanted into the hemocoel of allogeneic adults and examined histologically at 30 and 60 days postimplantation (DPI). Although displaying varying degrees of abnormal morphology, the HF allografts continued feeding motions with the buccal mass and showed muscular contractions of the foot muscle. The transected esophagus fused shut and became distended with amorphous material, possibly ingested and/or secreted substances. The buccal mass grew, and pieces of the exfoliated radular ribbon were found in the esophageal sac. Although most major structures of the HF appeared quite normal at the cell and tissue level, the tentacles and epithelium covering the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the HF apparently were lost when in direct contact with the recipient's hemolymph, but persisted if folded or invaginated below the implant surface. No host hemocytic response was observed at either 30 or 60 DPI. These results demonstrate not only considerable physiological plasticity by the implant but also immunological tolerance to histologically complex allografts by the recipient, and support the hypothesis that allorecognition is poorly developed in molluscs.
3227222|Recent investigations into chaetogenesis of certain types of annelid setae provide important results for unravelling the phylogenetic relationships within several taxa of polychaetous annelids. This paper presents data on ultrastructure and development of 2 types of orbiniid setae. The analysis of the crenulate capillaries in Orbinia latreillii reveals a formation process which clearly differs from the development of Equisetum-like setae of lingulid brachiopods. For the investigation of forked setae, which up to now have been neglected in the discussion on the phylogenetic significance of annelid setae, notopodial setal sacs of O. latreillii and O. bioreti were studied by light- and electron microscopy. In the setal sacs, stages of forked setae are restricted to a dorsocaudal pouch, which represents the site of setal formation. The 2 diverging, stout tines of the fork bear spines on their inner margins, each of which is preformed by a single microvillus. After retraction of the microvilli, a characteristic pattern of the setal canals inside of the spines remains. The present study belongs to a series of comparative studies into chaetogenesis of forked setae. These special setae are also found in other orbiniid taxa as well as some paraonids, scalibregmatids, and nephtyids. Ultrastructural investigations into the development of these forked setae might suggest homology.
3701513| The highly modified development of the brittle star Amphiodia occidentalis is described from post-fertilization to the juvenile stage. Fertilized eggs are negatively buoyant, ~190 m in diameter, surrounded by a thick hyaline layer and a tough fertilization envelope. After gastrulation, embryos flatten into a bilaterally symmetrical disk with a U-shaped ridge surrounding an indented stomodeum on the oral surface. Internally, a ring of ~22 calcitic ossicles grows at the edge of the disk. Vestigial ophiopluteal structures such as a ciliated band, paired larval spicules, or larval arms are not expressed during development. Although the fertilization envelope disintegrates on day 3, developmental stages remain immotile for five more days until they move with podia. At hatching, five hydrocoelic lobes are evident on the left side of the post-gastrula, and these migrate clockwise around the stomodeum, establishing pentamerous radial symmetry. Central and radial plates originate on the right side and migrate to a dorsocentral location as pentamerous symmetry is established. Development of the juvenile oral skeletal frame follows closely that described by Hendler (1978) for Amphioplus abditus except that A. occidentalis did not form buccal scales. The juvenile mouth opened by day 12. Fifty-five days after fertilization, juveniles had not added their first arm segments, although the first lateral arm plates had appeared. Developmental stages identical to those described here have been found in plankton tows taken in Oregon usually after storms that bring high waves. The unusual development of this species probably occurs in both benthic and pelagic environments. 
3227256|We describe the morphology and ultrastructure of the free-swimming larvae of the sponge Crambe crambe, one of the most abundant encrusting sponges on shallow rocky bottoms of the western Mediterranean. Larvae of C. crambe are released in July and August. The larva is uniformly flagellated except at the posterior zone. Flagellated cells are extraordinarily slender, elongate, and sinuous and form a pseudo-stratified layer. Their distal zone contains abundant mitochondria, some small vesicles, a Golgi complex, and the basal apparatus of the flagellum. Abundant lipid droplets are present throughout the cell. The nucleus is most often in a basal position. The flagellum projects from the bottom of an asymmetrical socket formed by cytoplasmic expansions. The basal body extends in a conical tuft and a laminar rootlet in close association with the Golgi system. The cells at the posterior pole are flat and polygonal on the surface, with long overlapping pseudopodia in the typical shape of a pinacoderm. Sparse collagen is present throughout the whole larva including the flagellated layer. Archeocytes and sclerocytes are abundant in the posterior region. Typical collencytes and spherulous cells seem to be absent. Intracellular and extracellular rod-like bacteria with conspicuous fimbria occur exclusively in the posterior region of the larva. The asymmetrical cytoplasmic prolongations, which surround the flagellum, and the basal apparatus of the flagellum are suggested as the sites of stimulus reception and triggering of locomotor responses, respectively. This ultrastructural study of the larva of C. crambe has shown features directly linked to its behavior and ecology.
40981224|Plasticity in hatching can balance risks of benthic and pelagic development and thereby affect the extent of larval dispersal. Veligers of the nudibranch Phestilla sibogae hatched from their individual capsules if the encapsulated embryos were scattered from a torn gelatinous egg ribbon. Hatching occurred as early as day 4 at 2325C. The early hatchlings lacked a propodium, swam, and were not yet competent to settle and metamorphose. Hatching may be induced by predation: crabs consumed egg ribbons, and a portunid crab, caught in the act of tearing an egg ribbon, scattered encapsulated embryos. Undisturbed egg masses hatched as late as 9-11 d at 2325C, or as early as 8 d in a trial at 26C. Late hatchlings had a well-developed propodium, and 20 100% metamorphosed within a day of exposure to the inducer from the nudibranch's coral prey. A few metamorphosed nudibranchs were found within hatching egg masses. Thus, the veligers can hatch so late that many are competent to metamorphose or so early that the obligate planktonic period can last 4 or more days. An attack by a predator means the benthic habitat is dangerous for the embryos, and swimming is presumably the safer option. In the absence of disturbance, the veligers hatch when ready or nearly ready to settle.
3227236|The aeolid nudibranch Aeolidia papillosa is an important predator on the sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima, a host to two kinds of endosymbiotic algae: zooxanthellae and zoochlorellae. The possible influence of the algae on the nudibranch's predatory response to this anemone was examined in a laboratory study. In chemosensory experiments, the nudibranch detected and chose anemone scent over a seawater control, but in both chemosensory and feeding experiments showed no preference for zooxanthellate or zoochlorellate anemones. Ingestive conditioning on zooxanthellate or zoochlorellate anemones had no effect on choice of these two anemone types in chemosensory experiments. Comparisons of the productivity and photosynthetic pigments of algae obtained from nudibranch feces and from anemones show that both algae survive passage through the nudibranch gut. The productivity of fecal zooxanthellae was 1.6x greater than that of zooxanthellae freshly isolated from anemones, although the chlorophyll a content of fecal zooxanthellae was reduced. The productivity and amount of pigments were the same for zoochlorellae in nudibranch feces and freshly isolated from anemones. Comparing fecal and isolated algae, there was no significant difference in the percentage of zooxanthellae in the process of cell division. However, the percentage of dividing cells was 2.6x higher in fecal than in freshly isolated zoochlorellae (18% and 6.9% respectively). Although the endosymbiotic algae do not make their host more or less attractive to the nudibranch, this predator may play an important role in maintaining the symbiotic relationship of Anthopleura elegantissima with zooxanthellae and zoochlorellae by providing viable algae in its feces as a source for the anemone host.
3227074|Induction of metamorphosis in larvae of the marine bryozoan Bugula stolonifera was examined for potential roles of G protein-linked cell-surface receptors. Two compounds that modulate components of the G protein system were tested in a bath-applied experimental design over concentrations of 10
4621903|Waitkera waitakerensis occupies lowland forests of New Zealand's North Island, where temperatures decrease in a southwestward direction. The mean annual temperatures of 18 collecting sites, as extracted from GIS data, are directly related to the first femur length of adult females. Neither site elevation nor phylogeny affected spider size or other variables examined. The direct relationship between spider body size and environmental temperature followed a pattern observed in other terrestrial arthropods with a univoltine life cycle and can probably be explained by the longer growing season of warmer regions. Egg diameter was uniform across the species. Site temperature and female first femur length were each directly related to the number of eggs deposited in egg sacs. The date of egg sac collection was inversely related to egg number, suggesting that clutch size declines during the reproductive season. Females deposit eggs beneath a triangular platform and then cover them with a lower silk sheet. The area of this upper platform and the volume of the egg sac were each directly related to egg number, but not to female first femur length. The depth of the lower covering was not related to egg number or to spider first femur length. This suggests that spiders use information about the volume of eggs in their abdomens to construct an egg sac whose volume will accommodate the vol of eggs to be laid and that females do so principally by adjusting the size of the sac's upper triangular platform.
10.2307/3227010|The tunic morphology of the tropical ascidian Phallusia nigra was studied with regard to its protective functions by means of light and electron microscopy. The tunic has a smooth surface free of epibionts. Beneath the tunic surface, phagocytic cells containing pigment granules (pigmentary tunic phagocytes) are densely distributed and form the pigmentary layer. These pigments may protect the body from irradiation. When poorly pigmented specimens growing in a dim location are transplanted to a bright location, pigmentation is induced and the tunic becomes black. In this process, tunic phagocytes probably produce pigment granules and migrate to the pigmentary layer. The tunic under the pigmentary layer is packed with highly vacuolated cells (tunic bladder cells). Vital staining with LysoSensor, a fluorescent pH indicator, demonstrated that the vacuoles contain strong acid. Acidic fluid leaks out when the tunic is injured. Leaking acid could serve to disinfect the injured area, be an irritant to potential predators, and/or be involved in anti-fouling.
40206185|Polyclad flatworms are acoelomate bilaterians found in benthic communities worldwide, predominantly in marine environments. Current polyclad systematics is unstable, with two non-concordant classification schemes resulting in a poor understanding of within-group relationships. Here we present the first phylogenetic framework for the suborder Cotylea using a morphological matrix. Representatives of 34 genera distributed among all cotylean families (except four, excluded due to their dubious taxonomic status) were investigated. The number of families included ranges from a conservative eight to a revisionary 11. Outgroup analysis indicated that the suborder is monophyletic and defined by the presence of a ventral adhesive structure, a short posteriorly positioned vagina, and cement glands. Of the eight to 11 families included, we confirmed that three were monophyletic: Boniniidae, Prosthiostomidae, and Pseudocerotidae. Boniniidae was consistently recovered as the sister group to other Cotylea, based on the retention of the plesiomorphic Lang's vesicle. The clade consisting of Anonymus, Marcusia, and Pericelis is sister to the Boniniidae and the rest of the Cotylea. Above this clade there is little resolution at the base of the sister group. The Euryleptidae are found to be paraphyletic and give rise to the Pseudocerotidae. Neither classification scheme received unequivocal support. The intrafamilial relationships of the diverse Pseudocerotidae and Euryleptidae were examined. Color pattern characters (used for species identification) were highly homoplasious but increased cladogram resolution within genera. The monophyly of seven genera within the Pseudocerotidae and Euryleptidae was not supported and many genera showed no autapomorphies, highlighting the need for taxonomic revision of these families.
40663866|Sponges can serve as hosts to invertebrate assemblages that live and reproduce within them. Sponges also constitute a major part of the benthic epifaunal community on the continental shelf of the southeastern United States; however, little is known about these sponges and the assemblages they harbor. In this study, the associated fauna from a variety of sponges and one species of tunicate collected by submersible from the continental shelf and slope of the southeastern United States at depths in the range 18-875 m were examined. Seventeen sponges, comprising eight species (Ircinia Topsentia sp., Geodia sp., Characella sp., Erylus sp., Apylsina archeri, Cliona sp., and Pheronema carpenteri), and three tunicate colonies (Didemnidae) were fully dissected and all associated organisms were identified and counted. Additionally, the sponges Pheronema annae (951m) and P. carpenteri (770 m) represent new records for the region. The diversity (H') and density of associates varied considerably among hosts; the densities of associates ranged 0.4-11,684 per 1 L of host volume. Polychaete worms were the most common organisms found, with one species, Haplosyllis spongicola, being especially abundant in I. campana, Topsentia sp., and Cliona sp. The amphipods Ericthonius punctatus and Leucothoe cf. spinicarpa, as well as decapods such as snapping shrimp (Synalpheus sp.) and crabs (e.g., Pilumnus floridana, Micropanope urinator), were also common. The number of symbiont taxa did not significantly increase as the sponge size increased. However, weak positive trends were found between the diversity of associates and increasing canal diameter. Sponges and tunicates were judged to represent legitimate ecological communities harboring a complete food web as well as gravid and juvenile individuals.
3701472|The outer surfaces of the shells of living marine gastropods are often colonized by other organisms. However, only one species, the sabellid worm Terebrasabella heterouncinata, is able to settle in the aperture of living gastropods. Native to South Africa, and introduced to California, this worm is a pest of abalone aquaculture and has been a threat to native gastropods in California. We investigated the intrinsic susceptibility of 15 marine gastropods from California to this apertural fouling organism. Intrinsic susceptibility was significantly different among gastropod species. Overall, caenogastropods tended to be more resistant than were the vetigastropods and patellogastropods. This suggests that variability in susceptibility could be due to characteristics associated with closely related gastropod hosts. However, this only partially explained the variation in susceptibility to individuals of T. heterouncinata. Intrinsic susceptibility was not associated with potential host species from similar habitats. We discuss host susceptibility to T. heterouncinata, including implications for potential control of this pest species, and for understanding factors enabling this polychaete to inhabit the apertural region, an area typically free of all other epibionts.
3227211|Setae of the first segment of the marine annelid Sthenelais berkeleyi (family Sigalionidae) are arranged in the shape of an antero-dorsally directed tube. When the worm is in resting position buried in sediment, this setal tube projects slightly from the sediment surface. A current of water is drawn into it by cilia on the parapodia of the first segment. The water is then diverted to a pair of lateral spaces between the body wall and elytra, moved posteriorly in these spaces along the length of the body by segmental cilia, and eventually exits posteriorly or ventrally. This flow permits the worm to respire while remaining buried and immobile for long periods of time, waiting for prey to move over the sediment near it. Setae of the first segment are probably used as snorkels in some other infaunal sigalionids as well.
10.2307/3226839|In the Hawaiian turrid gastropod Carinapex minutissima, secretory reorganization at the boundary between the larval protoconch and the juvenile teleoconch is a gradual process, a sequence of events occurring over 5-7 days rather than an instantaneous reprogramming. I argue that such a staged sequence yields useful information not only for phylogenetic reconstruction and systematics but also for grounding the comparative study of gastropod metamorphosis and life-history evolution. Secretion of juvenile shell follows a retreat of the mantle, so that the first material is deposited beneath the surface of the protoconch rather than at its margin. Growth continues by advance and retreat of the mantle, resulting in progressive imbricate thickening of the shell. The two velar notches fill sequentially. The anterior siphonal canal elongates before accretionary growth begins along the outer lip and before juvenile lip shape and juvenile ornamentation are established. The velum is lost through a combination of gradual disintegration and resorption during the period of secretory reorganization. The larval and early juvenile shells of other gastropods record many kinds of change. Sculptural zonation is common and provides indirect evidence of sequential reprogramming. Additional studies of larvae in culture are required to provide direct evidence and to establish the comparative data base for phylogenetic analysis.
3701453|The role of houseflies as agents in the spread of bacterial diseases has been thoroughly investigated, yet the fate of bacteria ingested by flies has not. We examined the physical location of the bacterial enteropathogen Aeromonas caviae in the midgut of laboratory-reared adult houseflies. Food ingested by houseflies was separated from the midgut epithelium by a double-layered peritrophic matrix (PM). The inner PM intimately enveloped the food as fecal pellets (food boluses), while the outer PM appeared as a long continuous tube. In flies fed a suspension of A. caviae, live bacteria were not observed within the inner PM, but were compartmentalized between folds of the PM in the inter-PM space. Similar observations were made for flies fed a suspension of Serratia liquefaciens and for highly contaminated feral flies. Isolates of both A. caviae and S. liquefaciens were chitinolytic (as demonstrated by clearing zones on chitin agar), but the potential role of bacterial enzymes in the alteration of PM morphology or formation needs further investigation.
10.2307/3226920|Recent observations, from a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) working in the Monterey Submarine Canyon in the northeast Pacific and from the Johnson Sea Link II in the northwest Atlantic, revealed the presence of the trachymedusa Benthocodon pedunculata near the bottom in both oceans. Although feeding was not observed in the field or in the lab, gut contents indicate a preponderance of benthopelagic crustaceans although a wide variety of zooplankton have been found. Two morphologically different tentacle types both possess cnidae with a 3:1 ratio of euryteles to stenoteles. Unencysted metacercariae of a trematode parasite were found in the manubrium of more than half the medusae examined.
4124895| The male reproductive system of the caterpillar-hunting wasp Ancistrocerus antilope was composed of the testes, seminal vesicles, accessory glands, the penis, and the connecting ducts. The testes, which were paired structures lined with a thin layer of squamous epithelium, were composed of several lobes that contain developing spermatozoa. These spermatozoa began as spermatocytes in the distal portion of the testicular lobe and, as they matured, they moved proximally toward the seminal vesicles. Upon maturation, the spermatozoa were long, thin structures with a nucleus of ~ 10-15 m in length and 1-2 m in width. Their tails, which were not morphologically distinct from their heads at the gross level, aver-aged 388 25 m in length. Once the spermatozoa had fully developed, they traveled from the testes to the seminal vesicles, where they were stored. The walls of the seminal vesicles were composed of a ciliated, pseudostratified, columnar epithelium. A layer of fibrous connective tissue termed the testicular capsule encapsulated both the testes and the seminal vesicles. Upon ejaculation, the spermatozoa moved through the deferent ducts, where they combined with granular fluid from the accessory glands. From here, they traveled via the ejaculatory duct to the penis, where they were expelled. In this study, these anatomical descriptions are discussed in reference to other species of the Hymenoptera. 
10.2307/3226975|Particle capture, transport, ingestion, and selection mechanisms used by Dipolydora commensalis, a symbiotic worm that inhabits burrows it produces in hermit crab shells, were studied in the laboratory. Worms removed from shells inhabited by Pagurus longicarpus were placed in capillary tubes for observation and video-microscopy of feeding. Particles were captured by the palps and transported to the mouth by ciliary and muscular action. Mean transport rates for cysts of Artemia from the distal ends of the palps to the mouth ranged from 0.7 to 1.3 mm/sec; those for glass beads, from 0.2 to 0.8 mm/sec. Upon reaching the mouth, particles were engulfed by the lateral lips and ingested. Worms feeding on large particles (>0.2 mm) repeatedly arched the anterior end of the body. Nauplii of Artemia were used to determine the ability of the worms to feed on small motile organisms over a 24-h period in the dark. In six trials the percentage of nauplii ingested ranged from 58% to 76%. In particle selection experiments, worms were offered uncoated glass beads and beads coated with fluid from the ribbed mussel, Geukensia demissa. In two experiments 91% and 89% of coated glass beads were ingested as compared to 15% and 4% of uncoated beads, respectively. Video-analyses of feeding sequences showed that cysts were often partially ingested and then ejected from the mouth. Uncoated beads transported along the palps often never reached the mouth. These results indicate that D. commensalis can actively select particles at the mouth and possibly during transport along the palps.
3701497| Pre-settlement events play an important role in determining larval success in marine invertebrates with bentho-pelagic life histories, yet the consequences of these events typically are not well understood. The purpose of this study was to examine the pre-settlement impacts of different seawater temperatures on the size and population density of dinoflagellate symbionts in brooded larvae of the Caribbean coral Porites astreoides. Larvae were collected from P. astreoides at 14-20 m depth on Conch Reef (Florida) in June 2002, and incubated for 24 h at 15 temperatures spanning the range 25.1-30.0C in mean increments of 0.40.1C ( SD). The most striking feature of the larval responses was the magnitude of change in both parameters across this 5C temperature range within 24 h. In general, larvae were largest and had the highest population densities of Symbiodinium sp. between 26.4-27.7C, and were smallest and had the lowest population densities at 25.8C and 28.8C. Larval size and symbiont population density were elevated slightly (relative to the minimal values) at the temperature extremes of 25.1C and 30C. These data demonstrate that coral larvae are highly sensitive to seawater temperature during their pelagic phase, and respond through changes in size and the population densities of Symbiodinium sp. to ecologically relevant temperature signals within 24 h. The extent to which these changes are biologically meaningful will depend on the duration and frequency of exposure of coral larvae to spatio-temporal variability in seawater temperature, and whether the responses have cascading effects on larval success and their entry to the post-settlement and recruitment phase. 
25623060|Since the 18th century, the medicinal leech Hirudo medicinalis has been thought to comprise a single species with several different color morphs, but recently some of these color morphs have been assigned to separate species based on morphology, geographical distribution, and molecular sequence data. This research was aimed at testing the ability of three of these species, H. medicinalis, Hirudo verbana, and Hirudo orientalis, to interbreed. We found that in the laboratory, all three species were able to mate with each other and produce hybrid offspring. This suggests that the reproductive isolation is not strong among these species of the genus Hirudo. However, fewer offspring were produced from interspecific crosses compared with intraspecific crosses. This decrease of fecundity (and in some cases, offspring viability) indicates some degree of reproductive isolation between H. medicinalis, H. verbana, and H. orientalis.
40206249|The phylogenetic relationships within the Order Aplousobranchiata (Ascidiacea) are largely unexplored. In this work, we study the phylogenetic status of the genera Clavelina and Pycnoclavella. Traditionally, both genera had been included in the family Clavelinidae, until the new family Pycnoclavellidae was defined, removing the genus Pycnoclavella from Clavelinidae. Not all authors accept the validity of Clavelina and Pycnoclavella as distinct genera, let alone their belonging to different families. In addition, the assignment of species to these genera, as well as to the genus Archidistoma, has been controversial. We analyzed sequences of the mitochondrial gene cytochrome c oxidase subunit I belonging to ten species of Pycnoclavella (including several formerly assigned to Archidistoma and Clavelina), 11 species of Clavelinidae, and ten species of other aplousobranch genera belonging to seven families, plus two outgroups. Two different tree construction methods (maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference) showed similar results. Pycnoclavella and Clavelina appeared in distinct clades but formed a monophyletic group relative to representatives of the main families of the order Aplousobranchiata. Our phylogenetic results indicate that both genera are valid but should be included within a single family, with the name Clavelinidae having precedence. The monotypic clavelinid genus Nephtheis branches in our trees within the clade of the genus Clavelina. Our results also confirm that some forms assigned to Archidistoma and Clavelina have been misplaced and belong to the genus Pycnoclavella. Pycnoclavella martae n. sp. is described.
10.2307/3226993|Endobionts associated with the coral reef sponge Theonella swinhoei (Lithistida, Demospongiae), from the Red Sea and Indian Ocean, were characterized through histological and ultrastructural investigations. Prokaryotes included unicellular heterotrophic bacteria (mean concentration, 20% of the sponge tissue), unicellular cyanobacteria (Aphanocapsa feldmanni, 15% of the sponge tissue), and non-photosynthetic filamentous forms, probably in the Beggiatoa-group (sulfur bacteria, family Beggiatoaceae, 40% of the sponge tissue). Evidence of ingestion of small pieces of filamentous bacteria by sponge cells was observed. The worm Haplosyllis spongicola (Syllidae, Polychaeta) inhabited the canals of the sponge aquiferous system (mean density, 73 worms/cm
10.2307/3226958|A new species of the ascidian genus Bathypera (Ascidiacea: Pyuridae), B. feminalba, is described from deep-water habitats of Saanich Inlet and Barkley Sound, British Columbia, Canada, with data on the depth distribution, substratum use, reproduction, embryology, and larval development. The species is characterized by hourglass-shaped spicules topped with a single large spine and several smaller spines, a branchial sac with 7 folds per side, and irregular and curved stigmata. B. feminalba spawned in response to light following dark adaptation during the month of June. Development was similar to that of other pyurids. The tadpole larva, the first to be described in this genus, has the same sensory organs found in shallow-water relatives: an ocellus, a statocyst, and 3 large conical adhesive papillae. The ocellus is sensitive to monochromatic light between 475 and 600 nm with peak sensitivity in the blue region of the spectrum. This species occurs below 20-30 m depth, where it occupies vertical cliffs, the sides of boulders, and also smaller cobbles. It shares this habitat with a characteristic assemblage of ascidians, brachiopods, serpulid polychaetes, and sponges, few of which are found in shallow water. On a small scale, the distribution of B. feminalba is aggregated, with the pattern suggesting gregarious larval settlement. At the upper end of its depth range, this species appears to be excluded from surfaces with coralline algae; competition with algae or interactions with some organism associated with the coralline algal community may determine its upper limit.
40981234|The phylogenetic relationships among the "archaeogastropod" clades Patellogastropoda, Vetigastropoda, Neritimorpha, and Neomphalina are uncertain; the phylogenetic placement of these clades varies across different analyses, and particularly among those using morphological characteristics and those relying on molecular data. This study explores the relationships among these groups using a combined analysis with seven molecular loci (18S rRNA, 28S rRNA, histone H3, 16S rRNA, cytochrome c oxidase subunit I [COI], myosin heavy-chain type II, and elongation factor-1 [EF-1]) sequenced for 31 ingroup taxa and eight outgroup taxa. The deep evolutionary splits among these groups have made resolution of stable relationships difficult, and so EF-1 and myosin are used in an attempt to re-examine these ancient radiation events. Three phylogenetic analyses were performed utilizing all seven genes: a single-step direct optimization analysis using parsimony, and two-step approaches using parsimony and maximum likelihood. A single-step direct optimization parsimony analysis was also performed using only five molecular loci (18S rRNA, 28S rRNA, histone H3, 16S rRNA, and COI) in order to determine the utility of EF-1 and myosin in resolving deep relationships. In the likelihood and POY optimal phylogenetic analyses, Gastropoda, Caenogastropoda, Neritimorpha, Neomphalina, and Patellogastropoda were monophyletic. Additionally, Neomphalina and Pleurotomariidae fell outside the remaining vetigastropods, indicating the need for further investigation into the relationship of these groups with other gastropods.
3227180|The terrestrial polychaete Hrabeiella periglandulata has many features in common with the Clitellata and the polychaete taxon Parergodrilidae. An ultrastructural investigation of the central nervous system and the sense organs of H. periglandulata individuals was undertaken to look for structural similarities with these taxa as well as to elucidate whether these structures might exhibit adaptive characters typical of terrestrial annelids in general. The central nervous system of H. periglandulata is subepidermal and consists of a brain situated in the first achaetigerous segment. The circumoesophageal connectives are without dorsal and ventral roots, and the ventral nerve cord has closely associated connectives and ill-defined ganglia. In contrast to clitellates and the terrestrial parergodrilid Parergodrilus heideri, nuchal organs are present. They are internal and highly modified compared with those of marine polychaetes but are similar to those of the intertidal parergodrilid Stygocapitella subterranea. A pair of ciliary sense organs is present inside the brain, resembling similar structures in many microdrile oligochaetes. These observations indicate that there are, in fact, structural similarities between the nervous system and the sense organs of clitellates, parergodrilids, and Hrabeiella individuals. These similarities may very likely be the result of convergent evolution in adaptation to the terrestrial environment.
4124888| Specimens of the sponge Tethya orphei, collected in February 2005 on the underside of coral stones on Ar Athol (Maldives), have been processed for histological and ultrastructural investigations. The cortical layer of the sponge was found to be permeated by filamentous cyanobacteria, the trichomes of which measured 45-63 m on average and were composed of 10-14 cells. The fine organization of the filaments was consistent with their taxonomic identification as Oscillatoria spongeliae. These filaments filled the cortical region of the sponge and penetrated inward into the upper choanosomal region, where they sometimes overlapped the siliceous spicule bundles. A budding specimen of T. orphei showed that the filaments were also present in the single bud protruding from the sponge surface, demonstrating that asexual reproduction can vertically transmit these symbionts from sponge to sponge. The occurrence of filaments in all the specimens studied is consistent with the assumption that filamentous cyanobacteria are not mere intruders but mutualistic symbionts with members of T. orphei. 
4621900| Seasonal maturation of the gonad (hermaphrodic gland) was examined in the terrestrial slug Lehmannia valentiana in Osaka, Japan. The ratio of the gonad weight to body weight was low in June-September, rapidly increased in October, and gradually decreased thereafter. In May-September, most slugs had only spermatogonia and spermatocytes, and all slugs had mature sperms in October-April. The oocyte size increased in September and large oocytes were observed in late October-April. Under natural temperature and photo-periodic conditions in Osaka, slugs laid eggs in early November-May. Therefore, this species reproduces from late autumn to spring, in contrast to many terrestrial slugs. In January-early February, however, the number of laid eggs was small and oviposition activity showed a bimodal seasonal pattern. In contrast, the hatching pattern was unimodal and most hatching was observed in spring. After a 1-h exposure to 33C, the survival rate was 100% in juvenile slugs but 0% in eggs. Although hatching success was >85% at 15-20C, no eggs hatched when they were maintained at 25C. The heat susceptibility of eggs in this species may be one of the key factors restricting oviposition from late autumn to spring. 
3227116|The hypothesis that bioluminescence produced by larvae of the New Zealand glowworm, Arachnocampa luminosa, attracts prey was tested experimentally in Reserve Cave, Waitomo, New Zealand, and in its bush-clad entrance over a total of 200 days during winter, spring, and summer. We compared catches on transparent adhesive traps placed either over glowworms or over areas from which glowworms had been removed. Adhesive traps over glowworms caught significantly more invertebrates per trap per day than did control traps. Glowworms in bush attracted greater numbers and types of invertebrates than did glowworms in the cave. Dipters predominated in both bush (86% of the total catch) and cave (89%). Also caught were small numbers of Araneae, Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, Orthoptera, Trichoptera, Gastropoda, Acarina, and Neuroptera-listed in order of abundance-but no adults of A. luminosa were caught. Glowworms under adhesive traps survived with little or no food for up to 78 days.
41408395|The dynamics and consequences of the varied reproductive modes of marine invertebrates is a rich and vibrant field of inquiry for ecological and evolutionary studies. One mode of reproduction that is not as well-studied as others is "spermcasting" or "spermcast mating," when males broadcast sperm and females retain eggs and brood developing embryonic stages. This type of reproduction occurs in two small (maximum adult shell length ~5-6 mm) venerid bivalves, Nutricola confusa and N. tantilla, that live in protected bays of the temperate eastern Pacific. Females of these species brood developing embryos in chambers formed by the inner demibranchs, and release fully formed juveniles. We discovered that upon exposing clams to fluvoxamine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, males release spermatozeugmata, clusters of sperm cells attached by their heads to a central core. Spermatozoa of Nutricola have unusually long, needle-shaped heads that are approximately one quarter of the total length of the cell. These heads are curled and "packaged" into the hemispherical-shaped cores of spermatozeugmata. The cores are about one-third as long as the heads, and the tails protrude out of the opposite side of the cap of the core. The spermatozeugmata display two different swimming patterns, one where the tails beat in synchrony, and the other where they do not. The size of the cores is not significantly different in the two species, but spermatozeugmata of N. tantilla have significantly longer and wider tails than those of N. confusa. Advantages to spermcasting spermatozeugmata instead of individual spermatozoa may include enhanced dispersal and increased probabilities of fertilization. One consequence of spermatozeugmata (rather than individual spermatozoa) entering female brood chambers might be lowering of the effective population size. For species like these, which lack pelagic larvae, spermatozeugmata could increase dispersal and gene flow.
3701460| This histochemical and ultrastructural study describes the epidermal gland cells of a tubicolous polychaete, Branchiomma luctuosum. The histochemistry was carried out using standard techniques and FITC-labelled lectins. Four types of secretory cells were identified in two categories: orthochromatic cells (Type 1) and metachromatic cells (Types 2, 3, and 4). The secretory product of the Type-1 orthochromatic cells contains neutral glycoproteins with Gal1,3GalNAc residues. Metachromatic cells produce acidic, mainly sulfated, glycoconjugates with Gal1,3GalNAc residues (Type 2) or glucosidic and/or mannosidic residues (Types 3 and 4). In sialylated chains, terminal sialic acid is bound to the penultimate GalNAc and Gall,3GalNAc residues. The complex composition of the mucus produced by epidermal gland cells of B. luctuosum may be correlated with its different functions. Ultrastructural studies of the epidermal gland cells showed differing morphology, and the presence in the gland cells of Types 3 and 4 of a funnel-shaped structure for the extrusion of the secretory material. 
25623048|I describe an unusual case of follicular oogenesis in a bivalve, Gaimardia trapesina, a common marine bivalve from the Magellan Region and adjacent Sub-Antarctic waters, whose members brood their developing larvae. The gonad in G. trapesina is an acinus organ that infiltrates the perivisceral connective tissue; the walls of the acini are formed by tall, slender cells with distal nuclei, supported by a thin conjunctive tissue layer. At the onset of vitellogenesis, each developing oocyte becomes surrounded by a one-cell-thick layer of follicle cells, which may originate from the wall of the acinus. The cells form a follicle that completely encompasses single oocytes, except at the basal zone, where oocytes are in contact with the acinus wall. The follicle persists beyond the end of vitellogenesis and spawning. After gamete release, the persistent follicle participates in the attachment of ova and developing embryos to the interfilamental junctions of the inner and outer demibranchs of the gill, where embryos are incubated until hatching as late-stage pediveliger larvae. Ripe eggs are large ( 250 m diameter), suggesting that development is entirely lecithotrophic. The follicle cells that mediate connections between developing embryos and the maternal individual probably have a mechanical role only, providing support and possibly facilitating the accommodation of a large number of embryos to maximize the branchial space available for brooding.
40663843|The nervous system of the meiobenthic priapulid species Tubiluchus troglodytes is described by immunohistochemistry and confocal laser scanning microscopy. The brain is circumpharyngeal, consisting of a central ring of neuropil and both anterior and posterior somata. From the brain emerges a ventral nerve cord, which shows ganglion-like swellings in the neck and caudal region. The introvert includes longitudinal neurite bundles running below and between the rows of scalids, with a small cluster of sensory cells under each scalid. In the body wall of the neck and trunk region, longitudinal and circular neurite bundles are present in an orthogonal pattern. The tail is innervated from the caudal swelling of the ventral nerve cord; it also includes longitudinal and circular bundles in an orthogonal pattern. The pharynx has a reticulated system of neurite bundles running between the pharyngeal teeth and fimbrillae. Below each tooth and fimbrilus is a ganglion-like cluster of somata. The intestine is surrounded by a nerve net. The data on the nervous system are compared within other priapulids and with other species of Scalidophora (Kinorhyncha and Loricifera).
10.2307/3226939|The ultrafiltration barrier of Mytilus edulis, Chlamys hastata, and Mercenaria mercenaria was studied (1) to resolve whether the basal lamina or the substructure of the ultrafiltration slits (slit diaphragm) is the principal filter and (2) to address the question of permselective behavior of the ultrafiltration barrier. The ultrafiltration slits in M. edulis are 15-22 nm wide. In grazing sections of the filtration barrier, projections from adjoining pedicels protrude into the ultrafiltration slits. These projections have a periodicity of about 20 nm and occur in both staggered and opposing patterns. However, considerable variability characterizes the organization of the slit diaphragm. Tracer experiments (mostly in Chlamys hastata and Mercenaria mercenaria) revealed that horseradish peroxidase (HRP, 40 kDa) is passed through the ultrafiltration barrier; colloidal gold (16 nm) and native ferritin (400 kDa), on the other hand, are retained at the level of the basal lamina. In addition, the distribution of HRP indicates that podocyte and pedicel surfaces are negatively charged. Highly anionic sites in the basal lamina were detected with ruthenium red. We conclude that (1) the basal lamina is the principal filter, and (2) the cutoff range for ultrafiltration is larger than 40 but smaller than 400 kDa. We hypothesize that the negative charges are important in filtration barrier function and maintenance. Finally, comparing bivalve ultrafiltration and mammalian glomerular filtration, we conclude that they share important characteristics: the basal lamina/basement membrane is the principal ultrafiltration barrier and the basal lamina/basement membrane and podocyte/pedicel surfaces are negatively charged.
3701450|Leeches are common terrestrial and aquatic annelids, parasitizing or feeding on a wide range of host taxa. Here we report evidence for an unusual feeding behavior of egg-feeding in the piscicolid leech Cystobranchus virginicus. We identified distended specimens of C. virginicus in the nests of at least 4 different fish species: Campostoma anomalum, Moxostoma carinatum, Moxostoma sp. (either M. anisurum and/or M. breviceps), and Nocomis leptocephalus. We collected a total of 41 leeches from the nests of these host species and documented at least 1 leech in 19 of 55 nests (35%), with many sites containing multiple leeches. Individuals of C. virginicus were not identified feeding on any of the 41 adult specimens of Moxostoma spp. or the 635 adult specimens of Nocomis leptocephalus examined, and were never found in the absence of active host spawning (26 sites). These results are consistent with individuals of C. virginicus being an opportunistic or possibly even an obligate egg-feeder, potentially timing their own reproductive activities with the spawning of their fish hosts. The current distribution of C. virginicus has been expanded to include North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. The potential for leech species to induce mortality in developing fish eggs could be a concern for fish conservation and merits further investigation.
3227206|Examination of the living bathyal feather star, Atelecrinus, using light and scanning electron microscopy reveals a series of morphological features, some apparently unique within the Crinoidea, which forces a reassessment of the relationship of the genus to other living feather stars. In the cavernous centrodorsal cavity, interradial buttresses end with a shallow oral concavity or deep pit. Two adjacent axils each bear a large distolateral calcareous process of unknown function that resembles a shoe with a deeply ridged sole. These processes project into the visceral mass with their "soles" apposed-the only known case among living crinoids in which a skeletal feature appears asymmetrically on two of five rays. Articular facets of distal brachials bear one distally-projecting, distal muscular fossa that overlaps a recumbent muscular fossa on the succeeding ossicle. Apposed projecting and recumbent fossae alternate sides on successive ossicles. The arm terminates in a long filament that lacks pinnules. Finally, modified ambulacral lappets resembling sessile pedicellariae but unsupported by skeletal plates flank the ambulacral grooves along the middle and proximal arms. Two of the four genera in the Atelecrinidae, extant monotypic Sibogacrinus anomalus and Cretaceous Jaekelometra, are removed from the family and treated as incertae sedis. Unique cirrus sockets are found in Atelecrinus and Atopocrinus sibogae (the only other remaining atelecrinid); members of Atopocrinus share unique ray morphology with those of the Pentametrocrinidae, and uniquely modified distal brachials are shared by individuals of Atelecrinus and Pentametrocrinus varians. However, the relationship of Atelecrinus to other feather stars remains unclear. The genus may represent a highly derived, paedomorphic comatulid as suggested by its unmetamorphosed basal ring and lack of proximal pinnules, or a non-comatulid distinguished by its cirrus sockets, skeletal processes and pedicellaria-like features. Robust answers require fresh material suitable for ultrastructural and molecular analyses.
10.2307/3227031|The supportive tissue in the gills of three species of freshwater bivalves (Corbicula fluminea, Dreissena polymorpha, and Toxolasma texasensis) is composed of a similar extracellular matrix with interspersed muscle fibers. These matrices consist of a periodic acid Schiffpositive tissue supported by small collagen fibrils as determined by morphological and biochemical examination. The periodicity observed in fibrils and the electrophoretic migration patterns are consistent with other collagens. The ultrastructure of the muscle fibers associated with the connective tissue corresponds with a known type of smooth muscle. The high degree of similarity between the tissues of these species suggests a similar, conserved function.
4124889|The alcyonacean soft coral genera Sarcophyton and Lobophytum are conspicuous, ecologically important members of shallow reef communities throughout the Indo-West Pacific. Study of their ecology is, however, hindered by incomplete knowledge of their taxonomy: most species cannot be identified in the field and the two genera cannot always be distinguished reliably. We used a 735-bp fragment of the octocoral-specific mitochondrial protein-coding gene msh1 to construct a phylogeny for 92 specimens identified to 19 species of Lobophytum and 16 species of Sarcophyton. All phylogenetic methods used recovered a tree with three strongly supported clades. One clade included only morphologically typical Sarcophyton species with a stalk distinct from the polypary, poorly formed club-shaped sclerites in the colony surface, and large spindles in the interior of the stalk. A second clade included only morphologically typical Lobophytum colonies with lobes and ridges on the colony surface, poorly formed clubs in the colony surface, and interior sclerites consisting of oval forms with regular girdles of ornamental warts. The third distinct clade included a mix of Sarcophyton and Lobophytum nominal species with intermediate morphologies. Most of the species in this mixed clade had a polypary that was not distinct from the stalk, and the sclerites in the colony surface were clubs with well-defined heads. Within the Sarcophyton clade, specimens identified as Sarcophyton glaucum belonged to six very distinct genetic sub-clades, suggesting that this morphologically heterogeneous species is actually a cryptic species complex. Our results highlight the need for a complete taxonomic revision of these genera, using molecular data to help confirm species boundaries as well as to guide higher taxonomic decisions.
40206243|The ribbon-shaped salivary glands in Bulla striata were studied with light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Secretion is produced in tubules formed by two types of secretory cells, namely granular mucocytes and vacuolated cells, intercalated with ciliated cells. A central longitudinal duct lined by the same cell types collects the secretion and conducts it to the buccal cavity. In granular mucocytes, the nucleus is usually central and the secretory vesicles contain oval-shaped granular masses attached to the vesicle membrane. Glycogen granules can be very abundant, filling the space around the secretory vesicles. These cells are strongly stained by PAS reaction for polysaccharides. Their secretory vesicles are also stained by Alcian blue, revealing acidic mucopolysaccharides, and the tetrazonium reaction detects proteins in minute spots at the edge of the vesicles, corresponding to the granular masses observed in TEM. Colloidal iron staining for acidic mucopolysaccharides in TEM reveals iron particles in the electron-lucent region of the vesicles, while the granular masses are free of particles. In vacuolated cells, which are thinner and less abundant than the granular mucocytes, the nucleus is basal and the cytoplasm contains large electron-lucent vesicles. These vesicles are very weakly colored by light microscopy techniques, but colloidal iron particles could be observed within them. The golf tee-shaped ciliated cells contain some electron-dense lysosomes in the apical region. In these cells, the elongated nucleus is subapically located, and bundles of microfibrils are common in the slender cytoplasmic stalk that reaches the basal lamina. The morphological, histochemical, and cytochemical data showed some similarities between salivary glands in B. striata and Aplysia depilans. These similarities could reflect the phylogenetic relationship between cephalaspidean and anaspidean opisthobranchs or result from a convergent adaptation to an identical herbivorous diet.
3227128|Antibodies against the echinoderm-specific neuropeptide S1 and against 5HT were used to examine the fate of the larval nervous system during metamorphosis in the ophiuroid Ophiactis resiliens. In contrast to most echinoderms, the onset of peptidergic and serotonergic expression was delayed to the advanced ophiopluteus stage, in particular for 5HT. In advanced ophioplutei, peptidergic immunoreactivity was located in simple fibres associated with the ciliated bands, a stomach nerve ring, and cells along the antero-lateral arms. 5HT immunoreactivity was concentrated in 2 oral ganglia in the adoral projections, located at the posterior rim of the mouth. Clusters of 5HT-positive cells were also found along the antero-lateral arms. The ophiopluteus lacked a serotonergic (or peptidergic) anterior ganglion. In echinoids, holothuroids, and crinoids, anterior ganglia are thought to have a sensory role in settlement and metamorphosis. Given that ophioplutei metamorphose in the plankton and that larval structures degenerate before settlement, the absence of apical ganglia correlates with the lack of a functional role for larval structures in substrate selection and settlement. Although most of the larval nervous system degenerated during metamorphosis, the adoral projections and associated oral ganglia appeared to be incorporated into the juvenile mouth, suggesting a potential role for larval neurons in contributing to oral neuronal structures in the adult. S1-positive neurons and fibres in the rudiment developed de novo and in parallel with development of the epineural canal. This structure gives rise to the primordia of the adult circumoral nerve ring and radial nerves, indicating that differentiation of the adult nervous system begins in the early stages of metamorphosis.
10.2307/3226884|In considering the evolutionary relationship of Comesomatidae with Monhysterida versus Chromadorida, we adopt the hypothesis that Comesomatidae has its closest evolutionary affinity with members of Chromadorida. We conclude that mushroom-shaped and rod-like intracuticular punctations are character states of the same structure, and that the punctations in members of Comesomatidae are homologous with those in members of Achromadoridae, Cyatholaimidae, Ethmolaimidae, and Selachinematidae. We compare and contrast the appearance of multispiral amphids as seen with LM and SEM. In describing two new species of Comesomatidae, Hopperia hexadentata n. sp. and Cervonema deltensis n. sp., we document the presence of punctations for Cervonema deltensis n. sp. and discuss evidence for their occurrence among other members of the genus. We provide diagnoses for Comesomatidae, Dorylaimopsinae, Sabatieriinae, Hopperia, and Cervonema, and keys to the species of Hopperia and Cervonema, and we transfer Minolaimus from Cyatholaimidae to Sabatieriinae (Comesomatidae). We present evidence for sperm dimorphism in Cervonema deltensis n. sp. and review its occurrence among other marine nematodes.
10.2307/3226843|Elevation of the K
10.2307/3226961|Mona Island, a small uninhabited Caribbean island between Puerto Rico and Hispaniola, was surveyed for freshwater platyhelminths. Rainwater pools on the island's plateau produced two species of Typhloplanidae, a species close to Mesostoma georgianum and a new species of Mesostoma, M. tubiseminalis, herein described. The new species is diagnosed by the presence of a tubular receptaculum seminis that forms a distinct bifurcation of the female tract. Pools inhabited by both species are subject to high pH, high temperatures, and rapid evaporation. While M. cf. georgianum is quite conspicuous and creeps on the surface film, the new species lives concealed within the substrate and rock crevices of the pool.
10.2307/3226840|Although molluscan conjoined larvae are rarely observed, over 600 conjoined twin, 11 triplet, and 2 quadruplet veligers were found among 125,000 normal veligers in 118 untreated egg masses produced in the laboratory over 5 months by slipper-shell snails, Crepidula fornicata. Seven twin morphologies were recorded, but two patterns (top-to-top, side-by-side) accounted for ~80% of all twins. Twinned larvae at hatching were similar in size to normal larvae but developed more slowly. Attached co-twins developed at the same rate and metamorphosed "spontaneously" on the same day. In the presence of an artificial metamorphic cue (elevated K
10.2307/3226850|The ultrastructure of body wall muscles of the nematomorphs Nectonema munidae and Gordius aquaticus, and the structure of additional isolated muscle strands in the posterior end of males of N. manidae, are described. The body wall muscles of both species are of the coelomyarian type. In N. munidae, the extension of the protoplasmic region of the muscle cells is very large in males, much smaller in females, and there is evidence for a sarcoplasmic reticulum and t-tubules. The diameters of the thick filaments are slightly lower than previously reported values. The ultrastructure of the muscle strands in males of N. munidae resembles that of the body wall muscle cells. Filaments can be restricted to one side of the strand or can be present all the way around. In Gordius aquaticus, there is evidence that the musculature is innervated by basi-epidermal nerves, as previously described for N. munidae. The absence of circular musculature is interpreted as a synapomorphy of the Nematoda and Nematomorpha, while a polymyarian condition with coelomyarian muscle cells most probably evolved convergently in the Nematomorpha and within the Nematoda, probably more than once.
3227088| The intertidal, sibling species Littorina scutulata and L. plena (Gastropoda, Prosobranchia) are sympatric throughout most of their ranges along the Pacific coast of North America. Both species release disc-shaped, planktonic egg capsules from which planktotrophic veliger larvae hatch. Here I review existing data and present new observations on these species' life history, including age at first reproduction, spawning season, maximum fecundity rates, capsule morphology, egg size and number, pre-hatching development, larval growth at three food concentrations, potential settlement cues, planktonic period, and protoconch size. Previous classification of egg capsule morphologies used to distinguish the species is inaccurate; instead, capsules can be categorized into three types of which each species may produce two. Females of L. scutulata produced capsules with either two rims of unequal diameter or one rim, while females of L. plena produced capsules with one rim or two rims of nearly equal diameter. Females of each species spawned sporadically from early spring to early fall in Puget Sound. Larvae of L. plena hatched one day earlier than those of L. scutulata, and both species grew fastest in the laboratory at intermediate food concentrations. Larvae metamorphosed in the presence of a variety of materials collected from their adult habitat, including conspecific adults, algae, rocks, and barnacle tests. This is the first report of planktotrophic larvae in this genus metamorphosing in the laboratory. The total planktonic period of 8 larvae of L. scutulata raised in the laboratory was 37-70 days, and a single larva of L. plena metamorphosed after 62 days. Protoconch diameter of shells collected from the field was 256-436 m and did not differ significantly between the species. Previous allozyme and mitochondrial DNA work has suggested high levels of genetic variability in both species and greater genetic population structure in L. plena, despite the long spawning season and long-lived larvae in both species. The interspecific life history differences described here appear insufficient to produce consistent differences in gene flow patterns. 
10.2307/3227009|A new species of Priapulida was discovered from the Beaufort Sea near Barrow, Alaska. Following an unusually strong autumnal storm, 30 adult specimens of Halicryptus higginsi n.sp. were collected, many alive, from intertidal beaches Additional specimens were found in museum collections misidentified as Halicryptus spinulosus von Siebold 1849. The new species represents the 11th priapulid species described since 1968 and increases the number of described extant species of Priapulida to 18. While all other recently described priapulids have been meiofaunal, Halicryptus higginsi n.sp. is macrofaunal and the largest extant priapulid species, with one specimen being 39 cm long in a contracted condition.
40981223|Many sacoglossan sea slugs incorporate intact, functional chloroplasts from their algal food sources into specialized cells lining the digestive diverticulum. The chloroplasts in adults of Elysia clarki are photosynthetically functional for many months. Members of this species feed on algae in the Ulvophyceae, including species of Penicillus and Bryopsis. However, other sacoglossans (Elysia patina, Elysia rufescens, and Placida kingstoni) use similar algal food sources as do adults of E. clarki, but are unable to maintain the chloroplasts for more than a week, with individuals of P. kingstoni apparently being unable to maintain chloroplasts for >24h. We have examined chloroplast sequestering cells of these species looking for morphological differences that may help explain the variation in chloroplast sequestration and maintenance among them. Our results indicate that P. kingstoni does not actively sequester chloroplasts at all, digesting them instead. However, the plastid sequestering mechanisms of individuals of E. patina and E. rufescens are similar to those of E. clarki, and the degradation of chloroplasts by specimens of E. patina is ultrastructurally similar to the same process in E. clarki, although chloroplast degradation occurs much more slowly in individuals of E. clarki. Our results suggest that species-level differences in the digestive capability of the phagosomes involved in the uptake of chloroplasts account for variation in the length of these kleptoplastic associations.
3701464| Alpha-level taxonomy in the bryozoan order Cheilostomata relies almost exclusively on hard-part morphology. Geographical, ecophenotypic, and intracolony variation often make it difficult to distinguish intra- from interspecific variation and to recognize taxonomically informative characters. DNA sequences provide a source of data independent of morphology by which to gauge the relative reliability of various morphological characters for taxonomy. We present a case study involving a limited number of specimens of Rhynchozoon sp. from Ketchikan, Alaska to show the utility of DNA data in identifying genetic lineages for subsequent morphological analysis. The study illustrates that the use of genetic data need not involve massive, broad-scale phylogenetic studies to address problems in invertebrate -level taxonomy. Phylogeny reconstruction with a 430-bp fragment of the 16S mitochondrial ribosomal RNA gene showed two moderately diverged clades, here termed Rhynchozoon clades A and B, separated by an average genetic distance of 2.38% (K2P+). Comparison of voucher specimens by scanning electron microscopy showed two congruent, morphologically distinct forms (forms A and B, respectively) distinguishable by a polythetic suite of characters including degree of frontal costation, range of spine number, number of beads on the primary orifice, number of areolar pores, and peri-orificial sculpturing. Orifice shape and ovicell form proved not to be good diagnostic characters. The status of the two forms as biological species is unclear, although maintenance of distinct suites of morphological characters in the two mitochondrial lineages suggests they may be reproductively isolated from one another. For Rhynchozoon form B, which tends to have a highly costate frontal wall, we suggest a resurrection of the name Rhynchozoon tumulosum, which had been previously synonymized with R. rostratum. Rhynchozoon form A may be conspecific with "Rhynchozoon sp. A" previously reported from Washington state. 
10.2307/3226934| During reproduction, the lateral (outer) demibranchs of the unionid mussel Pyganodon cataracta function in brooding females as marsupia in addition to serving in gas exchange, feeding, and ion transport. Recent studies indicate that glochidial brooding reduces clearance rates and particle retention efficiencies, but the opaque shell prevents direct observations of suspension feeding structures and makes it difficult to identify the underlying causes of the changes in feeding dynamics. In this study, video endoscopic techniques were used to describe and compare, in vivo, the feeding structures and dynamics of brooding and non-brooding females. Although circulation within the mantle cavity was slightly altered by the enlarged lateral (gravid) gills of brooding females, both medial and lateral gills continued to retain and process particles. During brooding, circulation through medial gills was maintained by the construction of secondary water tubes near the medial and lateral ends of the brood chambers. In vivo monitoring of particles retained by the frontal surface of the gill indicated that transport rates for particles processed by gravid gills of brooders were significantly slower than on lateral gills of non-brooders or on medial gills. Similarly, gravid gills were less efficient at retaining small particles (<6 m) than medial or non-gravid lateral gills. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that observed reductions in particle clearance rates and retention efficiencies in brooding female mussels are the result of functional changes in the ciliature and flow dynamics of the marsupial gills. Moreover, similar mechanisms mediating particle capture and processing on medial demibranchs appear to be unaffected by the presence of developing glochidia in the water tubes of the lateral gills. 
40206216|The differentiation of the female reproductive system from a macroscopic and microscopic point of view was studied in Cherax quadricarinatus. For this characterization, 184 females were dissected and processed for the histological analysis. From the differentiation of the ovary up to its maturity, three ovarian morphotypes could be distinguished macroscopically: parallel strands without any contact between them, an H-shaped ovary, and a Yshaped ovary. These morphotypes were compared within the Astacida. Four ovarian developmental stages were recognized based on ovary color, and the histological structure and relative proportion of cellular types. The post-spawning ovary was also characterized. The components of the female reproductive system sheath were described and its modifications in the ovary and oviducts were determined and compared. Theoretical aspects of the study of sexual differentiation in C. quadricarinatus were discussed within a phylogenetic framework.
3701449| The sabellid polychaete, Terebrasabella heterouncinata, forms burrows in gastropod shells. It is a small, intratubular brooder that breeds semi-continuously. It has been shown to self-fertilize, but its reproductive biology suggests that some form of sperm transfer must occur between individuals. To gain an understanding of its fertilization biology, the ultrastructure of spermiogenesis and the sperm in T. heterouncinata was described, and the animal examined for sperm storage structures. Spermiogenesis occurs in clusters of eight spermatids. The mature sperm has an elongate nucleus and a bilaterally symmetrical acrosome with twisted sub-acrosomal spaces. The midpiece is short, with three crescent-shaped mitochondria, and forms a tight sheath around the axoneme. A single spermatheca, which opens on the inner ventral part of the crown near the buccal region, is present. It is a simple blind-ending duct that runs below the ventral nerve cord and is longer than 100 m. This is the first record of a single spermatheca in Sabellidae. The shape of the sperm and the presence of a spermatheca confirm that individuals of T. heterouncinata produce ent-aquasperm and would normally cross-fertilize. 
3227117|In vitro and in vivo studies confirmed endocytic activity of free phagocytic amebocytes in Lytechinus variegatus. Amebocytes in the perivisceral coelom were labeled with injected ferritin, and ferritin-labeled amebocytes were found in the peristomial connective tissue only one hour after injection of India ink or yeast into this tissue. The presence of ferritin inside the amebocytes indicates that these cells migrated from the perivisceral coelom to the peristomial connective tissue. After 24 hours, particles of India ink or yeast were observed inside the ferritin-labeled amebocytes, indicating the amebocytes' ability to respond to an inflammatory stimulus. These were the only inflammatory cells found in L. variegatus, using the above mentioned stimuli and time spans.
3701514|The localization of vitellogenin (Vg) remains untested in amphioxus. Western blotting analysis showed that mouse anti-amphioxus Vg sera cross-reacted with the crude extracts of the hepatic diverticulum and ovary, and humoral fluids, including blood and coelomic fluid, from specimens of Branchiostoma belcheri. Similarly, immunohistochemical staining also revealed that Vg is localized in the hepatic diverticulum, sub-intestinal vessels, and ovary in amphioxus. The hepatic diverticulum of amphioxus, like the vertebrate liver, synthesizes Vg, suggesting that amphioxus hepatic diverticulum is functionally equivalent to the vertebrate liver in respect of the synthesis of this compound. This agrees with the idea that amphioxus hepatic diverticulum is the precursor of vertebrate liver.
3227235|In this study, we investigated a functional trade-off between trunk attachment and trunk-spine development in the acanthocephalan Corynosoma cetaceum. The worms live attached to the stomach and upper intestine of their cetacean definitive hosts, using the proboscis and spiny foretrunk as the main holdfast; the spiny hindtrunk can also attach by bending ventrally. When the hindtrunk bends, ventral compression generates an anterior fold (AF) and a posterior fold (PF). A morphological analysis based on 7,823 individuals collected from 10 franciscana dolphins, Pontoporia blainvillei, revealed that spines were smaller and more variable in size and occurrence in the folds than on neighboring areas; the growth of fold spines seemed to be inhibited to various degrees. Spines were more reduced in the AF than in the PF, and spines of both folds were more reduced in females than in males. Patterns of reduction appeared to be directly related to the intensity of fold compression associated with hindtrunk bending. Fold compression could induce plastic inhibition of spine growth, and/or could make fold spines maladaptive, spines being reduced by natural selection. Apparently, fold spines neither contact the substrate, nor are they exposed to the environment when the hindtrunk attaches. Therefore, fold spines could have reduced, or lost, their primary function, at least in the definitive host. The reduction and variability of spines in C. cetaceum seem to be unique among Corynosoma species.
3227229|The parasitic ciliate Orchitophrya stellarum was found in the testes of brooding, winter-spawning Leptasterias spp. from San Juan Island, Washington, but not in the testes of Leptasterias spp. from the Lynn Canal, Alaska. Dense populations of the ciliate were localized within the fuller areas of testes, where sperm counts were significantly reduced. The ciliates were loaded with phagosomes, some of which contained sperms in various stages of digestion. Leptasterias spp. are not as severely impacted by this ciliated protozoan parasite as Pisaster ochraceus. Leptasterias spp. may serve as seasonal hosts for O. stellarum; this ciliate lives in seawater and in ripe males of winter-brooding and spring-summer broadcasting sea stars. The wet weight of parasitized and non-parasitized males did not differ. The sex ratio did not deviate from the expected (1:1) in any population except at Point Louisa, Alaska, where males outnumbered females. Testis indexes of parasitized males from 2 of the 4 locations on San Juan Island, Washington were significantly reduced relative to non-parasitized males, indicating a loss of sperm output during spawning.
3701461|The majority of the published data about the reproductive biology of the decapod shrimp, Hippolyte inermis support the idea that this species is a protandric hermaphrodite, as is reported to be the case for certain other caridean species. However, our studies, based on the relative growth of the male reproductive appendage and histological examinations of the ovary, testes, oviducts, and deferentia vasa, indicate that there is no evidence supporting the occurrence of protandry. The first report of anomalies in the process of sexual inversion is credited to Reverberi (1950); however, we have obtained no evidence to support this phenomenon in H. inermis. We have not found either ovotestes or testes transforming into ovotestes. Therefore, we propose that H. inermis is a gonochoric species.
3227068|The mode of formation of the molluscan exoskeleton is still poorly understood, but studies on adult snails indicate that enzymes involved in vertebrate bone formation also participate in mollusc shell formation. The enzymes peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase, and acid phosphatase are expressed in a constant pattern and help to identify the different zones of the adult shell-forming tissue. The present study evaluates whether the expression of these enzymes is also a tool for the identification of the developing zones of the embryonic shell-forming tissue. Thus, we analyzed the temporal and spatial activity of the above-mentioned enzymes and of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase in the shell forming tissues in Biomphalaria glabrata. Embryos of different age groups and adults were studied; alkaline phosphatase activity was seen in very young embryos in the shell field invagination prior to the secretion of any shell material, while peroxidase activity was present from the start of the periostracum production. Acid phosphatase, found in considerable amounts in yolk granules and albumen cells, appeared in the embryonic shell-forming tissue in relatively few Golgi stacks. Tartrate-resistant phosphatase was not present in embryos, but was found in adults in the same zone of the mantle edge as acid phosphatase. Using the enzymes as cell markers, the differentiation of the embryonic shellforming tissue to the different zones of the adult mantle edge could clearly be followed.
40663873|The relationship of the polychaete taxa Syllidae and Sphaerodoridae within Phyllodocida is still unresolved: phylogenetic analyses either show them as sister groups or more widely separated. The present article aims to provide information about the structure of the muscular system that could be essential for understanding their relationship. A crucial point is whether the body wall contains circular muscles, which has recently been shown to be absent in more taxa than previously known. The F-actin filaments in members of Myrianida prolifera (Syllidae) and Sphaerodoropsis sp. (Sphaerodoridae) were labeled with phalloidin and their three-dimensional relationships reconstructed by means of confocal laser scanning microscopy. Among the noteworthy differences that emerged between the species are (1) members of M. prolifera possess four, those  Sphaerodoropsis sp. eight, longitudinal muscle strands; (2) the body wall in M. prolifera contains transverse fibers in a typical, supralongitudinal position, while in Sphaerodoropsis sp., corresponding fibers lie beneath the longitudinal strands; (3) pro- and peristomium in M. prolifera have no distinct F-actin fibers, while five longitudinal pairs and three single transverse muscular fibers shape the anterior end in Sphaerodoropsis sp.; (4) the pro ventricle of M. prolifera comprises primarily radial muscle fibers arranged in distinct rows, while in Sphaerodoropsis sp. the axial proboscis consists of longitudinal and circular fibers and radial fibers are lacking; (5) in M. prolifera, the proximal and distal sections of the two anteriormost pairs of dorsal cirri possess longitudinal myofilaments, which are separate from the body wall musculature; by contrast, all appendages in Sphaerodoropsis sp. do not; (6) both species have bracing muscles: in M. prolifera they are positioned above the longitudinal fibers, whereas in Sphaerodoropsis sp. they are uniquely positioned between longitudinal and sublongitudinal transverse fibers. These results do not support a sister-group relationship of Syllidae and Sphaerodoridae. In addition, Sphaerodoropsis sp. is yet another example in the list of polychaetes lacking typical circular muscles in the body wall.
40206235|The ophiuroid Amphipholis kochii is able to detach its central disc from the underlying oral frame in response to external stimuli. In this article we supply new observations on the microanatomy and ultrastructure of the autotomy plane, and of the juxtaligamental system which is believed to bring about connective tissue changes that underpin the detachment process. We correct previous confusion over the innervation of juxtaligamental nodes involved in disc autotomy, provide evidence that juxtaligamental cells are a population of specialized nerve cells, and present observations on changes in the ultrastructure of juxtaligamental cells during autotomy, which support the view that they are responsible for connective tissue disruption.
3227067|Palaeosoma balticus n. g., n. sp. (Rhabdocoela, Typhloplanoida), the oldest body fossil of a turbellarian and the first representative of the phylum Platyhelminthes found in fossilized resin, is described from Baltic amber 40 million years old. Characters of the fossil turbellarian are epidermal cilia, rhabdoids, a rosulate pharynx, adhesive papillae, and sensory bristles. The body cavity contains developing eggs or capsules. The fossil demonstrates that rhabdocoels had developed a terrestrial habit and were producing subitaneous eggs by the Eocene. A summary of the fossil and sub-fossil records of platyhelminths is presented.
3227205|The development of the genital apparatus is described for the echinoid Paracentrotus lividus. This apparatus derives from the aboral ring, an annular structure that includes an inconspicuous coelom and, in juveniles, the germinal rachis. The germinal epithelium grows out from the germinal rachis, and the gonadal wall and coelom in early (tubular) gonads share similarities with their equivalents in the aboral ring. The original germinal rachis regresses to form a genital cord one cell wide in late juveniles. A genital cord was observed in a few field-collected adult individuals (>40 mm test diameter).
3227115|In an ultrastructural study of the apical antenna of the last nymphal stages of Libellula depressa (Odonata: Libellulidae), we found long sensilla trichodea, 2 sensory pegs, and a coeloconic sensillum on the last article of the flagellum (the distal part of the antenna). The long sensilla trichodea are mechanoreceptors, almost identical to the long filiform hairs of some terrestrial insects and the first sensilla of this kind to be described in aquatic insects. Particular attention was given to the complex coeloconic sensillum, a compound sensillum innervated by 2 groups of 3 neurons wrapped in a dendritic sheath. A cuticular sleeve envelops the distal portion of the outer dendritic segment. The cuticle of the coeloconic sensillum shows wide channels and is contiguous to the underlying granular and fibrillar layer. Similar structures on the antennae of the adults of other dragonflies were identified as chemoreceptors in previous studies. We hypothesize that this larval coeloconic sensillum might likewise have a chemosensory function, responding to molecules that diffuse through the cuticle and the underlying granular and fibrillar layer, as no clear pore or pore-tubule system is visible. Alternative functions are also explored on the basis of morphological details.
3227083|The albumen gland is a female accessory sex gland that synthesizes and secretes perivitelline fluid around pulmonate eggs. The perivitelline fluid is composed of mainly galactogen and proteins, and is thought to provide nourishment to the embryos during development. We have previously identified the major secretory protein of the albumen gland of the freshwater snail Helisoma duryi as a native glycoprotein of ~288 kDa, consisting of four 66kDa subunits. In this study, the major albumen gland protein in H. duryi was purified, cloned, and the full-length cDNA sequence determined. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that the albumen gland protein (HdAGP) shared 83% identity with a partial cDNA sequence from a developmentally regulated albumen gland protein in Biomphalaria glabrata. The HdAGP mRNA was detected by RT-PCR in the albumen gland, ovotestis, mantle and digestive gland. SDS-PAGE analysis of the albumen gland protein in egg masses at different stages of development showed that the amount of HdAGP steadily decreased during embryogenesis, suggesting its possible catabolism by the developing embryos. Protein domain searches suggested that the HdAGP shared limited sequence identity, and adopted a similar three-dimensional conformation to the bactericidal, permeability increasing, protein family, raising the possibility of a potential bactericidal function for this important reproductive/developmental protein.
3701474|Historically, characters from early animal development have been a potentially rich source of phylogenetic information, but many traits associated with the gametes and larval stages of animals with complex life cycles are widely suspected to have evolved frequent convergent similarities. Such convergences will confound true phylogenetic relationships. We compared phylogenetic inferences based on early life history traits with those from mitochondrial DNA sequences for sea stars in the genera Asterina, Cryptasterina, and Patiriella (Valvatida: Asterinidae). Analysis of these two character sets produced phylogenies that shared few clades. We quantified the degree of homoplasy in each character set when mapped onto the phylogeny inferred from the alternative characters. The incongruence between early life history and nucleotide characters implies more homoplasy in the life history character set. We suggest that the early life history traits in this case are most likely to be misleading as phylogenetic characters because simple adaptive models predict convergence in early life histories. We show that adding early life history characters may slightly improve a phylogeny based on nucleotide sequences, but adding nucleotide characters may be critically important to improving inferences from phylogenies based on early life history characters.
10.2307/3226900|Experiments were conducted to evaluate the effect of different macrophytes on the distribution of grass shrimps. Populations of Palaemonetes pugio and P. vulgaris were placed separately, then together, in an experimental (aquarium) environment comprising equal areas of four microhabitats: an area of unvegetated gravel, an area containing plastic plants resembling Ambulia, and areas with live thalli of the flat green alga Ulva or the branched green alga Codium. The distribution of individuals of P. vulgaris among the microhabitats (3% on bare gravel, 10% on "Ambulia," 15% on Ulva, 63% on Codium) did not change significantly when this species was mixed with P. pugio. The distribution of P. pugio alone was much like that of P. vulgaris, but it did change significantly when P. vulgaris was present (from 3 to 7% on gravel, 10 to 16% on "Ambulia," 19 to 29% on Ulva, 63 to 44% on Codium). Characteristics of the macrophytes (physical complexity, availability of food items) and the shrimps (residual predator conditioning, interspecific agonistic contacts) are suggested as factors in the distributions observed.
10.2307/3227029| The development of the azooxanthellate octocoral Dendronephthya hemprichi from spawned gametes to planula larvae has been described, using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Development of fertilized eggs is holoblastic, occurring until the 32-cell stage either by superficial divisions or by total cleavage. The pseudospiral development from the eight-cell stage leads to round stereoblastulae, followed by the appearance of embryos with bizarre forms. All developmental stages until the mature planulae are negatively buoyant. The planulae have a densely flagellated surface, and swim actively. The duration of development to mature planulae followed a seasonal pattern, ranging between 27-45 h from summer (at 26C) to winter (at 20-21C), and probably reflected temperature effects. Similarly, in summer the first cleavage furrow was observed 2 h after mixing the gametes, whereas in winter this did not occur for at least 4 h. A significant variation was noted in egg diameter and planulae size from different colonies collected at the same time (December 1990). Longevity and maximal competency periods of 100 and 65 days, respectively, were found for the planulae during July-September 1990, suggesting a potential for long distance dispersal in the reef environment. 
40206193|Many animals have the ability to delay metamorphosis when conditions are unfavorable. This strategy carries obvious benefits, but may also result in severe consequences for lecithotrophic larvae that run low on time and energy. Precocious activation of postlarval developmental programs--so-called anticipatory development--may be adaptive and increase the survival of older, energy-depleted larvae by allowing more rapid metamorphosis. Three of six solitary ascidian species displayed extensive anticipatory development of postlarval structures, similar to heterochronies normally observed for colonial species. The capacity for anticipatory development may be linked to the length of competent period, taxonomic group, or both: members of suborder Phlebobranchia exhibited extensive anticipatory development and long competent periods, but members of suborder Stolidobranchia exhibited little or no anticipatory development and had shorter competent periods. Delay of metamorphosis of up to 3 d did not negatively impact postlarval and juvenile growth rates for any of three species tested, regardless of taxonomic group or length of competent period, although a longer, 7-d, delay resulted in slower postlarval growth in Ciona intestinalis. Anticipatory development of postlarval structures may ameliorate the negative consequences of delay of metamorphosis in C. intestinalis and Ascidiella aspersa, but Molgula socialis showed neither anticipatory development nor a negative impact of metamorphic delay on postlarval fitness. This is the first demonstration that anticipatory development of postlarval structures, normally associated only with colonial ascidians, can occur as a normal part of the development of solitary ascidians.
4621923|In the newly hatched larva in Allacma fusca, the midgut epithelium was fully developed and formed by flattened epithelial cells surrounding the yolk mass in the midgut lumen. Immediately after hatching, the first larva began to feed; the migut lumen was filled with the yolk mass and food (mainly algae). Regenerative cells typical of the developing midgut epithelium of many insects were not observed. Initially, midgut cells of the larva were cuboidal but became columnar in shape with distinct regionalization in the distribution of cell organelles. Furthermore, urospherites appeared in the midgut cell cytoplasm, i.e., structures characteristic for the midgut epithelium of insects having no Malpighian tubules. As a result, cells with the capacity for digestion, absorption, and excretion were observed to be completely formed in the first larval stage.
3227215|The adoral sense organ in bivalve molluscs is a paired ridge of specialized epithelium positioned laterally at the base of the labial palps near the mouth opening, clearly distinguishable from the surrounding epithelia. Six species of the protobranch order Nuculoida, and one species of Solemyoida, were investigated by light microscopy concerning presence, gross anatomy, and innervation of the adoral sense organ. The organ was described in detail for Nucula nucleus and N. nitidosa by transmission electron microscopy; in these two species, the organ was characterized as a pseudostratified epithelial thickening with specialized cells bearing a specialized microvillar border and a basal matrix with a lamellar layer. Three types of bipolar primary receptor cells were recognized and these were reconstructed for N. nucleus. Most of the receptor cells had 2 cilia orientated parallel to the cell surface; in addition, there were 2 types of supporting cells and 1 type of basal cell. The surrounding epithelial cells were narrow with short microvilli and lacked cilia. The homology of the organ within protobranch bivalves was suggested by a character-complex of: (1) position, (2) dimension of the epithelium, (3) innervation, (4) pseudostratified construction, (5) dimension of the specialized microvillar border, (6) thickening of the basal matrix, and (7) presence of specialized cell types such as receptor cells. Despite the estimated high number of protobranch species there is only scant information available on the adoral sense organ from 24 species of 8 genera. Structures and receptor types that are similar to those found in the adoral sense organ are widespread in molluscs and other invertebrate groups; this may indicate a plesiomorphy of these characters rather than an apomorphy for the protobranch clade. Therefore, the adoral sense organ may be of minor phylogenetic value above the level of protobranch orders.
3227142|In species of the monogenean helminth Gyrodactylus, the opisthaptor is the main organ of attachment to the host. The opisthaptor comprises two large centrally positioned hooks or hamuli and sixteen peripherally distributed marginal hooks. This paper describes the functional morphology and the mechanism and sequence of attachment in this species. Information on the attachment process was gathered from observations of live gyrodactylids, from transmission electron microscopy, from scanning electron microscopy of skeletal elements, and by histochemical and X-ray elemental analysis of hook chemical composition. The marginal hooks provide the principal force of attachment whilst the hamuli are not actively employed in the process of attachment. Instead, the hamuli provide a system preventing accidental dislodgement and assist the action of the marginal hooks. Attachment is achieved by the alternating action of two systems of muscles attached respectively to the hamuli and to the marginal hooks. Relaxation or contraction of the muscles connected to the hamuli manoeuvres the hamuli over the extremities of the accessory ventral bar and allows them to pivot around their longitudinal axis, effectively raising or lowering the opisthaptoral dome. Under reduced opisthaptoral tension, the independent gaffing activity of the marginal hooks ensures a secure attachment to the host's epidermis. Repositioning of the hamuli then raises the opisthaptoral dome to tension the peripheral marginal hooks. The sequence of attachment is complete when all the muscles associated with the hooks are in a state of relaxation but are held securely and under tension by the surrounding, stretched, opisthaptoral dome.
25623061|We present the first report on the use of the non-invasive method of synchrotron X-ray microtomography to model the dynamics and theoretical bite forces of arthropod mouthparts. The nature of the data allowed us to include precise measurements of muscle areas and the spatial geometry of muscle origins and insertions into a biomechanical model of a morphological microstructure. We investigated the functional morphology of the chelicera in the oribatid mite Archegozetes longisetosus (Acari, Oribatida), a model organism for Chelicerata. The chelicera represents a first-class lever; the intrinsic muscular system consists of a feather-shaped depressor with six muscle bundles and a bouquet-shaped levator with 16 bundles. The relative bite forces, as compared with body mass $(\text{force}/\text{mass}^{2/3})$ , are 390 N kg and lie within those known for vertebrates (260 N kg) and decapod chelae (915 N kg). The dynamics of force transmission and bite forces during the movement of the apotele are calculated. The conserved organization of cheliceral musculature allows broad adaptation of the model to other chelicerate taxa.
10.2307/3226925|Many temperate ascidians reproduce seasonally but the factors controlling their gametogenic cycles have not been experimentally demonstrated. I tested the effects of daylength on gametogenesis in three ascidians (Boltenia villosa, Styela gibbsii, and Chelyosoma productum) by exposing animals to normal or reversed light cycles and measuring gonad and oocyte sizes. Under a normal cycle, all species followed patterns reported for field populations. B. villosa showed evidence of continuous reproduction; S. gibbsii and C. productum spawned primarily in the spring (though a secondary mid-winter spawn may also have occurred in S. gibbsii). Altering the light cycle demonstrated that the gametogenic cues differ in these three species. Gametogenesis in B. villosa and S. gibbsii was largely unaffected by a reversed light treatment but the cycle of C. productum was dramatically changed. Even in C. productum, however, the gametogenic cycle was not completely reset in the 12-month experiment. This suggests that other factors (e.g., temperature, endogenous rhythms) contribute to gametogenic control. Longer-term experiments are needed to establish the relative importance of light cycle in these species.
4621898|A new interstitial loriciferan, Nanaloricus gwenae sp. nov., is described from coarse-sand and shell-hash habitats (Amphioxus sand), at 15-17 m depth, 6-7 miles off the coast of Fort Pierce, FL, USA. The new species is very closely related to the type species Nanaloricus mysticus found off the coast of Roscoff, France in nearly the same kind of sediment (Dentalium sand). All life stages (Higgins larva, postlarva, and adult) in the life cycle of the new species were found through the 10-year investigation, leading to the conclusion that all species of Nanaloricidae have only a sexual reproductive cycle. The adult of the new species can be distinguished by the different body shape, the lorical spikes and sculpture, and the shape of the scalids. The postlarva has stronger longitudinal ridges on the lorical plates and the Higgins larva has toes with smaller mucrones than those of N. mysticus. An emended definition of the Nanaloricidae is provided based on the new formula of the number of rows and shape of the scalids on the introvert. The associated meiofauna found in the subtidal sand or shell hash is both abundant and diverse. Tardigrades, gastrotrichs, and kinorhynchs are among the most common associates. N. gwenae sp. nov. is represented by only eight specimens collected during a 10-year period of sampling this habitat.
23016261|The effects of spatial competition among colonial marine organisms are often evident in the contact zones between colonies. These effects are especially pronounced when the interaction results in overgrowth or necrosis of one of the competitors. Ascidians, one of the dominant taxonomic groups in subtidal sessile communities, have specialized morula cells that provide a defense against microbial infections. Injuries resulting from interspecific competitive interactions might also act as a stimulus for this defensive mechanism. Therefore, we expected to see the recruitment of morula cells in tissues near competitor contact zones. To test the hypothesis that spatial competition elicits this immune response, we placed colonies of the ascidian Didemnum perlucidum from southeastern Brazil in four different types of competitive situations: (1) overgrowth of the competitor, (2) stand-off interactions, (3) overgrowth by the competitor, and (4) free of competitors. Our results indicate that competitive interactions increase the population of morula cells in contact zones, as more cells were observed in interactions that resulted in the overgrowth of individuals of D. perlucidum, and fewer cells were observed in colonies that were free of competitors. We identified the defensive function of the morula cells by showing the presence of the enzyme phenoloxidase within its vacuoles. Phenoloxidase is a widespread enzyme among animals and plants, and is frequently used in defense by synthesizing toxic quinones from polyphenol substrates. This is the first study to document the presence of morula cells in didemnid ascidians and the mobilization of these cells by spatial competition by heterospecifics, and one of the first studies to identify phenoloxidase activity in morula cells.
10.2307/3226860|In Dugesia gonocephala, unlike other planarians, the cells of the copulatory bursa fulfill both a secretory and phagocytic function. Enzymes are synthesized in the absence of a spermatophore and are secreted into the lumen of the bursa when a spermatophore is received from a partner. During the days following copulation, seminal material is engulfed by the cells through cytoplasmic protrusions that extend into the lumen of the bursa. This material disintegrates and, as a result, the cells are filled with phagosomes of different sizes 3-4 days after copulation. Sperm cells are also digested in phagocytic cells that line the proximal side of the vitellarian follicles. Upon arrival in the lumen of the sperm receptacles, sperms penetrate the surrounding epithelial cells.
3701488|The reproduction of the demosponge Chondrilla nucula in Portofino (Ligurian Sea, Italy) was studied during August 2001. Eighteen individuals were sampled and examined with light microscopy for the presence of gametes, and 5 individuals carrying oocytes were found. In addition to microscopic observations, reproductive individuals could be easily identified as female even at the macroscopic level because of the presence of a grayish layer in the mesohyl where oocytes were concentrated. Oogenesis resulted in modifications of the external sponge morphology and of the aquiferous system. Approximately one-third of the sponge body was filled with oocytes with the consequent disappearance of choanocyte chambers in the reproductive portion of the sponge. Under laboratory conditions, we obtained fertilized eggs from females and observed the first stages of embryonic development. Our observations suggest that fertilization in specimens of Chondrilla nucula occurs internally and not in the water. During the 2 years following these observations, no reproductive specimens were found among the same population during the reported reproductive period.
10.2307/3226901|Calcium (Ca
40981229|Three morphotypespurple, tan, and whiteof an irregular echinoid of the genus Echinocrepis are commonly observed in the deep North Pacific Ocean. Mitochondrial (mt) 16S DNA and cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) DNA sequences were amplified from gonadal tissue samples from specimens of each morphotype. These portions of the mitochondrial genome are commonly used in species barcoding, and their similarities were compared and placed in 95% connection limit parsimony networks. All three morphotypes have similar 16S mtDNA and COI mtDNA sequences, and are thus likely representatives of the same species, Echinocrepis rostrata. Specimens of the white morphotype were smaller than the specimens of the other two morphotypes, had less gonad tissue, and had a different body shape, suggesting that it represents the juvenile form of E. rostrata. Resolving the three morphotypes into one species simplifies the identification of E. rostrata from photographs and leads to a greater understanding of the life history and reproductive cycle of a species vital to deep-sea bioturbation and carbon sequestration.
10.2307/3226979|Bryozoans rid themselves of fecal pellets using a more complex and varied set of behaviors than might be expected from their body plan and feeding behavior. In bryozoans from the northern Adriatic Sea and in Bogue Sound, North Carolina, expelled pellets traveled along one of four pathways to leave the zooid. In two of these pathways, fecal pellets were drawn into the lophophore in the direction opposite to the feeding current. Each pellet entered the lophophore through a temporary gap created between the two tentacles closest to the anus. Once in the lophophore, the pellet was propelled through the lophophore beyond the tentacle tips or it was drawn back through the entry gap and carried away in the outflow of filtered water. In other zooids, pellets did not enter the lophophore but were carried away, along the surface of the colony, in the flow of filtered water or were moved along the exterior of the extended lophophore to escape beyond the tentacle tips. A large majority of the Adriatic zooids and nearly half of the Carolina zooids expelled pellets that traveled into the lophophore. In many species studied, zooids rid themselves of pellets along at least two different pathways. Apparently, zooids respond to local flow environment and direct fecal pellets in appropriate directions to flush them away from the colony surface.
23016257|Autotomy of the elytra (scales) in the annelid Alentia gelatinosa occurs at a breakage plane near the junction between the elytron and its elytrophore (stalk), and requires fracture of the external epidermal cuticle. The mechanism of cuticular fracture was investigated by light and electron microscopy, glycoconjugate histochemistry, direct observation of autotomy in isolated preparations, and mechanical tests. The breakage plane crosses the elytrophoral wall at a cuticular thickening and passes through the subelytral cavity between the elytron and the terminal septum of the elytrophore. At the cuticular breakage zone (CBZ), the collagenous framework of the normal cuticle is replaced with non-collagenous microfibrils. The CBZ has a complex glycoconjugate composition and includes a strongly sulfated, uronic acid-containing glycosaminoglycan and a high proportion of disulfide or sulfydryl linkages. Tonofilament-rich epidermal cells (tendon cells) are attached to the thick cuticle on the dorsal and ventral sides of the CBZ. Dorsal tendon cells have long processes that extend into the elytron near the roof of the subelytral cavity. Ventral tendon cells are linked by connective tissue to the longitudinal and terminal sphincter muscles of the elytrophore. Mechanical tests showed that the elytrophoral wall is not inherently weaker at the autotomy plane than elsewhere. It is hypothesized that at autotomy (i) contractile force generated by the sphincter muscle is transmitted through elytrophoral tendon cells to the ventral side of the CBZ and (ii) contraction of the longitudinal and main circular muscles of the elytrophore increases hydrostatic pressure in its lumen, everts the terminal septum, and generates tension that is transmitted through elytral tendon cells to the dorsal side of the CBZ. This results in stress concentration at the basal edge of the CBZ and initiates fracture. The distinctive microstructure and macromolecular composition of the CBZ may reduce its fracture toughness and make it more susceptible to brittle failure.
3701485|The anterior lateral arteries are paired vessels leaving the anterior end of the lobster (Homarus americanus) heart and proceeding to the antennae and eyestalks, the stomach and hepatopancreas, the gonads, and the thoracic and branchial muscles. These vessels have a trilaminar organization, consisting of a tunica interna with elastic fibrils, a tunica intermedia represented by a bilayered cell mass, and a tunica externa with collagen fibrils. In the tunica intermedia, cells flanking the tunica interna (light cells) show less affinity for basic dyes and electron stains than those flanking the tunica externa (dark cells). Each light cell exhibits an irregularly shaped stress fiber (a bundle of closely packed microfilaments) in the region adjoining the tunica interna. Collectively, these bundles have a circumferential or slightly oblique orientation relative to the lumen of the vessel. The role of the stress fibers is unresolved. If they are static structures, they might contribute to the non-linear elasticity shown by lobster arteries. If they generate force, and small bundles of microfilaments do diverge from the stress fibers to enter filamentous mats applied to the plasmalemmata, a coordinated contraction of the cells might reduce the luminal diameter and, thus, retard the flow of hemolymph. Coordination of contraction would have to occur in the absence of nerves and without the benefit of communicating (gap) junctions between the light and dark cells.
40206244|We have collected evidence that the nominal species, Polydora cornuta Bosc 1802, contains at least three separate species in North America. Specimens of P. cornuta were collected in California, Florida, and Maine, raised in the laboratory, and assessed for reproductive compatibility, genetic similarity, gamete characteristics, and developmental rates. Reproductive crosses between each combination of sex and population revealed variable levels of hybridization at the level of fertilization. Percent fertilization was very low for all combinations (0-7%) except for California females crossed with Florida males (42%). In all interpopulation crosses, fertilized eggs arrested in cleavage and no viable larvae were produced. All pairwise comparisons of the studied populations showed significant differences in multiple reproductive traits. Mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I DNA sequences revealed large differences between Florida and California worms with a maximum likelihood genetic distance of d=0.860, while Florida and Maine worms were d=0.806, and California and Maine d=0.156. California and New Zealand worms were very similar genetically (d=0.010). These data strongly suggest that populations of P. cornuta in North America comprise a cryptic species complex composed of at least three distinct lineages.
10.2307/3227045|Bryozobia synaptos n. gen., n. sp., from the Grand Recif of Madagascar and the Mascarene Plateau north of Mauritius, is the only cirriped known that has evolved an intimate association with cheilostome bryozoans. This small barnacle settles on a bryozoan colony and in time overgrows a number of zooids, modifying its shell to accommodate them by developing numerous passages (atria) through its basis and wall by a process involving substrate replication. Calcareous, tubular passages formed in the basis of the barnacle grow radially, keeping pace with marginal growth of the barnacle's wall. Eventually, the openings to the zooecial tubes at the wall margin are encircled by the barnacle, thereby forming the first whorl of atria through which the bryozoan deploys its lophophores. During subsequent growth the process is repeated once or twice more. We hypothesize that this is a co-evolutionary relationship and is mutually adaptive in a number of ways. In particular, the bryozoan benefits by having zooids survive that otherwise would have been buried and by the barnacle functioning as a site for one of its excurrent chimneys. The barnacle may benefit from the flow of edible debris and waste-laden currents associated with such chimneys and from disruptive camouflage created by the bryozoan lophophores.
25623059|The speciose tropical soft coral genus Sinularia traditionally has been divided into five intrageneric taxonomic groups based on variation in a single morphological character: the shape of the club sclerites (calcite skeletal elements) embedded in the surface tissues of the colony. To test the phylogenetic utility of this system of classification, we used a 735-bp fragment of the octocoral-specific mitochondrial msh1 gene to construct a molecular phylogeny that included 80 of the 150 recognized morphospecies of Sinularia. The msh1 phylogeny recovered five well-supported clades, but they were not congruent with the traditional intrageneric taxonomic groups. Mapping of characters onto the tree suggested that the five major clades plus several additional sub-clades of Sinularia can be distinguished based on a suite of four morphological characters; these include the presence of sclerites in the tentacle, collaret, and point regions of the polyps, in addition to the shape of the club sclerites in the surface tissues. The overall growth form of the colony also distinguishes some clades. Polyp sclerites have for the most part been overlooked taxonomically in Sinularia, and as a result information on these characters is lacking or is incorrect in many species descriptions. As has been the case in other recent studies of lower metazoan groups, construction of a molecular phylogeny has led us to recognize the phylogenetic and taxonomic importance of previously overlooked morphological characters. A revised taxonomic key that includes these characters is already improving our ability to discriminate species boundaries, and facilitating description of new Sinularia species.
4621910|The hypothesis that infecting trematodes influence the spatial distribution of the estuarine snail Ilyanassa obsoleta was tested. This work was conducted in the Savages Ditch habitat, Rehoboth Bay, DE, USA, which has an essentially flat, sandy-mud bottom bordered by saltmarsh shorelines and many infected snails. In 1996, two groups of snails were individually marked and released from one location after being screened for trematode infections. One group, transplanted from sites where snails tended not to be infected, consisted of snails that tested as uninfected. The other group consisted of snails native to Savages Ditch. Species of trematode carried by each snail was recorded. Marked snails were found and their positions were recorded until 2001. Snails were in five infection categories: (1) not infected, and infected with (2) Himasthla quissetensis, or (3) Lepocreadium setiferoides, or (4) Zoogonus rubellus, or (5) with both H. quissetensis and Z. rubellus. The results show that the spatial distributions of snails depended on whether or not they were infected and, if infected, on which trematode species they carried. To complete life cycles, these parasites must accomplish transmission from the first (the snail) to the second intermediate hosts by short-lived, swimming cercariae. These data do not allow resolution of why snails distributed as they did, but sighting distributions of infected snails can be related to distributions of second hosts and it is proposed that parasites engender host snail distributions that improve chances of transmission.
25623062|Fine morphological details of the genitalia have large potential consequences for the understanding of the reproductive biology of a particular species, especially when mating behavioral studies are difficult to conduct. Oonopidae are a highly diverse spider family comprising a variety of species with complex female reproductive systems, which may have evolved under sexual selection by cryptic female choice. The present study describes the female genitalia of five oonopid species belonging to both conventionally recognized subfamilies by means of semi-thin sections and scanning electron microscopy. In addition, the male palps are briefly described. The organization of the female genitalia in Scaphiella hespera and Scaphiella sp. resembles the entelegyne type. A chitinized canal connects the receptaculum, where sperm are stored, with the uterus. Sperm are also present in the uterus and the canal is suggested to function as fertilization duct. The genitalia of the parthenogenetic species Triaeris stenaspis are surprisingly complex. A large sac with glands is proposed to represent the equivalent of a receptaculum in sexually reproducing females. In females of Opopaea recondita, sperm are stored in a bulge derivating from the uterus. Contractions of muscles attached to the bulge may lead to sperm dumping. The uterus can be closed by a sclerite in its anterior wall. The receptacula of females of Stenoonops reductus are joined together and contain masses of spermatozoa. Additional sperm were found in the receptacula connection suggesting that fertilization takes place there. The male palps of all the investigated species, except for S. hespera, seem to lack a distincly sclerotized sperm duct. Spermatozoa and secretions are stored in a large reservoir inside the genital bulb surrounded by glandular epithelium.
3227080|The reproductive biology, development, and planula behavior of the gorgonian Pseudopterogorgia elisabethae were studied at 2 sites in the Bahamas between 1996 and 2001. Colonies were gonochoric, and females brooded planulae on the colony surface. Gonads were observed only in colonies 18 cm high or larger. Spawning was asynchronous within and between sites but was concentrated 2-10 days after the new moons from late November through early January. Fertilized eggs developed into planulae over 1-2 days and the planulae remained attached to the surface of the female colony for an additional 2-4 days. Planulae were negatively buoyant and field observations suggest that larvae may settle within tens of meters of the maternal colony. P. elisabethae is harvested for natural products, and information on the reproduction of this commercially important species is crucial to the understanding of its population biology and to the development of management plans for the conservation of the species.
10.2307/3226971| Larval metamorphosis of the dorid nudibranch Adalaria proxima is induced by a water-borne cue present in seawater that has been conditioned with live Electra pilosa, its preferred bryozoan prey. Extracts and fractions of Electra-conditioned seawater (CSW) were assessed in bioassays of competent larvae to further elucidate the nature of the inductive chemical cue. Extracts of volatile compounds and lipids present in CSW did not induce metamorphosis; the fractions of CSW remaining after extraction still retained the inducer. Heating CSW to 80 C for 5 min did not eliminate the inductive cue, but metamorphic activity was decreased after boiling CSW for 5 min. No larvae metamorphosed in treatments in which CSW was incubated with trypsin or protease before bioassay. Larvae metamorphosed in CSW after centrifugation, filtration (0.22 m), and treatment with a bactericide. Metamorphosis was induced by ultrafiltrates (10 kDa, 1 kDa, and 500 Da) of CSW, albeit in a variable manner. Up to 45% of larvae metamorphosed in the 500 Da and 1 kDa fractions. There was little response by larvae to the 10 kDa fraction. These procedures eliminated volatile organic molecules, lipids, and large proteins as potential molecules inducing metamorphosis of larvae of A. proxima. Furthermore, that treatment of CSW with trypsin eliminated the inductive cue and that metamorphosis occurred in ultrafiltrates of CSW strongly suggests that larvae of A. proxima respond to a small (<500 Da) arginine- or lysine-containing peptide. 
3227143|Details of the life cycle of freshwater nematomorphs (gordiids) remain unclear. Free-living aquatic larval gordiids must make a critical transition from an epibenthic aquatic environment to terrestrial hosts. In order to identify potential hosts capable of bridging this ecological gap, the specificity of paratenic hosts of three common species of North American gordiids was investigated. All three species were characterized by an identical infection pattern: low host specificity. Gordiids were able to encyst within annelids, mollusks, crustaceans, insects and a vertebrate. Three species of putative host (a turbellarian, a water mite, and a mosquito larva) were not infected with any of the gordiid species. Internal defense reactions (IDR) and feeding behaviors are implicated as preventing infection in these species. Several of the other host species produced either an IDR or an immune reaction to the cysts, although reactions to the cysts were highly variable between species. In most species, IDR did not cause noticeable harm to the encysted larvae. It is proposed that although many species are easily infected with gordiid cysts, most do not act as natural paratenic hosts. For some of these host groups, especially snails, a role as reservoir host is suggested. Of all hosts included in this study, aquatic insects were identified as the hosts likely responsible for spanning the ecological gap and acting as true hosts for gordiids.
3701462| A light and transmission electron microscope study of sections of cells of-and of cells and tissues of-and of cells, associated with the previously undescribed tymbal muscle of a periodical cicada (Brood X of the 17-year cicada) was undertaken to (i) compare their features with similar features described for other cicada tymbal muscles, (ii) use that information to try to determine cytologically whether the muscle should be considered synchronous or asynchronous, and (iii) seek information about ultrastructural features not previously described for any cicada. In cross section the myofibrils are slightly angular and have an abundance of sarcoplasmic reticulum and T tubules. Longitudinal sections show a pair of T tubules, one of each pair located midway between the Z line and the center (H level) of each sarcomere. These cytological features are consistently found in the tymbal muscles of the majority of other cicada genera and species, which are designated synchronous muscles, and all of which are termed fast muscles. The amount of sarcoplasmic reticulum increases at the Z lines. The largest mitochondria occur in the largest axons, but the smallest axons have more neurotubules per cross-section area. Axon diameters range 0.14-20 m. Multinucleate adipocytes, with vacuoles that appear either empty or content-containing, and tracheocytes, which could either be binucleate or have a lobate or U-shaped nucleus, are located at the periphery of the muscle. Large numbers of microtubules occur in the interface glia. The diameters of microtubules and neurotubules (~27 nm) agree closely with the averages usually cited. This study indicates that the tymbal muscles of this cicada should be designated as synchronous, and it describes ultrastructural features that are typical and others that are unusual. 
10.2307/3226951| Perinereis nuntia var. brevicirrus was collected from a rocky shore at Qingdao, China, and cultured in the laboratory. Spawning heteronereids occur with a semilunar periodicity about 2-4 days after full moon and new moon in the field as well as in laboratory cultures. Both sexual partners emerge from their burrows and swarm at the water surface in the early morning. As typical in nereid species, a nuptial dance at the water surface follows the encounter. While the male and female swim around each other in circles, gametes are released into the water. In P. n. var. brevicirrus, both eggs and sperms are connected within 2 threads of mucus. During swarming, a gelatinous egg mass is shaped by the circular swimming pattern of both sexual partners. To our knowledge this is the only nereid species producing connected gamete strings and a regular, formed egg mass. Embryos develop within greenish egg capsules and hatch out at the nectochaete stage after 7-8 days in summer water temperatures (21 C to 23 C), after 9-10 days at 18 C, and after 2-3 weeks at 15 C. No planktonic larval stages occur. Juvenile worms reach a length of 2-3 cm after 2 months. 
40206191|The anterior median artery is an unpaired vessel that leaves the anterior end of the lobster (Homarus americanus) heart and supplies hemolymph to the brain, the antennae, and the eyestalks. This vessel has a trilaminar organization, consisting of a tunica interna with elastic fibrils, a tunica intermedia represented by a bilayered cell mass, and a tunica externa with collagen fibrils. The exposed ends of the medial cells in the tunica intermedia exhibit small, diffuse bundles of microfilaments that are penetrated by microtubules. These bundles have a circumferential or a slightly oblique orientation relative to the lumen of the vessel. The precise role of the microfilaments is unresolved. If the irregularly shaped bundles are static structures, they might contribute to the non-linear elasticity of the artery. Alternatively, if they generate force, a coordinated contraction of the medial cells might reduce the luminal diameter of the artery and, thus, retard hemolymph flow. Microfilaments of the medial cells anchor to subplasmalemmal filamentous mats, some of which are integral to intermediate junctions and some of which are associated with unbounded cell membranes (hemi-intermediate junctions). Contraction of the microfilament-bearing cells would have to occur without the benefit of nervous innervation or the participation of communicating (gap) junctions. If cell contractility is confirmed, a reclassification of the anterior median artery, from capacitance vessel to resistance vessel, is in order, and the bilayered cell mass in the tunica intermedia would likely qualify as the first unstriated muscle found in crustaceans.
3701480|The embryonic development in Chione cancellata, from fertilization to straighthinge D-stage veliger larva, occurs in 24 h at 25 C. Transmission (TEM) and scanning (SEM) electron microscopy show that morphogenetic processes result in a gastrula with two depressions, 4 h after fertilization (
10.2307/3226942|Filamentous eukaryotic algae were found completely embedded in the tunic matrix of 6 species of ascidians from the cold-temperate waters of southern New Zealand: the aplousobranch Aplidium thomsoni (Polyclinidae) and 5 solitary stolidobranchs, Asterocarpa humilis (Styelidae) and Pyura cancellata, P. carnea, P. pulla, and P. suteri (Pyuridae). All the ascidians appeared to be completely healthy, and the stolidobranchs showed evidence of tunic blood vessel hypertrophy in the regions of algal filaments. Only those individuals growing in at least a low-light environment contained algae; individuals of the same species growing in dark conditions contained none. The algal symbionts include Neevea repens (Rhodophyta), Pseudendoclonium submarinum and Ostreobium quekettii (Chlorophyta), and an unidentified filamentous (probable) phaeophyte. Dense growths of Neevea and Pseudendoclonium were found in the tunic matrix in all six ascidians, most abundantly just under the tunic cuticle but extending several millimeters into the tunic. Subsequent recent discovery of filamentous chlorophytes in the tunic of two species of American Pacific coast solitary ascidians leads us to conclude that this algal habitat may be a widespread phenomenon that has been overlooked in the supposition that the algae were merely epizoic. Most of these ascidians also contained numerous alga-filled tunic pockets probably formed during the incorporation of sand grains with epipsammic algae that later proliferated. Though previously noted anecdotally in the literature, this report is the first compilation of this algal assemblage. They include Sarcinochrysis marina (Chrysophyta), unidentified diatoms, unicellular chlorophytes, and the prokaryote cyanobacteria Dermocarpa, Xenococcus, and Synechococcus. Similar species, along with Oscillatoria, Spirulina, and Anabaena, were also found in the inter-tunic cavity of the peculiar double-tunic ascidians Pyura cancellata and P. carnea.
3227104|Although the oesophageal appendages in the four enchytraeids Enchytraeus crypticus, Fridericia striata, Buchholzia appendiculata, and Achaeta sp. are quite different from one another in shape and position, their histology and ultrastructure are basically the same. These are intestinal appendages, the lumina of which distally end blind and proximally open into the oesophagus. Almost all of the few cells in their single-layered epithelium have a microvillous, cilia-free border at the apex, facing towards the lumen, and basally comprise an extremely extensive labyrinth. The presence of the latter, composed of very thin cell processes, and of numerous mitochondria identifies the organs as energy-producing and -consuming, transportactive structures. Their possible function as a food-moistening organ or osmoregulatory organ is discussed, and they are compared with other intestinal appendages in enchytraeids and other oligochaetes.
3227189|Predation on kamptozoans (phylum Kamptozoa = Entoprocta) is not mentioned in any literature on the phylum. We have found a plagiostomid turbellarian flatworm (Plagiostomum sp.) preying upon Barentsia benedeni in an estuarine sublittoral fouling community in Long Island Sound. USA. Previous records of predation on kamptozoans by some members of two phyla, thobranchs (sea slugs) are reviewed. Predation on kamptozoans by some members of two phyla, Mollusca and Platyhelminthes, is thus now known.
10.2307/3226973|Codakia orbicularis is a large Caribbean lucinid clam with chemoautotrophic bacteria in its gill cells. Its development from spawning up to 2.5 mm shell-length juveniles is described using light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy. Embryonic development, from large eggs with an abundant vitelline supply, takes place within individual glycoprotein capsules up to the veliger stage. After hatching, 48 hours after fertilization, swimming veligers develop to swimming-crawling pediveligers, then to benthic, crawling plantigrades in 16 days without developing an umbonate secondary larval shell. This first phase of metamorphosis is completed without any special environmental stimulation. However, without addition of a suitable substrate, a delay of metamorphosis occurs at the end of the plantigrade stage whereas, in planktotrophic bivalves, a developmental hiatus has been described at the end of the pediveliger stage. When a sterile sand fraction is added, plantigrades enter a second phase of metamorphosis, differentiate gill filaments, a siphonal septum, and a byssal gland, and secrete a fastgrowing juvenile shell, which becomes umbonate. Metamorphosis is completed with the differentiation of the unique excurrent siphon in 2 mm shell-length juveniles. Such a developmental pattern is different from the planktotrophic and from the lecithotrophic developments already described for bivalves. C. orbicularis is a facultative planktotroph with a two-step metamorphosis including long planktonic and benthic stages without significant growth, contrasting with the rapid growth of the post-larval shell. The whole larval and post-larval development occurs without the presence of chemoautotrophic symbionts. Therefore, symbiosis is not necessary to achieve metamorphosis.
10.2307/3226967|Bacteria injected into the hemolymph of crustaceans are rapidly cleared from circulation; many accumulate in the gills, even though this organ does not contain fixed phagocytic cells. In this study, hemolymph from a shrimp or a lobster was mixed in a culture medium with or without bacteria. In all cases, hemocytes rapidly aggregated to form nodules. As nodules increased in size, the number of free hemocytes, nodules, and bacteria (if present) decreased. Nodule formation was inhibited by the addition of the peptide RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp). The morphology of the nodules formed in the presence and absence of bacteria was examined using light and electron microscopy. Within 10 min, nodules were larger than the small blood spaces of the gills, suggesting that in vivo clearance is the result of physical entrapment of nodules and foreign material in the narrow vessels of the gills. This method of removing foreign material from circulation is discussed in relation to other clearing mechanisms in crustaceans.
3227136|This study was undertaken to determine whether intraspecific variation in shell morphology of the freshwater snail Elimia (= Goniobasis) livescens is caused by predator-induced morphological changes. Juvenile snails from 3 populations were grown in the presence of effluent from predatory crayfish feeding on conspecific snails or in effluent from conspecific snails only. Snails from one population, Clear Creek, exhibited a predator-induced morphology; they grew a narrow body whorl when exposed to the effluent from crayfish. Experimental feeding trials with crayfish and snails from Clear Creek were conducted to determine whether a narrow body whorl reduced predation in the presence of the crayfish Orconectes propinquus. In the feeding trials, snails with a narrow body whorl were eaten less frequently than snails with wider shells. However, there was no difference in overall size (length) between snails that were eaten and those that were not. Thus, juvenile snails from Clear Creek exposed to the presence of crayfish were induced to develop relatively narrow shells, which reduce the risk of successful attack by these crayfish. Hence the induced shell morphology is probably a defense against predation by crayfish.
40206236|Here we describe the hatching and morphology of the earliest larval stages of the priapulid worm Priapulus caudatus for the first time. The hatching larva differs considerably from previously described larvae not only in its general body shape but also in its lack of a proper lorica including the typical lorica tubuli. Furthermore, no mouth opening or pharyngeal teeth have formed as yet, and the number and arrangement of scalids differ from that of later larvae. The hatching larva molts and emerges as the first lorica larva. This larva partially resembles earlier described lorica larvae, but there are a number of important differences; the first lorica larva is smaller, and the mouth opening as well as pharyngeal teeth are still yet to form. The second lorica larva is equipped with four rings of pharyngeal teeth; it shows striking similarity to the previously described larva of P. caudatus, i.e., the larva-type 2, only differing in the scalid pattern. We conclude that the first two larval stages of P. caudatus have not been described previously. We suggest that discrepancies between the earliest lorica larvae described here and in earlier publications might depend on sub-speciation or ecophenotypic modification of larvae collected from different localities. Our findings highlight the importance of studying the development of non-model organisms such as priapulids under controlled laboratory conditions.
3227259|The external epithelial cilia and other surface structures of the nuculoid protobranchs Nuculana pernula and Nucula nitidosa were studied. The gill lamellae and labial palps are partly covered with very long cilia. These have a modified slender distal portion, an ordinary metazoan-type basal body, a basal foot. and a single, long cross-striated rootlet. In cilia on the gills of N. nitidosa, the basal foot is thick and attaches to the next basal body directly behind. Unciliated surface areas on the gills, labial palps, and foot are covered with a dense brushborder of microvilli. We observed no specific homologies between the cilia of the protobranchs studied and the epidermal cilia of the enigmatic Xenoturbella bocki, hence the recent hypothesis of a close connection of the latter to the protobranch bivalves is questioned.
3227102|We tested the hypothesis that hooked setae function as anchors in three species of tubiculous polychaetes (Eudistylia vancouveri, Schizobranchia insignis, and Owenia fusiformis). All maintained position within their tubes when exposed to high pressures (up to 100-200 kPa) applied from the posterior direction (where it would tend to cause the tips of hooks to embed in the tube wall). When pressure was applied in the opposite direction, where hooks would not tend to embed in the tube wall, the worms were expelled from their tubes at lower pressures (30-100 kPa). The ability of these worms to maintain their position within their tubes was independent of body size. On the basis of these findings we made three predictions. First, worms that use their hooked setae as anchors should have those hooks located on the body in greatest number and size on the segments associated with greatest worm diameter. Second, as worms increase in size, setal armory should increase in a predictable way. The force that can be applied to extract worms from their tubes by suction feeding fish or wave action would increase as the area subject to suction increases (proportional to the cross sectional area of the tube). Therefore, we predict that setal armory should also increase as a squared function. Third, hooks or uncini should show patterns of wear or loss and/or the worms' bodies should show scars or wounds where the setae are most used (e.g., where worm diameter is at its maximum). All of these predictions were supported by the data and indicate that hooked setae function as anchors for tubiculous polychaetes. This is important for understanding the biology of these animals and has implications for using hooked setae as characters in phylogenetic analyses.
3227193|Natural growth lines in the ossicles of echinoids have been used to estimate age, calculate growth curves, and infer population age-structure. However, few studies evaluate whether these bands are added annually-a critical assumption of the aging technique. We tested whether the banding pattern is annual in Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis. Sea urchins were tagged with a fluorescent marker, released into tidepools, and collected 1 year later. We quantified the position of the fluorescent mark relative to subsequent growth bands. In 30 individuals ranging in test diameter from 14 to 77 mm, and in a series of ~2 mm size intervals, we examined 3 interambulacral plates (aboral, ambital, and oral) and a rotula from Aristotle's lantern. Overall, only 7 sea urchins (23%) added a complete band to all 4 ossicles. In 6 sea urchins (20%) at least 1 ossicle added more than 1 complete band. In many sea urchins, especially those >55 mm in diameter, most ossicles added less than 1 band. The banding pattern in ossicles seriously underestimates age in S. droebachiensis and population parameters inferred from these growth lines are biased. Before using the growth-band aging method in other echinoids, it must be demonstrated that 1 band is added annually for all sizes in a population under field conditions.
3227091| Previous observations on the reproductive biology and gametogenesis of Branchiomma luctuosum (Polychaeta: Sabellidae) were extended in this study, with a description of larval development and of reproduction at the population level, comparing populations from the Tyrrhenian Sea (Ischia, Naples) and Ionian Sea (Gulf of Taranto). Although B. luctuosum is a simultaneous hermaphrodite, producing both male and female gametes in each fertile segment, present observations seem to preclude self-fertilization. Both gametes were spawned under laboratory conditions, and broadcasting was confirmed by sperm structure, which appears adapted for external fertilization. Larval development revealed the shortest pelagic period known for sabellids of similar size and life history. Oogenesis was prolonged and extraovarian. The Ionian population seemed to have a resting period during which eggs, having already begun vitellogenesis, remained at a diameter of about 30 m. After this period, rapid growth was observed: the oocytes reached maximum diameter (140 m) in about 2 months. The spawning period began earlier and lasted longer in the Ionian population, compared to the Tyrrhenian population. This pattern seems to be due to asynchronous vitellogenesis within individuals. Documenting the reproductive features of this species will help us to understand its role as a primary colonizer, since hermaphroditism and a short pelagic phase may produce high population densities starting from only a few individuals. 
4621889|We conducted two experiments to compare the behaviors of predatory crayfish (Orconectes juvenilis) and snail prey (Physa gyrina), with and without exposure to injured-snail cues, in seven different sizes of arena. Individuals in both O. juvenilis and P. gyrina are known to obtain information about predation events from chemical cues present in the water, but the effect of spatial scale on this information or the ensuing interaction has not been previously investigated. We found that crayfish were generally more active in larger arenas, but their response to injured-snail cues decreased as arena size increased. Snails responded to injured-snail cue by seeking refuge, but responded less strongly in larger arenas. Less time was required for crayfish to capture a snail in the presence of injured-snail cue, and there was an interaction between cue and arena size evident in middle-sized arenas. Consumption time was lower in the presence of injured-snail cue but was unaffected by arena size. Based on these results, we conclude that the effects of injured-snail cue are mediated by spatial scale, and this affects the outcome of this predator-prey interaction. Spatial scale should be considered in the design and interpretation of other predator-prey studies, particularly when sensory or motility differences exist between predators and prey that affect how each gathers information about the environment.
40206209|The reproductive cycles of four Mediterranean demosponges (Axinella damicornis, Corticium candelabrum, Raspaciona aculeata, and Chondrosia reniformis) were investigated during 2 consecutive years. Three of the species had annual gametogenic cycles characterized by a single peak of gamete production, but members of C. candelabrum showed continuous oocyte production during the 2 years. The relationship between gametogenic dynamics and seawater temperature varied substantially among species, contrary to the widespread belief that gamete production is associated with seasonal water warming. The annual temperature increase (in June) concurred with oocyte production only in C. reniformis, although maximum temperatures were simultaneous with the production of both oocytes in R. aculeata and sperm in C. reniformis. In contrast, the annual temperature decline in October was associated with both oogenesis in A. damicornis and spermatogenesis in R. aculeata. Spermatogenesis in A. damicornis started after a 5-month period of low-temperature values (December--April in 2004 and November--March in 2005). Likewise, in C. candelabrum, spermatogenesis started after a 3-month period of low-temperature values (November--February), a period concomitant with a slow increase in oocyte production. These findings reveal that sponge species that cooccur and share similar thermal regimes may differ substantially in their timing of gamete production. If we are to predict the future effects of climate change on marine benthic communities, there is an urgent need to improve our knowledge of the species-specific relationship between timing of gametogenesis and temperature, at least for those sponges that are key species in benthic communities.
23016708|Although a few investigations have considered neuronal aspects of bivalve larval ontogeny, the central and peripheral nervous systems of bivalve veligers have yet to be described in detail. This study provides a detailed description of central and peripheral components of the larval nervous system in the Eastern oyster, Crassostrea virginica. Larvae at the D-hinge, newly eyed and pediveliger stages were examined at the light level by means of serial histological section sets. D-hinge larvae were found to have limited neurogenesis with only an anterior gangliar rudiment being present. As development progressed to the newly eyed larval stage, a single apical ganglion and paired cerebro-pleural, pedal, and visceral ganglia were identified, forming a typical bivalve central nervous system loop. The nervous system of pediveligers was similar to that of newly eyed larvae, but added an additional accessory ganglion on the left and right sides, posterior to each gill rudiment. A posterior visceral commissure was also present. Various peripheral innervations were also documented, including nerves extending from the pedal and visceral ganglia in both newly eyed and pediveliger larvae. Furthermore, several neuronal processes, such as the mantle, ventral osphradial, anterior adductor and dorsal esophageal nerves were seen connecting to ganglia. This investigation provides an essential histological characterization of the complex nervous system present in bivalve oyster larvae.
10.2307/3226968|Synaptula hydriformis is a holothuroid echinoderm that retains its young in the adult perivisceral coelom. It is also a simultaneous hermaphrodite and is probably self-fertilizing. Eggs are released from the germinal epithelium into the lumen of the ovotestis tubule, and from there into the perivisceral coelom. S. hydriformis is viviparous: eggs are never released to the outside of the adult organism, but develop internally until juveniles are released. It is also matrotrophic: the young rely on the parent to supply nutrition in excess of that supplied by yolk in the egg. The increase in both dry and organic weight from egg to 8-mm juvenile is in excess of 100x. The additional nutrition is supplied as coelomocytes and molecules present in adult coelomic fluid. Brooded juveniles consume naturally occurring particulates and experimentally introduced 50-nm and 1  microspheres from the adult perivisceral coelom.
3227122|The superfamily Cocculinoidea is a group of marine, deep-water, limpet-like gastropods. Recent speculation surrounding their affinities has concentrated on their placement within the Gastropoda. However, phylogenetic relationships within the Cocculinoidea, especially the monophyly of families and genera within the group, remain poorly understood. Phylogenetic analysis of 31 morphological characters for 15 cocculinoidean taxa and 2 outgroups resulted in a single most parsimonious tree, length=70, CI=0.62, and RI=0.71. Monophyly of the Cocculinoidea, Cocculinidae, and the genera Cocculina and Coccopigya was supported; Paracocculina and Coccocrater were found to be paraphyletic. Character optimization demonstrates that many characters often cited as diagnostic of various taxa, are often homoplastic and/or synapomorphies at different hierarchical levels.
10.2307/3226866|Morphology and ultrastructure of the nymphal and adult spiracular plate of five species of hard ticks (Ixodidae) are described using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Both the surface area and the number of acropyles increase significantly between the nymphal and adult stages and are greater in females than in males. The spiracular plate is divided into four regions: an outer cuticle with aeropyles, a labyrinth composed of cuticular pedicels and chambers, a thick basal plate, and a cellular layer. The pedicels that separate the chambers of the spiracular plate have a large central channel, surrounded by smaller secondary channels. These channels are found throughout the basal plate cuticle and contain a granular substance, probably secreted by the epidermal cells. The basal plate gland is enclosed by the cuticle of the basal plate and is dispersed randomly in the basal plate. This gland has duct and secretory cells, and the duct has a valve-like portion at its apical end where the gland opens at the base of a chamber. The basal plate gland cells and epidermal cells beneath the basal plate contain many free ribosomes, lipid droplets, rough endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria. The glands may be involved in the regulation of water loss and air diffusion.
10.2307/3226948|Nematostella vectensis is one of only 5 sea anemones known to reproduce asexually by transverse fission. Sibling individuals of this species divide at highly variable rates with some individuals dividing rarely or not at all, while others may divide many times a year. Field populations are frequently unisexual, and such populations may be clones derived from a single founder. As individual anemones grow, the asexual fragments produced do not necessarily become larger, nor is the time taken to regenerate a functional oral crown on a fragment related to the size of the fragment. The inclusion of a bolus of undigested food in an aboral fragment may delay completion of regeneration as compared to fragments without a bolus. Increased food intake increases the frequency of fission and results in smaller fragments but does not significantly influence the time fragments take to regenerate. Starvation suppresses fission in individuals but does not totally eliminate it. Multi-crowned anomalies are common in natural and in laboratory populations. Subsequent fission of multi-crowned individuals produces normal, single-crowned anemones and meets the definition of budding, a truly rare phenomenon in sea anemones.
3227139|SEM studies of 21 species of marine bryozoans demonstrated that the abfrontal side of the tentacles bears a row of mono- or multiciliated cells, which are presumably sensory. In stenolaemates, the abfrontal cells, as well as the cells at the tentacle tips and the laterofrontal cells, are monociliated. In the 17 gymnolaemate species studied, each tentacle tip bears at least 3 multiciliated cells, each with a tuft of 5-7 stiff cilia of various lengths. On the abfrontal tentacle surface, mono- and multiciliated cells alternate, but all species studied have multiciliated cells at the base and the tip of each tentacle. In live animals, single cilia perform occasional flicks, whereas the tifts of 7-15 cilia on the multiciliated cells are immotile. Length and number of abfrontal cilia vary between species. Two types of multiciliated, putative sensory organs were found on the introvert of some gymnolaemates. One has an apical knob surrounded by a ring of cilia; the other has an apical tuft of cilia. The ultrastructure of the sensory cells of tentacles and introvert was studied in Rhamphostomella ovata. Our observations on both fixed and living material all suggest that these cells are primitive mechanoreceptors. The few species lacking ciliary structures on the introvert have long proximal ciliary tufts on the abfrontal tentacle surface.
3227244|Although the olfactory capabilities of land snail tentacles have been tested by lesion studies and unilateral exposure of tentacles to specific odors, studies of a carnivorous species suggest that the anatomical similarities of herbivorous and carnivorous land snails may belie a fundamental difference in the way these structures are used to find food. Therefore, we challenged the herbivore. Anguispira alternata, and the carnivore, Haplotrema concavum, to find a stationary food source (carrot and caged young prey snail, respectively) under identical still air conditions. The herbivore traveled a significantly shorter distance to the food, even negotiating a barrier placed halfway between the snail and its food. The carnivore, on the other hand, followed a circuitous, apparently random, path to the food. Subsequent tests revealed that H. concavum readily follows prey slime trails while A. alternata seldom follows conspecific slime trails when a distant food source is available. These results are consistent with what might be expected as adaptations to the usually mobile nature of carnivore prey and the stationary nature of herbivore food plants. The ability of A. alternata to exhibit typical detour behavior is noted.
4621912|We investigated the hypothesis that predation risk affects mating decisions in the intertidal snail Littorina plena in Bamfield Inlet, Northeast Pacific. First, we conducted a field tethering experiment to test the assumption that mating pairs of snails are more susceptible to predation than solitary individuals, and then performed a laboratory experiment to quantify the effect of predation threat on the propensity of snails to form mating pairs. Our results support the hypothesis, in that "mating pairs" were more frequently killed than single snails in the field, and snails were less likely to form mating pairs in the laboratory when simulated predation risk was high (chemical cues from crushed conspecifics were added to the water) than when it was low (no risk cues were added to the water). In contrast to several earlier studies, we found no effect of individual size on snail susceptibility to predation, perhaps because our two size classes were contiguous and snails within them were not dissimilar enough. The results of the behavioral experiment were consistent with this lack of individual size effect on snail vulnerability; both size classes of snails showed a significant and similar tendency to decrease mating when predation risk was high. Taken together, the results of this and recent studies indicate that predators can considerably affect the behavior of littorinid snails, including their movement patterns, feeding, and reproduction. We argue that greater consideration should be given to how marine invertebrates trade off predation risk and activities related to reproduction.
25623064|The present study documents the pace of accessory gland and testes degeneration in the wasp Vespula vulgaris by means of a histological and metric approach, that has not been carried out for social wasps so far. To a certain extent, comparison is made with the degenerative processes of the mucus glands of the honeybee drone. In V. vulgaris, no generative tissue is left by the end of 9 d of age, and so degeneration is a fast process. The three different parts of the accessory glands (muscle layer, gland epithelium, and lumen) change with respect to age. The secretory cells of the epithelium reach their maximum activity during the first days of adult life, which results in a maximally filled gland lumen by 9 d. We also provide, for the first time, a histological study of testes degeneration for this species. At ecolosion, well-defined cystic structures are still visible, whereas at 9 d, it is no longer possible to distinguish different cystic structures. The diameter of the testes decreases with respect to age.
4124899|Recent molecular data suggest that the Porifera is paraphyletic (Calcarea+ Silicea) and that the Calcarea is more closely related to the Metazoa than to other sponge groups, thereby implying that a sponge-like animal gave rise to other metazoans. One ramification of these data is that calcareous sponges could provide clues as to what features are shared among this ancestral metazoan and higher animals. Recent studies describing detailed morphology in the Calcarea are lacking. We have used a combination of microscopy techniques to study the fine structure of Sycon coactum Urban 1905, a cosmopolitan calcareous sponge. The sponge has a distinct polarity, consisting of a single tube with an apically opening osculum. Finger-like chambers, several hundred micrometers in length, form the sides of the tube. The inner and outer layers of the chamber wall are formed by epithelia characterized by apical-basal polarity and occluding junctions between cells. The outer layer-the pinacoderm-and atrial cavity are lined by plate-like cells (pinacocytes), and the inner choanoderm is lined by a continuous sheet of choanocytes. Incurrent openings of the sponge are formed by porocytes, tubular cells that join the pinacoderm to the choanoderm. Between these two layers lies a collagenous mesohyl that houses sclerocytes, spicules, amoeboid cells, and a progression of embryonic stages. The morphology of choanocytes and porocytes is plastic. Ostia were closed in sponges that were vigorously shaken and in sponges left in still water for over 30 min. Choanocytes, and in particular collar microvilli, varied in size and shape, depending on their location in the choanocytc chamber. Although some of the odd shapes of choanocytes and their collars can be explained by the development of large embryos first beneath and later on top of the choanocytes, the presence of many fused collar microvilli on choanocytes may reflect peculiarities of the hydrodynamics in large syconoid choanocytc chambers. The unusual formation of a hollow blastula larva and its inversion through the choanocyte epithelium are suggestive of epithelial rather than mesenchymal cell movements. These details illustrate that calcareous sponges have characteristics that allow comparison with other metazoans-one of the reasons they have long been the focus of studies of evolution and development.
10.2307/3226957|Membranipora chesapeakensis n. sp. was collected on wood substrate in the Chesapeake Bay, Maryland. Colonies are erect, vermiform or ribbon-shaped to bilaminar, with two back-to-back layers sharing one basal cuticle. There is a minute cryptocyst and a beaded gymnocyst; zoids have 14 tentacles and lack knobs or other decorations in their corners. Closest affinities are with M. tenuis Desor, sensu lato. A setigerous collar is present, the first reported among membraniporid cheilostomes. Membraniporids are morphologically similar to the earliest fossil cheilostomes and to the encrusting ctenostomes from which most cheilostomes are thought to have evolved. A setigerous collar, probably generally present in ctenostomes, has hitherto been found only in two aberrant cheilostome genera. The presence of a setigerous collar in a species of Membranipora suggests that setigerous collars may also have been present in early cheilostomes and therefore supports the hypothesis that most or all cheilostomes evolved from ctenostomes.
3701478|Freshly released eggs from four species of the cestode Eubothrium (Eubothrium crassum, Eubothrium fragile, Eubothrium rugosum, and Eubothrium salvelini) were subjected to morphological and morphometric analysis. The eggs of the two freshwater species, E. rugosum and E. salvelini, were ovoid with a lobed embryophore whereas the eggs of the two marine species, E. crassum and E. fragile, were more circular with a smooth embryophore. However, the morphological differences between species were not readily evident to permit their clear distinction from one another. To discriminate species, a forward stepwise linear discriminant analysis, using six of the seven measured metric characters made on the eggs, was used, which gave 100% correct classification of two species, E. rugosum and E. salvelini, and a high proportion of correct classification for E. crassum (98%) and E. fragile (83%). Of the latter two species, one specimen of E. crassum and five specimens of E. fragile were misclassified between the respective groups. The principal characters used in the classification of the species were the width of the egg, the length of the mediolateral hooks, and the width of the oncosphere. To provide more information on the life cycle of each species, the eggs were used in a series of infection trials to identify appropriate intermediate hosts. Experimental infections with freshwater copepods were successful when exposed to the eggs of E. salvelini, partially successful when exposed to the eggs of marine E. crassum with 10% of the copepods becoming infected, but no infections were obtained when the eggs of E. fragile were used.
40206190|The sexual system of two peppermint shrimps, Lysmata bahia and Lysmata intermedia, inhabiting intertidal fossil coral terraces at Bocas del Toro, on the Caribbean coast of Panama, was examined. Dissections suggested that the population of each species consisted of functional males and functional simultaneous hermaphrodites. Males have cincinulli and appendices masculinae on the first and second pair of pleopods, respectively, gonopores located at the coxae of the third pair of walking legs, and ovotestes with a well-developed male portion full of sperm, but an undeveloped female portion. Hermaphrodites lacked appendices masculinae and cincinulli. However, they have male gonopores and ovotestes with well-developed ovaries full of mature oocytes and testes with sperm. When hermaphrodites were maintained in pairs, both molted and spawned eggs (to beneath abdomen) that continued developing after 3 d, demonstrating that hermaphrodites can reproduce as males and inseminate other hermaphrodites acting as females. The possibility of self-fertilization or parthenogenetic reproduction was tested and disregarded, because hermaphrodites reared in isolation spawned oocytes that failed to develop, disappearing from the abdomen after 2d. Males reared in pairs mature as hermaphrodites in <50 d, showing the ability of males to mature as hermaphrodites. These results demonstrate that L. bahia and L. intermedia are protandric simultaneous hermaphrodites, as reported for all species of this genus whose sexual system has been examined. However, the studied species featured a lifestyle, termed "tropical-low abundance," here not recognized previously for the genus; they occur in low abundances in tropical environments, they do not develop symbiotic associations with sessile invertebrates, and they are not conspicuously colored. Information on the sexual systems and lifestyles of more species needs to be examined before these observations can be placed into a comparative context within the genus.
10.2307/3226965|Gills of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii are cleaned by two sets of setae which are thrust back and forth among gill filaments by feeding, locomotory, or other movements of thoracic legs. Setae with a complex, rasping microstructure arise from papillae (setobranchs) on the third maxillipeds and pereopods 1-4, and extend up between the inner layer of arthrobranch and outer layer of podobranch gills. The lateral sides of the podobranchs, beyond the range of the setobranch setae, are penetrated by a field of setae projecting from the inner side of the gill cover. These branchiostegal setae bear digitate scale setules like those borne by the setobranch setae. Although cleaning setae act concomitantly with any type of leg movement, these animals engage in a previously unreported behavior, "limb rocking," whose sole function appears to be gill cleaning. The effectiveness of cleaning setae was tested with experiments in which setobranch setae were removed from the branchial chamber of one side but not the other. Treated crayfishes set out in commercial ponds and a natural swamp habitat suffered heavy particulate fouling on gill filaments deprived of setobranch setae. The pattern of fouling showed that branchiostegal setae also prevented particulate fouling. However, gill-cleaning setae were not effective against bacterial or ciliate fouling. It is concluded that molting is the only escape from epibiotic fouling in P. clarkii. It is suggested that setobranchs of other decapods, e.g., some families and genera of caridean shrimps, are also adaptations preventing particulate but not epibiotic fouling. Thus, indirect gill-cleaning mechanisms, such as setobranchs, are less effective than gill brushing by chelipeds (found in many species of Caridea and Anomura), which has been shown experimentally to prevent all gill fouling. This supports the view that gill brushing is more advanced than setobranch or other indirect gill-cleaning methods, both in the functional and evolutionary sense.
41408394|The purposeful introduction of the land snail Euglandina rosea, which feeds exclusively on snails and slugs, has been implicated as a major factor in the decline of diverse Pacific island land snail faunas. We report on the distribution, movement patterns, and microhabitat preferences of E. rosea in a gulch in the Waianae Mountains, Oahu, Hawaii, because such data will help focus management actions at a local scale to protect native snail populations in areas where E. rosea is established. The Waianae Mountains harbor many endangered or threatened snails, most currently found in isolated habitat patches near the ridges. Conversely, most living individuals (28/29) and shells (46/56) of E. rosea were collected within the gulch, which supported higher densities of other native and non-native snails, and was cooler and more moist than the ridges. Thirteen individuals of E. rosea were tracked (eight directly using a bobbin and thread method, and five indirectly by mark-recapture); most (10/13) moved on average < 2.5 m per week (range 0.1-25.21 m), and all stayed within the gulch. Members of E. rosea preferred leaf litter over open, fern/shrub, or wood microhabitats. There were large differences in the population density of E. rosea over small spatial scales, indicating that there may be places where native snail populations could persist even in areas where populations of E. rosea are established. Identifying areas with differing population densities of E. rosea is critical for not only understanding why some native snail species may be more vulnerable to extinction, but also to locate areas where prdation pressure is low and conservation efforts will be most likely to succeed.
40663840|The Porifera represent one of the only two recent nerveless and muscleless metazoan phyla. Nevertheless, sponges provide behavioral, physiological, pharmacological, morphological, and, more recently, an increasing amount of genetic evidence for a paracrine pre-nervous integration system. Although this system might be derived, it allows us to draw conclusions, on the basis of comparative data, about the origin of the nervous system sensu stricto as found in the eumetazoan phyla. The goal of the present review is to compile recent evidence on the sponge integration systems. Based on this framework, new light is also shed on the evolutionary origin of the eumetazoan synaptic nervous systems, which can be regarded to form an evolutionary biochemical continuum with the paracrine signaling system in sponges. Thus, we can assume that the evolutionary transition from a paracrine-dominated, pre-nervous system to an electrochemically dominated, primordial nervous system resulted in part from compartmentalization effects. As intermediate evolutionary stages, regionalized synapse precursor areas might have occurred within pre-nervous cells, which foreshadowed the highly organized synaptic scaffolds present in recent nerve cells of the Eumetazoa.
3227233|We present here a description of the spermatozoon of Rhopalura littoralis, the first fine-structural study of an orthonectid sperm. The spermatozoon contains a slightly elongate nucleus and two centrioles orientated along the longitudinal axis of the sperm. The proximal centriole bears one rootlet. A single mitochondrion is present in the mid-piece region. An acrosome is absent. The sperm tail is a simple flagellum with 9+2 structure. We consider the orthonectan spermatozoon to be closer in structure to those of Porifera, Cnidaria, and Annelida, than to Aschelminthes and Platyhelminthes, to which orthonectids have previously been allied.
10.2307/3226977|The goal of this study was to better understand the ecology of Macronychus glabratus, a xylophagous aquatic beetle that plays an important role in the conditioning and breakdown of submerged woody debris. In the Illinois and White Rivers of northwest Arkansas, and Harmon Creek in southeast Texas, M. glabratus produced six larval instars. Primary recruitment in Arkansas was during March and April, but first instar larvae were also collected during February and May. Primary recruitment in Texas was during February and March, but first instar larvae were also collected during January and April. Adults made up ~ 10-20% of the population throughout the year in both Arkansas and Texas, indicating that adults are probably long lived. In the laboratory, sixth-instar larvae pupated above the water line in a hollowed oval space beneath bark or in rotted wood. Emergence began ~18 days later. After emergence adults crawled back the water. In the laboratory, adults oviposited and first-instar larvae began to hatch after 22 days. Production of M. glabratus in Arkansas was 1.65 g/m
4621911|The nervous system of the benthic freshwater rotifer, Notommata copeus, was examined using antibody probes, epifluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy, and digital imaging to highlight similarities with other monogonont rotifers. Immunoreactivity to anti-FMRFamide (Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-
40206242|The reproductive anatomy of gastrotrichs is well known for several species, especially for the marine taxon Macrodasyida. However, there is little information on the reproductive organs and the modes of mating and sperm transfer in putative basal taxa, which is necessary for accurate reconstruction of the ground pattern of the Gastrotricha. We present the first detailed morphological investigation of the reproductive system of a putative basal gastrotrich, Dactylopodola typhle, using transmission and scanning electron microscopy, histology, and microscopic observations of living specimens. Dactylopodola typhle is a hermaphrodite that possesses paired female and male gonads, an unpaired uterus with an outlet channel that we call the cervix, and an additional accessory reproductive organ, the so-called caudal organ. We hypothesize that the hollow, secretory caudal organ serves for picking up autospermatozoa ( self- sperm), for spermatophore formation, and finally for transferring the autospermatophore to a mating partner. The allospermatophore (foreign spermatophore) is stored within the uterus where fertilization occurs. We think that the mature and fertilized egg is released through the cervix and the dorsolateral female gonopore, and not by rupture of the body wall. Based on the morphology, we provide a plausible hypothesis for spermatophore formation and transfer in D. typhle. Preliminary phylogenetic considerations indicate that the stem species of Macrodasyida, perhaps that of all Gastrotricha, had paired ovaries and paired testes, an unpaired uterus, and only one accessory reproductive organ.
3701463|The hypothesis of a common ancestry of the lophophorate taxa Brachiopoda, Bryozoa, Phoronida, and the Deuterostomia can be traced back to the late 19th century when Masterman recognized a tripartite organization of the body consisting of pro-, meso-, and metasome, along with coelomic body cavities in each compartment, as characteristic for Echinodermata, Pterobranchia, Phoronida, and Brachiopoda. This idea became quite popular under the name "archicoelomate" concept. The organization of the phoronids, and especially of their transparent actinotroch larva, has for a long time been used as a touchstone for the validity of this concept. As a coelomic lining can reliably be recognized only on the ultrastructural level, this technique has been applied for adults of Phoronis ovalis, which is assumed to be a sister species to all other phoronids. Phoronis ovalis contains only two coelomic compartments, a posterior coelom inside the trunk (metasoma), occupying the space between the trunk epidermis and the digestive epithelium, and an anterior lophophoral coelom inside and basal to the tentacular crown (mesosoma). There is no coelomic cavity inside the epistome (prosoma). This part of the body is filled with myoepithelial cells, which are continuous with the epithelial lining of the lophophore cavity. These cells form a lumenless bilayer and possess long, tiny myofilamentous processes, which are completely embedded in an extracellular matrix. A comparison with data on P. muelleri shows that there is no need to assume three different coelomic cavities in Phoronida, in contrast to the predictions of the archicoelomate concept. At least for this taxon, a correspondence to the situation in deuterostomes can hardly be found.
3227089|Heart xenografts from the pulmonate snail Helisoma trivolvis survive in Biomphalaria glabrata, whereas xenografts from most other pulmonate snail genera are rejected within 3 to 15 days. To test whether xenografts from snails closely related to H. trivolvis were also accepted, specimens of an albino strain of B. glabrata were implanted with hearts from H. duryi, Planorbula armigera, and Planorbarius corneus. The fate of implants was monitored for 180 days by measuring heartbeat and by histological analysis. All 3 types of implants survived beyond the 3 to 15 days required for the complete destruction of incompatible xenografts, suggesting a degree of physiological and immunological compatibility between B. glabrata and these donors. Among the 3 types of xenografts, all from H. duryi survived for the entire 180 days. Fewer grafts from P. armigera and P. corneus survived for prolonged periods, although some still were beating at 60 and 180 days post implantation (DPI) respectively, suggesting that a range of histocompatibility, and perhaps phylogenetic relatedness, with B. glabrata occurs within this group. Paradoxically, the initial hemocytic response by the recipient was strongest against grafts from H. duryi, the most compatible donor, while responses to grafts from P. armigera and P. corneus were mild or did not occur during the first 7 DPI. We used 2 albino strains of B. glabrata in these studies, and the data suggest slight differences in recipient strain compatibility.
4621913|Although the internal phyletic relationships of Spiralia (and Lophotrochozoa) remain unresolved, recent progress has been made due to molecular phylogenetic analyses as well as developmental studies of crucial taxa such as Mollusca, Sipuncula, or Annelida. Despite this progress, the phylogenetic position of a number of phyla, such as Entoprocta, remains problematic, mainly due to their unique morphology, their aberrant mode of development, and their exclusion in most large-scale phylogenetic analyses. In order to extend the morphological dataset of this enigmatic taxon, we herein describe the anatomy of the serotonergic nervous system of the creeping-type larva of Loxosomella murmanica. The apical organ is very complex and comprises six to eight centrally positioned flask cells and eight bipolar peripheral cells. In addition, a prototroch nerve ring, an anterior nerve loop, a paired buccal nerve, and an oral nerve ring are found. Moreover, the larva of L. murmanica has one pair of pedal and one pair of lateral longitudinal nerve cords and thus expresses a tetraneurous condition. Several paired serotonergic perikarya, which form contact with the pedal nerve cords but not with the lateral ones, are found along the anterior-posterior axis. The combination of a complex larval serotonergic apical organ and (adult) tetraneury, comprising one pair of ventral and one pair of more dorsally situated lateral longitudinal nerve cords without ganglia, has so far only been reported for basal molluscs and may be diagnostic for a mollusc-entoproct clade. In addition, the larva of Loxosomella expresses a mosaic of certain neural features that are also found in other larval or adult Spiralia, e.g., a prototroch nerve ring, an anterior nerve loop, and a buccal nervous system.
3701483|This is the first article of branchiobdellidans on blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, in Chesapeake Bay, MD, USA. The ectosymbionts consisted of sympatric populations of Cambarincola mesochoreus and Cambarincola pamelae living on the ventral body surface and in the gill chambers of blue crabs. The occurrence of branchiobdellidans in the upper bay region was documented at ten sites during August and late September 2003. Branchiobdellidans were found on blue crabs following a rainy summer when salinity levels fell below 3 ppt. The blue crabs move into the freshwater estuaries during the summer, where they enter the habitats of crayfishes; however, the mechanism of transfer from one crustacean host to another is not known.
3227087| This study describes and compares laboratory spawning, larval development, and metamorphosis in the patellogastropod limpets Lottia digitalis and Lottia asmi. Both species were dioecious and freely spawned their gametes, which were fertilized externally. Eggs from L. digitalis and L. asmi averaged 155 and 134 m in diameter, respectively. Early cleavage patterns were typical of other patellogastropods. Swimming trochophore larvae had developed 15 hours after fertilization, and ultimately developed into lecithotrophic veliger larvae that reached metamorphic competence at 5.25-5.5 days after fertilization (13C). Food particles were frequently visible in the gut of newly metamorphosed individuals one day after settlement, and adult shell growth was typically initiated within 2-4 days of settlement. Small egg size in L. asmi, relative to other eastern Pacific lottiids, may be directly related to the need for high fecundity in this small-bodied species; however, developmental information is available for relatively few lottiid species. Because broadcasting lottiids do not secure egg masses in safe microhabitats for development, this reproductive mode may have been conducive to their ecological radiation into novel habitats. 
10.2307/3226908|Two of three investigated species of kalyptorhynch turbellarians showed evidence of degenerating nuclei in voluminous terminal flame bulbs (protonephridia). No cell boundaries separated the flame bulbs from the proximal canals. This situation may represent the developmental and evolutionary pathway from the plesiomorphic nucleated flame bulbs of many flatworm taxa to the apomorphic, anucleate flame bulbs found in the majority of rhabdocoel taxa that have been studied.
40663872|The rhynchoteuthion stage of the jumbo squid, Dosidicus gigas, has morphological characteristics similar to the paralarvae of the purpleback squid, Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis, making it difficult to determine the locations, seasons, and conditions where spawning of jumbo squid occurs. In this study, 180 paralarvae of D. gigas were collected off the west coast of the Baja California peninsula and identified by sequencing a 369-bp fragment of the cytochrome oxidase I gene. Of these, 77 specimens, 0.8-6.0 mm in mantle length, were described. Indices based on morphometric ratios were used to determine whether the shapes of different body structures were reliable for identifying the paralarvae. For two ratios, the results appear to discriminate members of D. gigas from those of S. oualaniensis. Additionally, eye or intestinal photophores were not observed in any paralarvae of D. gigas. Morphological and morphometric information provided a valuable basis for the discrimination and identification of these two species.
40206222|The predominance of sexuality in eukaryotes remains an evolutionary paradox, given the "two-fold cost of sex" also known as the " cost of males." [Correction added after online publication 29 January 2009: in the preceding sentence, extraneous words were deleted.] As it requires two sexual parents to reproduce and only one parthenogenetic parent, parthenogens should have twice the reproductive rate compared with their sexual counterparts and their genes should spread twice as fast, if all else is equal. Yet, parthenogenesis is relatively rare and considered an evolutionary dead- end, while sexuality is the dominant form of reproduction in multicellular eukaryotes. Many studies have explored short-term benefits of sex that could outweigh its two-fold cost, but few have compared fecundity between closely related sexuals and parthenogens to first verify that "all else is equal" reproductively. We compared six fecundity measures between sexual and parthenogenetic populations of the freshwater snail, Campeloma limum, during a brooding cycle (1year) across two drainages. Drainages were analyzed separately because of a significant drainage effect. In the Savannah drainage, fecundity was not significantly different between sexuals and parthenogens, even though parthenogens had significantly more empty egg capsules per brood. In the Ogeechee drainage, parthenogens had significantly more egg capsules with multiple embryos and more hatched embryos than sexuals. Taken over 1 year, embryo size was not significantly different between parthenogens and sexuals in either drainage. Given these results and the close proximity of sexual and parthenogenetic populations, it is perplexing why parthenogenetic populations have not completely replaced sexual populations in C. limum.
10.2307/3226907|Musculature of lower worms such as the acoel turbellarians can be readily revealed with fluorescence microscopy and phalloidin-linked fluorescent dyes. In a new species of acoel, the meshwork of body-wall muscles could be resolved using BODIPY 558/568 phalloidin into four sets of fibers; (1) circular muscles that encircle the body; (2) longitudinal muscles, most of which cross over the body midline, having longitudinal orientation only in the anterior third of the body and bending medially to the opposite lateral side of the body more posteriorly; (3) a few diagonal muscles on the anterior dorsal body wall; and (4) special muscles that fan from pores (mouth and genital pore). Compared to patterns of musculature in other acoels that have been studied, that of this new species shows characters that link it with species of the Convolutidae as distinct from other acoel groups and characters that appear to be specific to it at the genus or species level. Such characters could well serve as diagnostic features of taxa of the acoels, which, as soft-bodied worms, are otherwise rather poor in distinctive features.
23016709|We examined the presence and location of small cardioactive peptide (SCP)-like neuropeptides in both the central and peripheral nervous systems of D-hinge, newly eyed, and pediveliger larvae of Crassostrea virginica. Results indicate that SCP-like substances are present early in development (D-hinge larvae), and that presence in the central and peripheral nervous systems increases as the larva develops toward metamorphic competence (pediveliger larvae). In addition, in newly eyed and pediveliger larvae, SCP-like labeling is found in a varying number of neurons within all central ganglia, with the possible exception of the accessory ganglia. Varicose labeling of axons is also documented within the ganglia, commissures, and connectives, as well as in peripheral nerves. Peripheral tissues innervated by axons exhibiting SCP-like immunoreactivity include the velum, foot, esophagus, mantle, and various musculatures. As indicated by the location of SCP-like labeling in various organs and tissues, it is likely that these neuropeptides modulate muscle contraction or ciliary beating in molluscan larvae such as those of C. virginica.
10.2307/3227006|Similarities in features that occur commonly on the shells of many planktotrophic gastropod larvae may be interpreted primarily in terms of (a) shared ancestry, (b) shared adaptive solutions to problems of planktonic existence, or (c) shared artifacts of a basic pattern of early biomineralization. The Paradigm Method of functional inference, developed by paleontologists to analyze structures of fossil organisms, is used to analyze recurring features of unknown function on gastropod larval shells. Four recurring features are shown to fit paradigmatic adaptive solutions to preventing or retarding mechanical breakage at the growing apertural margin of the larval shell. These features are apertural beaks, velar notches, peripheral angulations, and continuous spiral elements of shell sculpture. A fifth common feature on larval shells, discrete crystalline microprotuberances, is inferred to be primarily a non-functional artifact of remote biomineralization and self-organized growth, although secondary functional advantage cannot be discounted. Protective functional interpretations are supported by patterns of shell breakage and repair on larvae from the plankton and by patterns of shell failure in trials subjecting larval shells to artificial mechanical attacks. The ability to withstand mechanical onslaughts of zooplankton predators and to repair damage to the larval shell may be a highly significant means of reducing natural larval mortality.
3227077|It is widely accepted that multicellular animals (metazoans) constitute a monophyletic unit, deriving from ancestral choanoflagellate-like protists that gave rise to simple choanocyte-bearing metazoans. However, a re-assessment of molecular and histological evidence on choanoflagellates, sponge choanocytes, and other metazoan cells reveals that the status of choanocytes as a fundamental cell type in metazoan evolution is unrealistic. Rather, choanocytes are specialized cells that develop from non-collared ciliated cells during sponge embryogenesis. Although choanocytes of adult sponges have no obvious homologue among metazoans, larval cells transdifferentiating into choanocytes at metamorphosis do have such homologues. The evidence reviewed here also indicates that sponge larvae are architecturally closer than adult sponges to the remaining metazoans. This may mean that the basic multicellular organismal architecture from which diploblasts evolved, that is, the putative planktonic archimetazoan, was more similar to a modern poriferan larva lacking choanocytes than to an adult sponge. Alternatively, it may mean that other metazoans evolved from a neotenous larva of ancient sponges. Indeed, the Porifera possess some features of intriguing evolutionary significance: (1) widespread occurrence of internal fertilization and a notable diversity of gastrulation modes, (2) dispersal through architecturally complex lecithotrophic larvae, in which an ephemeral archenteron (in dispherula larvae) and multiciliated and syncytial cells (in trichimella larvae) occur, (3) acquisition of direct development by some groups, and (4) replacement of choanocyte-based filter-feeding by carnivory in some sponges. Together, these features strongly suggest that the Porifera may have a longer and more complicated evolutionary history than traditionally assumed, and also that the simple anatomy of modern adult sponges may have resulted from a secondary simplification. This makes the idea of a neotenous evolution less likely than that of a larva-like choanocyte-lacking archimetazoan. From this perspective, the view that choanoflagellates may be simplified sponge-derived metazoans, rather than protists, emerges as a viable alternative hypothesis. This idea neither conflicts with the available evidence nor can be disproved by it, and must be specifically re-examined by further approaches combining morphological and molecular information. Interestingly, several microbial lineages lacking choanocyte-like morphology, such as Corallochytrea, Cristidiscoidea, Ministeriida, and Mesomycetozoea, have recently been placed at the boundary between fungi and animals, becoming a promising source of information in addition to the choanoflagellates in the search for the unicellular origin of animal multicellularity.
40206219|Larval development of a small ovoviviparous comatulid crinoid, Aporometra wilsoni, was investigated using a population from South Australia. The genital pinnules of reproductive females each contain an ovary, within which are oocytes of various stages. Generally, one or more developing larvae lie outside the ovary, but within each pinnule. Larvae pass through "uniformly ciliated" and doliolaria stages before they exit the pinnule via the genital pore. The doliolariae lack the usual ciliary bands and are unable to swim. Doliolariae dissected from pinnules were followed through metamorphosis to the cystidean stage until the pentacrinoid larval stage. While previous reports on Aporometra have noted pentacrinoids attached to the female, virtually no pentacrinoids were found attached to any of the hundreds of adult females observed during this study. Females sampled from the midreproductive season (September and October) were found to bear >2500 developing eggs and larvae at a time. It appears that emerging doliolariae fall from the female and attach to other substrates to complete development. Aporometra is classified in Notocrinida with the Antarctic crinoid Notocrinus. This classification is based in part on their supposedly homologous larval brooding. However, the reproductive mechanism in A. wilsoni is quite different from Notocrinus, calling into question their current status as sister taxa.
3227187| Evidence for classical neurotransmitters in sea anemones remains controversial. We used high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-EC) and electron microscopical immunocytochemistry to determine the presence of serotonin and precursor synthetic enzymes of other biogenic amines in tentacles of the sea anemone Aiptasia pallida. Using HPLC-EC we found dopamine and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in both tentacles and whole animal homogenates. Antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine -hydroxylase, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, and 5-HT were used with the peroxidase-anti-peroxidase method to reveal positive immunoreactivity to these substances in neurons of tentacles. Immunogold labeling of serial thin sections with the anti-5-HT antibody revealed reactive products in synaptic vesicles at interneuronal, neuromuscular, and neuro-spirocyte synapses. These results suggest that both catecholamine and indolamine neurotransmitters occur in sea anemones in addition to the neuropeptide Antho-RFamide, indicating the presence of multiple types of transmitter substances in an early nervous system. 
10.2307/3227053|Two hairworm parasites of a cockroach in Dominican amber (15-45 mya) are described as Paleochordodes protus n.g., n.sp. (Nematomorpha, Chordodidae) and represent the first unequivocal record of fossil nematomorphs. Previous reports of putative nematomorphs are discussed and shown to be tentative at best. A critical examination of supposed mermithid nematode infections of cockroaches concludes that none of these can, at present, be confirmed.
10.2307/3226929|Technological advances in illuminating, imaging, and recording the movements of small organisms now make it possible to analyze feeding behaviors that were previously misunderstood (e. g., suspension feeding). Presentations in this symposium include some of the best examples of the use of modern videomicroscopy to study suspension feeding, and other examples are found in the recent literature. However, video recordings often do not provide direct demonstration of feeding mechanisms (or other behaviors). Instead, video recordings provide data with which to test hypotheses about feeding. The presentation and interpretation of such data require a forthright accounting of their strengths and limitations. This accounting helps to dispel the common misconception that direct observation of behavior should provide direct insight into feeding mechanisms. I illustrate the usefulness of this accounting with a wellknown example of suspension feeding: capture of small particles by reversal of ciliary beat in ciliated bands of some small echinoderms, hemichordates, and lophophorates.
3227123|Certain digestive cells of the opisthobranch mollusc, Elysia chlorotica, contain functional chloroplasts which they steal from the filamentous alga, Vaucheria litorea. The adult portion of the life cycle of the slug lasts for ~ 10 months and is completely synchronized among individuals. All the adults die each year within a few weeks of each other. We have examined the microscopic morphology of the slugs near the end of the life cycle. Light microscopy demonstrated an absence of chloroplasts in most of the digestive epithelial cells, the appearance of many crypt cells containing residual bodies and an invasion of the blood sinuses by neoplastic morula-like cells as the animals die. Electron microscopy revealed a degeneration of the digestive diverticulum which had several morphological characteristics in common with apoptosis: expansion of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus, DNA fragmentation, formation of primary lysosomes, and condensation of chromatin. These are followed by fragmentation of the nucleus and cytoplasm into autosomes merging to form a large central autolysosome. In addition in the aging slugs, the plastids begin to degenerate until none were left in the digestive epithelial cells and the central autolysosome contained numerous viral particles.
10.2307/3227056|A lack of efficient criteria by which to discriminate among Mytilus spp. in early juveniles (~0.5-5.0 mm shell length) has hindered studies of recruitment, despite the conspicuous ecological roles played by the adults on rocky shores of western North America. We present morphological criteria, visible under a dissecting microscope, that distinguish sea mussels, Mytilus californianus, from sympatric bay mussels, M. trossulus and M. galloprovincialis. The shells of early juvenile sea mussels from southern British Columbia and from southern California have (1) a more posterior dorsal apex and (2) a posterior adductor muscle (PA) attachment larger than do shells of bay mussels from similar locations (M. trossulus and M. galloprovincialis, respectively). Accuracy of these criteria was confirmed by comparing PCR products of genomic DNA of juveniles with those of adults. Additional criteria useful in identification include: (3) the proximity of the PA to the dorsal apex line, (4) the dorsal angle of the dissoconch, and (5) lateral hinge-tooth demarcations. Morphological criteria identified by this study constitute a fast, economical means of distinguishing early juveniles of those mussels and may benefit ecological research on Mytilus.
3227269|Our results suggest that freshwater pulmonates like Lymnaea stagnalis. Radix peregra, Physa fontinalis, and Planorbarius corneus have inherited from their terrestrial ancestors eyes with a spherical, immobile lens with fixed focal-length optics. Unable to change the dioptric apparatus to form an image under water, modifications to the retina had to occur if sharp vision was required. Computer-assisted calculations and 3-D eye reconstructions demonstrate that the photoreceptors in the deeper, ventral pit are in a position to perceive focused images under water. Vision in air, however, would favour photoreceptive cells located in the shallower, dorsal pit. On the basis of histological, ethological, and optical comparisons, we conclude that the eyes in L. stagnalis and R. peregra, species that are known to escape and seek temporary refuge above the water surface, are well adapted to function in water as well as air, but that the eyes in P. fontinalis and Pl. corneus are less modified from those of their terrestrial ancestors. We also conclude that good resolving power may be of greater importance in the aquatic pulmonates than the terrestrial species, since the former have to locate thin, vertical stems of reeds and sedges to ascend in order to reach the surface to breathe.
23016256|A retractable head region somewhat resembling the introvert of sipunculans is a characteristic feature of members of the annelid taxon Fauveliopsidae. The morphology of fauvelopsids is not well known, and additional data might help to resolve their relationships with other annelids and sipunculans. Ultrastructural investigations of the anterior end of adults of Fauveliopsis cf. adriatica revealed peculiar brain and sensory structures. From the neuropil of the brain, two pairs of lobes mainly composed of neuronal somata extend posteriorly into the peristomium and the following segment. The nuchal organs are embedded in the median pair of lobes, as are additional photoreceptor-like sensory structures, the ocellar tubes, which are found at the bases of epidermal follicles that extend deeply into the brain. The retractor muscles of the prostomium are attached to the apices of these follicles, which are lined by tendon and supportive cells. The lumen of each follicle is completely filled with cuticular material that forms a rod. Monociliary sensory cells are present all along the length of each follicle; their cilia extend into the cuticle, and are oriented parallel to the longitudinal axis of the tube. Basally, each follicle forms an ovoid extension that is devoid of cuticular material and densely filled with numerous sensory processesmicrovilli and cilia of bipolar sensory cells. The terminal end of the 40-m-deep follicle is formed by two conspicuous cells that contain numerous densely packed vesicles that resemble pigment granules. The ocellar tubes of fauveliopsids are strikingly similar to the ocular tubes of sipunculids. These similarities may reflect common ancestry or may represent convergent evolution; both alternatives are partially supported by previous morphological and molecular studies.
3227257| Freshwater members of the phylum Gastrotricha were long thought to lack male gametes and to exist exclusively as parthenogenetic females. The surprising 1978 discovery of sperm in the common species Lepidodermella squamata raised the question of how many other freshwater gastrotrichs might likewise be hermaphroditic. In a comparative study of species from across both major families, sperm have been found in every species examined intensively. They were detected in 19 species of Chaetonotidae (from Aspidiophorus, Chaetonotus, Heterolepidoderma, Ichthydium, Lepidodermella, and Polymerurus) and 3 species of Dasydytidae (from Haltidytes, Setopus, and Stylochaeta), characteristically occurring ventrally in single unilateral or (more often) 2-12 bilateral packets. Their shape ranges from filiform (length in Chaetonotus bisacer, ~40 m) to rodlike, spindlelike, oval, and possibly spherical (some in Stylochaeta scirtetica measure only 1 m). With light microscopy, a dense nucleus appears to fill the entire volume of these aflagellate cells. Spermatogenesis within cysts (maximally, 16 sperm/clone) is evidently characteristic of both families, each cyst generating one large residual body. Sperm-bearers display oocytes with sometimes distinctive cytoplasmic elements and a posterior X-organ whose organization can be complex. Evidence supports an unusual life cycle in which parthenogenesis is followed by simultaneous hermaphroditism. These findings may illuminate the reproductive characters as well as ancestry of marine and brackish-water taxa of Chaetonotida. 
40981222|Individuals of the recently described demosponge Thoosa mismalolli are common on Mexican Pacific coral reefs, excavating burrows in living corals and in other calcareous substrata. To better understand the propagative abilities of this sponge, we conducted a histological study over an 18-month period (May 2007-November 2008) to identify sexual and asexual reproductive structures. Members of the species are viviparous and hermaphroditic, with various developmental stages of oocytes, spermatic cysts, and embryos co-occurring in the mesohyl for most of the year. This nearly continuous reproductive activity intensified during the warm season. Fertilization was internal, and embryos developed inside the parental sponge to produce an unciliated hoplitomella larva, characterized by a peculiar siliceous skeleton. In addition to the sexually generated larvae, adults of T. mismalolli formed gemmules for asexual reproduction. Gemmules occurred within the mesohyl during all months of the year, but were most abundant in the coldest months. This combination of sexual and asexual processes enables individuals of T. mismalolli to reproduce almost continuously. This strategy may facilitate both long-term persistence within reefs and effective dispersal between distant reefs.
10.2307/3227054|Descriptions and scanning electron micrographs of the shell, protoconch, radula, and gross external anatomy are provided for four species of cocculiniform limpets collected from hadal depths of the Cayman and Puerto Rico trenches. Of these, one represents a new genus and species, Macleaniella moskalevi (Cocculinidae), endemic to the Puerto Rico Trench. Another, Amphiplica plutonica (Pseudococculinidae), represents a new species from the Cayman Trench of a globally distributed abyssal genus. The original descriptions of the remaining two species, Fedikovella caymanensis (Cocculinidae) and Caymanabyssia spina (Pseudococculinidae), both from the Cayman Trench and type species of their respective genera, contained only poorly reproduced illustrations of portions of the shells, and line drawings of isolated rows of radular teeth. These four species, each apparently endemic to their respective trenches, represent the deepest records of molluscs collected in the Atlantic Ocean.
3227153|The sperms of the Acoela, a group of lower worms, are filiform cells with 2 flagella incorporated into the cell body. Their axonemes can variously have 9+2, 9+1, or 9+0 patterns of microtubules; and singlet microtubules in the cell body can be arranged in axial or cortical positions. An analysis of phylogenetic relationships of acoels based on molecular characters (18S rDNA sequence data) showed that these patterns of microtubules, where known, fell into discrete monophyletic groups. To test this hypothesis, we have expanded the database of sperm characters by examining the ultrastructure of a further 10 species representing 4 acoel families. As expected, the Convolutidae fell into 2 unrelated groups: "small-bodied convolutids" (Convoluta pulchra, Praeconvoluta tigrina, Pseudaphanostoma smithrii) having 9+2 axonemes and cortical microtubules, and "large-bodied convolutids" (including Wulguru cuspidata) having 9+0 axonemes and axial microtubules. Also, as expected, a member of the Mecynostomidae (Paedomecynostomum bruneum) has 9+1 axonemes and axial microtubules. Members of a family that appears intermediate by molecular characters, the Otocelididae, significantly have a variety of patterns: axonemes with both 9+2 and 9+0 patterns (Notocelis gullmarensis) or just 9+2 (the other species), and either axial (Philocelis brueggemanni), both axial and cortical (N. gullmarensis) microtubules, or microtubules that bend between axial and cortical positions along the length of the sperm (Otocelis sandara). Members of the Dakuidae (Daku woorimensis) also belong to this intermediate group, having 9+2 axonemes and axial microtubules, while in a fifth otocelidid (Stomatricha hochbergi), sperm characters are like those of the "largebodied convolutids" (9+0 axonemes and axial microtubules). Characters of sperm morphology generally support the molecular hypothesis of relationships and confirm a suspected polyphyly of the families Convolutidae, Otocelididae, and Actinoposthiidae.
3227213|Ceratal autotomy by the aeolid nudibranch Phidiana crassicornis is common in the field and was induced in the laboratory by mechanical and predatory stimuli. The ceras detaches from the body wall along an autotomy plane located at its basal constriction. Cerata released copious amounts of mucus during autotomy and exhibited a prolonged writhing response that continued for several hours after detachment. Regeneration of cerata autotomized in the field and in the laboratory was documented. Four days after autotomy, regenerating cerata appeared as small protuberances. By day 24 the regenerates acquired their mature structural organisation and vivid colour. The cerata subsequently increased in length and diameter and were indistinguishable from surrounding cerata by 41 to 43 days after autotomy. Regeneration rates of cerata induced to autotomize in the laboratory and regeneration of cerata autotomized in the field were similar, averaging 0.08 and 0.067 mm/day, respectively. The sequence of morphological events involved with regeneration following experimental and natural induction of autotomy was identical. The kelp crab Pugettia producta induced autotomy by holding cerata with its chelae. This crab also fed on autotomized cerata and consumed locomotory and ceratal mucus. Ceratal autotomy may be an important mechanism of escape from this predatory crustacean. Other potential predators including hermit crabs and tidepool sculpins did not elicit defensive behaviour in P. crassicornis. Nematocysts were present in the cnidosacs and their role in defense was investigated. Fired nematocysts were observed in podia of the asteroid Crossaster papposus following ceratal contact but were not seen in the podia of Pycnopodia helianthoides in a similar trial. For P. crassicornis, the cnidosacs may function primarily as a storage device for safe sequestering of nematocysts that could pose a threat to the digestive system. They did not play a major defensive role against the predators tested, but may be important in the field against other predators.
4621914|This study describes a technique to record small (1 cm) distance changes or movements occurring in seawater using a simple electronic circuit and miniature ball electrodes. This low-cost technique was designed to directly measure such changes in a broad range of experiments involving small marine invertebrates while minimizing the mechanical loading of the structures of interest. The circuit detects and amplifies small changes in the resistance of seawater between two electrodes as the distance between them varies; these are then converted to voltage changes. After calibrating the output of the device with known distance measurements, it was evaluated using a test organism by monitoring and recording the body flushing behavior of the sea squirt, Styela plicata. Electrodes were sewn to the tunic at the base of the atrial siphon and changes in its diameter were recorded >24-h periods. Using ~3-cm-tall sea squirts, the distance between the electrodes expanded and contracted with a range of 5.5 mm during rhythmic flushings. Flushes occurred on average every 4.1 min and showed a rapid initial contraction, followed by a slower expansion while refilling. Attaching electrodes to the tunic had little mechanical or behavioral effect; the untouched control specimen had similar flushing rates. The movement monitor circuit is stable, sensitive, and performed well in fullstrength seawater experiments where good spatial and high temporal resolution, low inertial loading, and low noise were required. The technique, as shown here, can be used to record a wide range of animal movements and further suggested modifications of the circuit may suit a broad range of other experimental situations.
3227198|Embryonic development from coeloblastula to fully developed larva was investigated in 8 Mediterranean homoscleromorph species: Oscarella lobularis, O. tuberculata, O. microlobata, O. imperialis, Plakina trilopha, P. jani, Corticium candelabrum, and Pseudocorticium jarrei. Morphogenesis of the larva is similar in all these species; however, cell proliferation is more active in species of Oscarella than in Plakina and C. candelabrum. The result of cell division is a wrinkled, flagellated larva, called a cinctoblastula. It is composed of a columnar epithelium of polarized, monoflagellated cells among which are scattered a few non-flagellated ovoid cells. The central cavity always contains symbiotic bacteria. Maternal cells are also present in O. lobularis, O. imperialis, and P. jarrei. In the fully developed larva, cell shape and dimensions are constant for each species. The cells of the anterior pole have large vacuoles with heterogeneous material; those of the postero-lateral zone have an intranuclear paracrystalline inclusion; and the flagellated cells of the posterior pole have large osmiophilic inclusions. Intercellular junctions join the apical parts of the cells, beneath which are other specialized cell junctions. A basement membrane underlying the flagellated cells lines the larval cavity. This is the first observation of a basement membrane in a poriferan larva. The basal apparatus of flagellated cells is characterized by an accessory centriole located exactly beneath the basal body. The single basal rootlet is cross striated. The presence of a basement membrane and a true epithelium in the larva of Homoscleromorpha-unique among poriferan clades and shared with Eumetazoa-suggests that Demospongiae could be paraphyletic.
23016666|Cnidarians have extracellular matrix, or mesoglea, situated between an outer epidermis and an inner gastrodermis. In this article, we describe the ultrastructure of the mesoglea of polyps of Nematostella vectensis during development and regeneration. The column wall of recently metamorphosed polyps had basal laminae composed of a meshwork of thin filaments underlying each epithelium and a network of unstriated thick (2025 nm in diameter) and thin fibrils (5 nm) decorated with particulate matter. In juvenile polyps with eight tentacles, the system of thick fibrils was concentrated near the gastrodermis. In the column wall and mesenteries of the adult there were bundles of thick fibrils that ran parallel to the myonemes. In regenerating polyps 2 days after transection, the network of thin fibrils and particulate material as well as the basal lamina largely disappeared in the healing part of the oral, but not aboral, half. In the regenerating portion of the aboral half 1 and 2 days after transection, the bundles of thick fibrils were smaller and less organized, and the basal laminae were thicker than in the column wall of untransected polyps. In both regenerating halves, the general organization of the mesoglea of normal polyps was reattained by 5 days after transection. At all stages the mesoglea contained cellular processes that may belong to amebocytes; nucleated amebocytes with a range of shapes were present in the mesoglea of the column wall and mesenteries of adult polyps. Certain features of the mesoglea of members of N. vectensis and Hydra are similar, especially the ultrastructure of the basal laminae, but the fibrillar systems of these two model cnidarians are different. Temporal and spatial differences in the composition of the mesoglea of N. vectensis point to different roles for its components during development and regeneration.
3227131|Early development and metamorphosis of Reniera sp., a haplosclerid demosponge, have been examined to determine how gastrulation occurs in this species, and whether there is an inversion of the primary germ layers at metamorphosis. Embryogenesis occurs by unequal cleavage of blastomeres to form a solid blastula consisting micro- and macromeres; multipolar migration of the micromeres to the surface of the embryo results in a bi-layered embryo and is interpreted as gastrulation. Polarity of the embryo is determined by the movement of pigment-containing micromeres to one pole of the embryo; this pole later becomes the posterior pole of the swimming larva. The bi-layered larva has a fully differentiated monociliated outer cell layer, and a solid interior of various cell types surrounded by dense collagen. The pigmented cells at the posterior pole give rise to long cilia that are capable of responding to environmental stimuli. Larvae settle on their anterior pole. Fluorescent labeling of the monociliated outer cell layer with a cell-lineage marker (CMFDA) demonstrates that the monociliated cells resorb their cilia, migrate inwards, and transdifferentiate into the choanocytes of the juvenile sponge, and into other amoeboid cells. The development of the flagellated choanocytes and other cells in the juvenile from the monociliated outer layer of this sponge's larva is interpreted as the dedifferentiation of fully differentiated larval cells-a process seen during the metamorphosis of other ciliated invertebrate larvae-not as inversion of the primary germ layers. These results suggest that the sequences of development in this haplosclerid demosponge are not very different than those observed in many cnidarians.
23016258|Because of their reproductive biology, spiders are extremely promising subjects for testing hypotheses on sexual selection. Further, their genital morphology provides useful characteristics for taxonomy. However, the structure and functional morphology of the genitalia of members of most spider groups are poorly known. This is especially true for members of the Haplogynae. In this article, the female genitalia of three oonopid species are described, using light and scanning electron microscopy. The male palps are also briefly described. The female genitalia of all these three species do not correspond to the description of haplogyne genital systems given in the literature. Receptacula are lacking in the genitalia of Opopaea deserticola and Zyngoonops sp. Sperm are present in the uterus internus of members of these two species, indicating that fertilization occurs there or in the ovary. Females of Zyngoonops sp. have a pouch that possibly holds appendages on the male endites during copulation. Modifications on the endites might allow males to exert copulatory courtship. A secretory sac was found inside the receptaculum of Gamasomorpha lutzi. Previous studies on oonopids with the same type of genitalia showed that the sac contains sperm and that it can be discarded during copulation. Spermatozoa were also found inside the uterus internus of members of G. lutzi. A sclerite in the uterus wall of females of all three species might serve to lock the uterus during copulation in order to prevent sperm from getting into it, as suggested for a variety of other oonopids. The male palps of O. deserticola and Zyngoonops sp. are simple. Furrows on the emboli of G. lutzi suggest that males use the palps as copulatory courtship devices. The present study reveals the complex genital morphology of three species belonging to the little known spider family Oonopidae, and provides new insights into the function of their genitalia in the context of sexual selection.
3227252| The appendicularians, planktonic tunicates, possess a specialized, external filtering system that captures food particles <1 m in size. In this work the alimentary canal of Oikopleura dioica has been studied by serial sections of whole animals and ultrastructure. The gut includes a dorsal esophagus, a bilobed saccular stomach, and a curved intestine, divided into vertical, mid-, and distal intestine (or rectum). No multicellular glands or cellular proliferative centers were found. Three main cell types were recognized, ciliated microvillar cells, globular cells and gastric band cells, with specializations reflecting different physiological roles in the various regions. Ciliated microvillar cells, the most diffuse, are considered to be involved in food propulsion, fecal pellet formation, absorption, and nutrient storage. Pinocytotic features and vacuoles suggest that absorption of macromolecules and intracellular digestion occur in the globular cells of the stomach and rectum. The large gastric band cells of the left lobe have typical features of intense protein synthesis and probably produce enzymes for extracellular digestion. Diffuse interdigitations of many cells enormously increase the plasmalemma surface and may be involved in liquid/ion exchange. Despite the apparent structural simplicity of the gut epithelium, O. dioica efficiently processes food to fulfill the energy requirements of its exceptionally rapid life-cycle. 
3227218|The oral surface and mouth of juvenile asteroids and echinoids with indirect development forms on the lower left side of the larval body, thus establishing a new axis of body symmetry. In contrast, the juvenile mouth of ophiuroids and holothuroids develops from the larval one, and the larval and adult body axes roughly coincide. Explaining how two such disparate modes of development arose in evolution has been a perennial problem for echinoderm biologists, but recent observations on larval budding in asteroids may provide an answer. The juvenile mouth of asteroids forms near the base of the left posterolateral lobe. The posterolateral lobes are also the principal site of bud formation in asteroid larvae that propagate asexually, and buds form mouths. By accelerating the development of oral and ectodermal structures belonging to the bud, and combining these with internal organs derived from the parent larva, a composite individual could be constructed with the same orientation and positioning as the juvenile rudiment in asteroids. Whether this also explains the position of the juvenile rudiment in echinoids is a more complex question, depending in part on whether asexual propagation is derived, and restricted to asteroids and ophiuroids, or is more primitive and hence widespread among stem echinoderms.
